e CONCORDIENSIS . : ; : : :;::: ~ - = :_ :: :== . : ::~ = Games with R.I. State . and R. P. I. VOLUME 39 NUMBER 7 NOVEMBER J I, 1915 PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY

UNION UNIVERSITY ·CH~t\.RLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL.D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses : 1. Ceur•e• leading to the degree of A. B. CI.ASSIC.At, CouRSit A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B- This course may be pur sued by candidates who satisfy the require1nents for admission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on entrance and required for two years. In other respects Course B. is identical with Course A. 2. Vour•e leading to the degree of Phe B. LATIN-SCIENTili'IC Cou:asE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading to the degree o:f B. s. Sci~N'l'Il!'IC CouRsE- This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leading to 1he degree of B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRsE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRSE- This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE- This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. G. CourtJea leading to graduate degrees. CouRSE LEADING TO DEGREE or M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRs~ LEADING TO D£GRU or M. S. in E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE L£ADING To DEGREE 01 Pu. D.- This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M. S. in E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNltS, Secretary, Schenectadyp N. Y. L. V·. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925· W ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE, Founded 1838-A complete reorganization has been effected during the past year. Largely increased Hospital facilities have been assured with teaching services both in Medicine and Surgery, students having im- mediate responosibility under supervision. The laboratory staff has been increased and the courses re-arranged to confonn to improved methods. With these changes, it is believed that the Albany Medical College is prepared to furnish instruction which will meet the highest demands of tnodern medical education. Admission Requirements: Each candidate for ad~ mission must present his Medical Student's Certi- ficate fron1 the Examinations Division of the Board of Regents of the State of New York and must furnish evidence of the satisfactory completion of one year's study, in a recognized college or scien- tific school, of physic·s, chemistry, biology and French or German. Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., has arranged for such a course. Tuition: The charge for tuition is $160.00 a year and $5.00 for matriculation. There are no extra fees except for rental of microscopes and labor- atory breakage. ·The academic year begins Sept. 27, 1915. All in- quiries and other cotnmunicationoS should he ad- dressed to - THOMAS ORDWAY, M. D., Dean, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to i!• use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. ts three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $to; tuition fee, $110. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. WATSON, Secretary, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: AI.J!RED B. HuES'tED,. Secretary, 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. SUITS PRESSED 25c. DRY CLEANING AND PRESSING. Suits Called for and Delivered. 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate CHAS COOPER, No. 1 Landon Terrace Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate VOL.: R. F Spirited ·Unior Institut~ score of way and The Tn frequent used th . occas1on with a v a team t R. P. I. the Gan ced stroJ Union of the £1 change < which ( and gav<: Late i fron1 lJn Yard line eight yat P. I.'s ni: cessful p \B one\ ( the 20 y Yard line Put the l Rosecran and twice Whistle b

The Concordiensis VOL. 39 NOVEMBER 11, 1915 NO.7 R. P. I. MAKES STRONG STAND Spirited Battle Results in Victory for Union. ·Union defeated Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute on Alexander Field Saturday by a score of 7 to 0. It was a stiff battle all the way and R. P. I. displayed unusual strength. The Trojans were fast and shifty, made frequent gains through Union's line, and used the forward pass successfully upon occasion. Union was forced to be content with a victory by such a small margin from a team notoriously weak all season because R. P. I. played just as good football as did the Garnet and throughout the game evin- ced strong determination, drive, and spirit. Union's touchdown came on the first play of the foUJrth period as a result of an ex- change of punts the previous quarter in which Girling clearly outkicked Johnson and gave Union a good chance. Late in the third period Girling punted fron1 lJnion's 42 yard line to R. P. I.'s 15 yard line. Lockman ran the ball back eight yards. A penalty put the ball on R. P. I.'s nine yard line and after three unsuc- cessful plays, Johnson of R. P. I. punted. \Bone\ Gardner caught the weak drive on the 20 yard line and carried it to the 16 Yard line before being tackled. A penalty put the ball on Rensselaer's 11 yard line. Rosecrans battered his way for nine yards an~ twice more attempted to gain. The Whistle blew with the ball within two feet of R. P. 1. 's goal. On the first play of the next period, which was Union's last down ' Goff sent the back field through on a skin- tackle play, and himself carried the ball be- tween center and guard for touchdown. Rosecrans kicked the goal. R. P. I. showed fight from the start. On the kick-off Rosecrans sent the ball to Rens- selaer's ten yard line. Johnson, quarter- back, ran it back almost 30 yards. Lockn1an O'Hara went five more, but R. P. I. had to punt. After two plays Rosecrans tore off a 15 yard run that put the ball on R. P. I.'s 36 yard line. Roof and Goff tnade first downs on line bucks and Girling wheeled around right end for a 23 yard run that put the ball on R. P. I.'s 3 yard line. There followed a deadlock like the trench fight- ing in northern France and after four un- successful atten1pts to gain., Union lost the ball. Johnson punted. After a couple of graceless aerial flights of the ball, a punt fell in I~ocl<:man's ar1ns on R. P. I.'s 20 yard line .. J ol1nson ran 28 yards and brought the Cherry and White rooters to their feet. Girling intercepted a forward pass and punted out of danger. Then Rensselaer ad- vanced steadily to Union's ten yard line on a series of runs by Johnson and forward passes. A drop kick went astray and the period ended after TJnion had advanced ten yards. Girling punted on the first play e>f the second period and R. P. I.'s attack could

10 THE CONCORDIENSIS. not net ten yards. Soon afterwards Girl- ing took the ball from Union's 24 yard line to the 38 yard line. After a couple of scrin11nages Girli ng punted. 1'he punt land- ed on the 20 yard line. 1'hree plays later J ohnso~ punted back. The punt went about half the distance of Girling's, for Rose- crans caught it on ·R. P. I.'s 43 yard line. /A. steady advance netted 20 yards and from the 1·2 yard line, Tubby essayed a drop-kick for goal which was wide. R. P. I. gained 20 yards and then fn1nbled. Rosecrans soon tried another drop--kick that did not go over and till the end of the half the play see- sawed around R. P. I.'s 30 yard line. Rosecrans kicked off at the start of the second half and R. P. I. advanced 40 yards. On the 20 yard line Johnson failed to reg- ister a drop kick. Then Union began its as- sau.lt which o.-esul ted in the touchdown. Girling punted to Johnson. On the next play, Rosecrans intercepted a forward pass. Girling and Roof alternating went 15 yards on three plays. Then Girling tore lose with a run around right end that put the ball on R. P. I.'s 15 yard line. He evaded the line behind good interference, got by full- back and one halfback and was finally tack- led by Johnson, R. P. I.'s plucky quarter. This spectacular run of thirty yards was made void by a penalty of 15 yards imposed on Captain Jenkins for holding. Union could not gain again, and Girling punted. Then came the s.eries of plays that gave Union a touchdown. In the fourth period the ball zig-zagged up and down the :field about evenly. Neither team could get closer than 30 yards from the opposite goal. TJnion's use of the forward pass was bad throughout the game, not a single one being successful. Rosecrans was hurried in all his drop- kicks by Rensselaer 1nen breaking through the line while the back field could not get started for the same reason. It seemed a simple matter when the line held to make gains, but even then the interference was shaky and inefficient and the back carrying the ball was apt to \cut in\ and leave his interference too quickly. Rosecrans work- ed wonderfully on offense and defense while Roof, Girling, and Goff all played hard, strong football. Johnson star~red for R. P. 1:. The line-up : UNION. R. P. I. ~oynihan ------------------------ Frank Left end. Bowman ------------------------- Mellin Left tackle. Price --------------------------- Connell Left guard. Gardner -------------·-------- MacKenzie Center. DuBois ----------------------------Firth Right guard. Jenkins -------------------------- Conant Right tackle. Avila McDonald Right end. Goff Johnson Quarterback. Rosecrans ----------------------- O'Hara Left halfback. Girling ---------------------------- Kriel Right halfback. Roof -------------------------- Lockman Fullback. Score by Periods : Union _______________ o 0 R. P. I. ______________ o 0 0 0 7-7 0-0 Summary-Touchdown, Goff. Goal from toU:chdown, Rosecrans. Substitutes-Union: Hay for DuBois, Hunt for Avila, Nash for Price, Anderson for Roof, Roof for Ander~ son, DeBois for Nash. Rensselaer: Van Houghton for Mellin. Referee-McDonald, Brown. Umpire - Reedcof, Springfield. Head linesn1an, Bird, Yale. Time, fourteen minutes. ROSI Union Tut yards . aga1nE ga1ne high a north\ kick re yards year r R. P. Unic score. the ba line, b touchd played time sr aga1n Island~ It w boot s; ch.angE Island' on the back a cross be . cnsp a eros sec the tee bleach( blew t] crans 1 Murph g-ain b1 on the: on Rhc Roof p first do for a t sl<irted crans n ball we:

UNION COL, . . t.EGE LIBRARY. THE CONCORDIENSIS ll ROSECRANS' DROP KICI{ DEFEATS· RHODE ISLAND. Union Misses Opportunities for Larger Score. Tubby Rosecrans booted the pigskin 47 yards for a field goal Saturday, October 30, against Rhode Island State and won the ga1ne for Union. It was a remarkable kick, high and true, aided and abetted by a strong northwest wind, and established a drop kick record for Alexander Field. It was three yards short of the drop kick record of last year n1ade by Cusack of N. Y. U. against R. P. I. Union should have won by a much larger score. Six times the Garnet tean1. carried the ball within Rhode Island's twenty yard line, but each time lost the wallop when a touchdown was im1ninent. The Garnet played in bunches, spasmodically, at one time showing remarkable football ability, and again falling down dismally before Rhode Island's strong defense. It was in the third quarter that Tubby's boot saved the day for the Garnet. An ex- ch.ange of punts put the ball on Rhode Island's 35 yard line. Girling lost two yards on the next play, and Rosecrans dropped back and lifted the ball prettily over the crossbar. It was good football weather, crisp and keen. A strong north west wind crossed the :field, giving the advantage to the teatn defending the west goal. The bleachers were well filled when the -vvhistle blew that sent the ball hurtling from Rose- crans to Lagerstadt on the 15 yard line. Murphy sped a;round left end for a good g-ain but fun1bled and the ball was Union's . on the 35 yard line. Girling went by Randall on Rhode Island's left end for eight yards; Roof plunged into the line and registered a first down. Moynihan was thrown by Gibbs for a three yard loss. Once more Girling sl<irted left end for eight yards and Rose- crans tnade first down through the line. The ball was on Rhode Island's 12 yard line in the :first five minutes of play. A fumble, recovered, lost a yard; Roof n1ade two through right guard, and Girling added five more. With the ball on the eight yard line a forward pass went astray and Rhode Island got the ball. In three downs the visitors could not ad .. vance, and Le Boeuf punted. It was a short kick and Rosecrans got it on Rhode Island's 35 yard line. He went ten yards before be- ing tackled. Goff and Girling made first down. Three attempts failed to advance, and Rosecrans dropped back for a place kick. It was against the wind from the 33 yard line and Tubby put too much English on the ball, sending it into the face of the win<i, short and to the r:ight. Rhode Island started in on the 20 yard line and made a :first down and seven yards on the second before the quarter ended. Le Boeuf punted to Rosecrans who shot back fifteen yards to Union's 42 yard line. Moynihan sped around right end for seven yards and Goff earned first down on a fake kick play. Immediately Girling ripped off 20 yards around left end and put the pigskin on R. I. S.'s 20 yard line. Further advance was made difficult by a penalty and once more Tubby essayed a place kick, which was a wee bit out of place. O'Brien ba_-ought the ball back to the 21 yard line. O'Brien car- ried the ball ten yards through tackle. Le Boeuf punted and Goff ran the ball back to the 45 yard line. Girling tore loose for a spectacular 25 yard run, but Union could not gain further and after a forward pass ground- ed, it was Rhode Island's ball on the 20 yard line. Three line bucks failed and Goff caught Le Boeuf's punt on the :fifty yard line. A forward pass, Goff to Avila, netted 30 yards, but soon after, another pass was in- tercepted by Gibbs. The half ended with the ball on R. I. S.'s 30 yard line. Le Boeuf kicked off to Moynihan on the 20 yard line and Moynihan carried the ball 25 yards. Girling vvas forced to punt, two

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS double pass plays gained first down for R. I. S., but Le Boeuf had to resort to his kicking ability. Then Girling returned the punt. In fact he rather over-returned it. Fro1n the 20 yard line he kicked 60 yards down the field and the ball rolled within two yards of R. I. S. 's goal before being stopped. trhree plunges did not gain and Le Boeuf once more punted. The kick was short, land- ing on the visitors' 35 yard line. Then after Girling sustained a slight loss, Rose· crans lifted the ball over the goal. After that Rosecrans kicked off, and Rhode Island lost the ball. A fumble spoiled a good chance for Union and the period ended after Le Boeuf garnered six yards. Continuing its line pounding tactics R. I. S. n1.et sturdy resistance and after a punt over Union's goal, the ball was put in play in Union's possession on its 20 yard line. A punt by Girling n1.ade a nice advance for Union for on Rhode Island's first play Roof grab bed a fumble. An incomplete pass gave R. I. S. the ball, but Moynihan inter- cepted one from O'Brien and another pass fron1 Goff to Moynihan gained 25 yards. The ball was on Rhode Island's 35 yard line. Union was penalized 15 ywrds for holding and Girling gathered in a long spiral pass from Goff and turning carried the ball 30 yards to Rhode Island's 15 yard line. Anoth- er pass by the san1e collaborators put the ball on the 10 yard line, but there Rhode Island held. After two unsuccessful at- tempts at first downs by either team, the period ended. Rhode Island played a strong defensive garne whenever the ball was within its 20 yard line. Up to that point Union seemed .to be able to gain at will, and made enough dis- tance to score three touchdowns. The visit- ors confined their attack aln1ost entirely to line bucking and a few cross bucks coupled with a double pass that worked the first two tin1es it was used and failed thereafter. The sterling work of Moynihan and Avila on the ends prevented much open play by Rhode Island. Avila and Moynihan not only nailed their men regularly, but gained well on forward passes and end 1runs. Rose- crans and Gir ling featured in the back field while Roof's defensive work in backing up the line was excellent. O'Brien of Rhode Island did most of the work for the visitors and did it well. The line-up : UNION (3) R. I. S. (0) Moynihan ----~----------------- Randall Left end. Bowman ---------------------- Mcintosh Left tackle. Price ---------------------------- Becker Left guard. Gardner __________________ _. ________ Gibbs Center. DuBois -----------------·-------- Lushier Right guard. Jenkins ------------·--- ----------- Dodge Right tackle. Avila --------------------------- Dunham Right end. Goff ---------------------------- O'Brien QuaJrterback. Girling ----------------------- Lagerstadt Left halfback. Rosecrans----------------------- J\1urphy Right halfback. Roof -~-_,.--- ... ---..,-- . ..,.-=.,.,--=.,-,......,= Le Boeuf Fullback. Score by Periods. Union -------·--------0 0 3 0-3 Rhode Island State ___ o 0 0 0-0 Goal from :field-Rosecrans. Substitutes -(Union) Anderson for Roof, Roof for An- derson, Hay for Jenkins, Nash for DuBois, Powell for Price; (Rhode Island State) Brigh tn1an for Randall. Referee-Camp\\\ bell, of B~rown. Umpire-MacDonald, of Brown. Head linesn1an-Bird, of Yale. Time of periods-. Twelve minutes each. SOj Ballst For tourec Mana: first c ance' and tl ed apJ of uni ably d ers w1 Just a an enc ers cL confus 'rhe q such a: were s it was caused rend en quite a Mr. best n1 sured < certs. Afte1 songsh enjoyal .. for Sch The 1. Ter Cor 2. EaQ \--' 3. Mal 4. Ken 5. Voc 6. Sele

THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 SONGSTERS MAKE THEIR BOW. Ballston's Younger Set. Distracted by Con- flagration .. Forty-four members of the Musical Clubs toured to Ballston Spa last Friday night in Manager Santee's private car and gave the first concert of the season. The perform- ance vvas well received by the Ballstonians, and the instrumental selections really earn- ed applause, though there was a slight lack of unity in the Glee Club numbers, prob- ably due to the fact that many of the sing- ers were making their initial appearance. Just as the 1nale quartette started singing an encore, about half of the. juvenile listen..,. ers clambered from their seats in much confusion and started on a run for the door. 'rhe quartette was quite -disconcerted at such an outburst of feeling, but their spirits were speedily revived when they were told it was the ringing of the fire bell which caused the excitement, and they had really rendered a very excellent selection. It was quite a fire, by the way. Mr. Mo01ra's solo was undoubtedly the best nu1nber of the evening, and he is as- sured of great success in the coming con- certs. After the performance, the musicians and songsters were treated to a dance, and an enjoyable hour was spent before the car left . . for Schenectady. The program was as follows : PART I. 1. Terrace Song ------------ Ludlow '56 Come Now to the Campus _Rranklin, '83 2. Eagle Nest ------------------Bordwell Mandolin Orchestra. 3. Mah Punkin Sue ------------- Widener Glee Club. 4. Ken-Tuc-Kee ----------------- Weidb Banjo Club. 5. Vocal Solo ----------------- Selected Mr. Moora. 6. Selections from \Bohen1ian Girl\ _Balfe Mandolin Orchestra. Intermission-Polonaise Cook. PART II. Chopin 7. Go 'Long, Mule, Go 'Long ____ Dixon Glee Club. 8. Trio- (a) Angels' Serenade --------Braga (b) Zallah -------·-------- Loraine Violin, Mr. Stein; Cello, Mr. Parker; Piano, Mr. Greene. 9. I Love Thee ------------------ Harker Male Quartette. Messrs, Moora, Schuyler, Faust, Williams. 10. Popular Medley. Mandolin Orchestra. 11. Old King Cole ---------------- Nevin Glee Club. 12. Alma Mater ------------- Ludlow, '56 Combined Clubs. Those who made the trip were: C. S. Parker, W. C. Vosburgh, of the faculty, E. W. Moore, E. F. Goggin (coach) ; of the 1916 class, H. B. Gardner (leader of Glee Club), A. Hooper (leader of Mandolin Club), R. L. Embree, H. C. Dikeman; 1917 class, H. R. Knight, P. W. Downs, C. T. Lester, A. C. Mead, and H. J. Williams. 1918-R. A. Schuyler, G. H. Beckett, E. M. Cameron, Jr., P. S. Rorlon, L. H. Frasier, C. C. Bowman, P. Hoag, A. K. Reid, I. R. Stein, J. C. Younie, P. C. Brown, H. L. Cook, J. Taylor, and S. W. Talbot. 1919- C. S. Moora, ]. H. Potter, R. S. Clark, H. W. True, W. G. Croucher, ]. G. Greene, V. N. Philip, C. De LaVergne, J. F. Davidson, B. T. Taylor, W. C. Kelsey, F. A. Shields, Jr., and R. Faust. Manager Santee con- ducted the trip. CLASSICAlf CLUB TO MEET. The Classical Club will hold its first Ineet- ing on the evening of Novetnber 16. Dr. l(ellogg wiJ.l,read a paper, the title of which has not yet been announced. During the vveek the co1nmittee will n1ake out a pro- gram for the following year.

14 THE CONCORDIENSIS UNDER CLASSES EAT GOOSE EGGS IN THIRD BATTLE ON GRIDIRON. The freshman football team held the sopho- lnore eleven to a no-score tie in the third game of the Frosh-Soph series. The con- test was the final event in the underclass competition held on election day, and was full of interest from start to finish. The freshmen were in position to score several times, but lacked the necessary punch, while '18 also had chances that it let slip. The ball changed hands frequently, the de- fense of both teams being so good that neith- er could make a continuous gain · of more than thirty-five yards. Reed, May, Simmons and Glockner starred for '19, while Reeves, Tell and Beckett did the best work for the sophomores. Reed ---------------------------- Brown Left end. Smith ----------------------------- Reed Left tackle. Green --------------------------- F1risbie Left guard. MacCready --------------------- Hochuli Center. William -------------------------- Glenn Right guard. DeRose ------------------------- Yordon Right tackle. Simmons (Capt.) ---------------- Madden Right end. Glockner------------------------ Mattern Fullback. Cassidy ----------------- Beckett (Capt.) Right halfback. Beards 1 y _______ -- ___________________ Tell Left halfback. Beaver ---------·----------------- Reeves Quarterback. Substitutions-1919: McGarty for Green; Lyman for MacCready, May for \tVillian1, Parker for DeRose, Gillespie for Beardsly. Referee, Conklin. Umpire, Stoller. Head linesman and timekeeper, Roof. Time o£ periods, 8 minutes each. ELECTION DAY CONTESTS . Sophs Win Supremacy by Fair Margin. The sophomores defeated the freshmen by the score of 46 to 38 in the election day track and field events. The score would not have been so close had not the freshmen fought hard at the end and captured 20 points with the tug-of-war. The Sophs easily won the relay 1race which gave them 10 points, and most of the first places also went to them. Tell, '18, did the best work of the event ' gaining fierst in both the running high and running broad j un1ps and second in the shot put. Stebbins, '19, was the best man for the frosh. He crossed the line first in both the 440 yard dash and the mile run. He covered the mile in 5 minutes and 2 seconds. Allen, '18, won the shot put and Taylor, '18, won the 100 yard dash. Following is the summary: 12-pound shot-Allen, '18, first, 5 points; Tell, '18, second, 3 points; Witbeck, '19, thi,rd, 1 point. 36 feet, 6 inches. 100 yard- dash-Taylor, '18, first, 5 points; Newman, '18, second, 3 points; Blakeslee, '19, third, 1 point. 10 4-5 seconds. Mile run-Stebbins, '19, first, 5 points; Hance, '18, second, 3 points; Morris, '18, third, 1 point. 5 minutes, 2 seconds. Running high jump-'f'ell, '18, first, 5 points; Beckettt, '18, tied, 2 points; Abbe, '19, tied, 2 points. Five feet 2 inches. 4L10 yard dash-Stebbins, '19, first, 5 points; Newman, '18, second, 3 points ; 'ray·· lor, '18, third, 1 point. 56 1-5 seconds. Running high jurnp-'rell, '18, first, 5 points; Abbe, '19, second, 3 points; \Vit~ beck, '19, third, 1 point. 17 feet 8 inches. WILLIAMS FROSH RIDE NO MORE. There ~~ill be no n1ore horse-racing at Willian1s among the freshmen. They have promised their professors not to use any more \ponies.\ Local Latin Department, please ~ake note. • 'l ' .... D l)un ]~oven Death neck s Charlt Mrs. I this ci1 from o the bu I-Ie wa placed everyt] The bt cord, c; was re: several War1 School course Niedica years c ACAD: L Ther~ four un at presE class is rolln1en four Ui enginee ed in th of 1916 and for class of neers a1 the clas neers ar ' In 1919 and for1 reason f studentE

• 'l ' THE CONCORDIENSIS 15 DEATH OF DUNCAN WARD. l)uncan C. \iV ard, Jr., died at 11 :15 .o'clock 1~ovember 4, at his home, 1422 State Street. Death resulted from a gunshot wound in the neck sustained October 16, when he was in Charlton at the home of his grandmother, Mrs. Riley. vV ellington E. Moore, also of this city, was with hin1 and in passing a rifle from one to the other, it was discharged and the bullet struck \V ard in the spinal cord. I-Ie was brought to the Ellis Hospital and placed at once upon the operating table and everything possible was done to save his life. The bullet, ho,vever, had severed the spinal cord, causing almost complete paralysis. He was removed from the hospital to his home several days ago. Ward graduated from Schenectady High School and last year took a pre-medical course here, intending to enter Albany Niedical College this fall. He was twenty years old. I • t • \. ~ ' o • 0 ' ' ' • ' ' \• • I' ACADEMICS AND ENGINEERS EVEN- LY BALANCED AT UNION COLLEGE. There is a remarkable uniformity in the four undergraduate classes in Union College at present. The number of engineers in each class is slightly over one-half the total en- rollnlent.. Of the four hundred and fifty= four Union students, fifty-six per cent. are engineers and forty-four per cent. are enroll- ed in the academic department. In the class of 1916, fifty-eight per cent. are engineers and forty-two per cent. academics; in the class of 1917 fifty-eight per cent. are engi- neers and forty-two per cent academics; in the class of 1918 fifty-five per cent are engi- neers and forty-five per cent. academics, and, in 1919 fifty-three per cent. are engineers and forty-seven per cent. acadetnics. The reason for the larger percentage of academic students in the freshtnan class is that twelve · per cent. of the class are pre-medic students vvho take only a one year course here before entering the n~edical college. Union College is known throughout the country for its wonderful engineering courses but the above figures go to prove that the acadetnic courses are very nearly as popular as the . . engtneertng courses. CHEMICAL SOCIETY HOLDS SUCCESSFUL MEETING. Vosburgh '14 Tells About His Research. The second meeting of the Union College Chemical Society proved very interesting. It was held Monday evening in the chem- istry lecture room. Mr. W. C. Vosburgh addressed the meeting with \Studies in the Rate of Diffusion of Salt in Water.\ Mr. Vosburgh has been engaged in these studies during the past two yeaJrs and had, many re- sults to explain. A lively discussion fol- lowed the presentation. The meeting was tnost successful. A culinary committee was appointed to take charge of the appetizing end of the next meeting. GUNMEN ORGANIZING AT UNION. J\!Ionday noon in student meeting the prop- osition of organizing a Rifle Club at Union was brought up. About twenty-five students and several of the faculty have signified their desire to join the organization. At present the prirne movers are arranging the prelimin- aries preparatory to getting the club into shape. All persons desiring information concerning it may obtain the same frotn Hooper '17 or R. E. Taylor '16. Unless money is shorrtly forthcoming, the Syracuse crew, which always makes a good showing at the Poughkeepsie meet, will not start next spring. An attempt will be made to assess each student $2.50. Doc l\1ac: \As soon as you fellows quit act- ing like· fools, I'll begin.\

16 THE CON,CORDIENSIS. THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly PubHshed by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., a.g Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Richard E. Taylor, '16. ASSISTANT EDITOR Nathaniel A. Finch, '16. LITERARY EDITOR Avrom M. Jacobs, '16. ASS'T LIT. EDITOR James B. Taylor, '16 STAFF ARTIST Alwyn G. Levy, '18. ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. M. Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 F. \V. Porter, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Rudolph W. Schwartz, '17. Howard A. Glenn, '16, Business Manager Ernest W. Mandeville, '17, Ass't. Business Manager Subscription: $2.00 per year, payable in advance. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N.Y. ON TO HAMILTON. Hamilton is but two days off. Again we repeat our old slogan: \On to H'amilton !\ Everyone in college, who is financially able is going to Clinton on Saturday. Last year we defeated the Buff and Blue team on Alex- ander Field, but the year before that, full of confidence, we went up to Clinton to return defeated, not conquered. To repay charge for charge, pass for pass, yes, even inch for inch is what Captain J enk's men are deter- n1ined to do on Saturday. To do this, it is an absolute necessity that the student body be back of every move which the team makes. If we lack faith in those men who have worked night after night during the past season, who have strive~ to attain the highest point of efficiency possible, victory can not be possible. Faith is the making of everything. The team has faith in the student body to back it up-· are you doing your part? Hamilton plays her best against Union, as R. P. I. did last Saturday. She saves her hest for Union. To defeat Union is the high .. est ambition of the undergraduate at Clin~ ton. Every student of that. institution will be back of the team every tnoment. Let every student at Union be more than back of Union, let him play the entire game with Union. If the editor of the New York Times is correct when he wrote: \At this time the soul of a college is not her great sons but her football, and how great, how powerful, ho,v dominating that soul is, is showed by the football team's record.\ What can you say about Union's soul? Have you helped to the best of your ability to make that soul hold its place on Saturday? As the soul of \Cor- nell is too great for Harvard's,\ fellows, let's make the soul of Old Union superior in all respects to that of Hamilton. We have faith in our men and that is loyalty to Old Union. That loyalty has been showed by those men who have been out in practice or to watch .practice during the we-ek, by those tnen who have stood the blovvs, knocks, and charges of Coach Daw- son's men, so as to whip a strong eleven into form. They will play the game of the season, they will exert every last bit of strength in then1, they will fight not over- confident, but determined to win. Tomorrow night is the last big campus tneeting of the year. Everyone out! Satur- day's spirit and loyalty will be portrayed at that m.eeting. How great that spirit is, de- pends upon every last true son of Old Union. Union must win! Everyone on his toes !--On to Hamilton! i l i ! . ~ ' ' ~ \' S~TO befc prof gest and . s1gn a ch tion. has L ar secu . 1ng puri advc irair fittit ed. seve ents or .P. forrr Con~ bod) (1 by I DEI Da1 Tl lian1. will· ques outs date tive butt; Tl Will

THE CONCO.RDIEN$IS 17 THE PROPOSED RIFLE CLUB. Whether the pen is. mightier than the s·word is not the question we desire to put before you. The question is concerning the proposed Rifle Club. Last Monday the sug- gestion was brought up in college meeting and already over twenty-five students have signified their desire to form the club. Such a club will be under the auspices of the N a- tiona! Rifle Association of America which has clubs in institutions as Williams, R. P. L and Colgate. An attempt is to be made to secure the armory for practice, for no build- ing is available on the campus for such a purpose. This is one of the few means of advancing different branches of military training in institutions of learning and quite fitting is it that Union should be represent- ed. The moven1ent has the co-operation of several of the faculty, as well as many stud- ents. If you are interested, see R. Taylor or A. Hooper, the two men who have the formation of the Rifle Club in charge. The Concordy urges the interest of the student body. (The editorials for this issue were written by David F. Chapman '17.) DEBATING RELATIONS WITH WILLIAMS INAUGURATED Daniel Websters to Discuss Prohibition. The debating season will open with Wil- lian1s on December 10. The debate, which will be held in Schenectady, will be upon the question of national prohibition. The try- outs will be held tomorrow. Each candi- date will speak six n1inutes on the affirma- tive of the question and four minutes in re- buttal. This is the first time Union has debated Williams and although Williatns is unus- ually strong, Union should be able to put out a good teatn as eighteen men. have reg- istered so far for the try-outs_, three of whom were members of last yea.r's team. The debate will be held early and will prob- ably necessitate the postponemen. t of the inter-class and Allison-Foote debates until after Christmas. A SANCTUM SANCTOR1fM. At last the Concordy has an office in the P1ress Club rooms, picketed off, full o·f tables and particularly businesslike. Thanks to our noble manager·s and assistant editors' efforts, the few fortuna.te fresh- men may, at last, be admitted t(} the bar. The receptacle for assignments rnust have been dragged from the old College Street building. We think it might ba.ve been some unfortunate but worthy in.structor's. However, my memory drifts to- Out of oblivion, sprung into sight Holy J ehosophat! Gosh! What a sight. And I am a muse to write- Made in a minute, You'd know it full well But what it was made for The future may tell. Proud young designer In future we'll hear Of your hard won success As a C. Engineer. l\1eek young co-partner The hammer who wields We like your ambition But try other fields. But now that it's done Would craven undo, When the toil was so gireat And the toilers so few? -Anon.

I ! ' j 18 rrHE CONCORDIENSISr Speaking of the w.k. yes or no question some ... time before election, F. P. A. sugge>Sted a suff- starter for the political machine. What it evid- ently needed was a good supply of yasolene. Satyrical Swift would have put it this way: Colyuming 1s our idea of unalloyed idleness. \Ve were not especially perturbed by the slump in the· stock market after Morgan's operation. THE BALLADE OF SER BONIEPARTE. (With the reappearance of Doc Mac's bone man we are inspired to reminiosce on Clarice's history as it may bave been.) A bounie knyght was Bonieparte, A well-wight lad was he; In alle Englonde an Skottlonde too No boldar barne nar he. An he did lovye a Nut Brown may de Frae ou' the South Countrie, An set ou' for to court thys mayde Her bryde-groom for to be. \I sey na nay,\ bespake the mayde, \Bot owre the weddynge days·, Do me a dede o doughetieness In right-guQ.e knyghtlie waye.\ Ser Bonieparte ~han girt his loin An lap uppon his stede, An rode him upp an rode him doon, Bot ner a doughetie dede. Than upp an tuk a 'Sailor schip To sail upon the se- 'For,\ quothee, ''Mair vayliant dedes Ar don uppon the se.'~ The schip it saynke ten fadotn deip U ppon a foreyne mayne, An Bonieparte whilst swymming wysht Tha' he wa' bairn agayne. Sam sauvages naymed \Indiaynes\ Our knyght fyshd frae the se~ An brot him in the wilde-wode deip Bye olde Scheinayctedie. An on the Mowhawke's bonnie brae-s Theye stude him be a tre An swapt him wi' theyre tommiehawckes Tylle he lay doon an dee. And he lay and lay and lay there, for many, 1nany years And his epidermis left hiln from his ankles to his ears. Then one bright day when Doctor Mac was stroll~ ing blithely gay He walked on Bony's bony part to Bony's great dismay. And now poor Bony sheepi~Shly hangs up in hygiene class An dreams o Bonnie Skottlonde an his Nut Brown Hielande Lass. Doc Mac made no bones about summarily re~ moving the b. m. from Scotia H. S. FAMOUS SAYINGS MODERNIZED. \On with the pants; I am un_confined !\ yelled Shea of Princeton when he left his trousers in the arms of a Williams tackler. We wonder if the furry border on milady's skirt should be called a furbelow? THIS ONE DIES HARD. Sotne of them aren't fur belew the knee just at present. Try This On Your Piano. WHEN IT'S PANSY TIME IN OKLAHOME. By Irvin Berlene. Biggest hit of the season! Sung by Al Jilson in the \Midnight Riot.\ We were sailing along and the creamy moon Saw my love for you, rna cherie So I pack my grip and take a ship Back to that little gray hotne where yau await me. \Vhe Oc I wa W' Ther ]u: And Wl as ro Va: a tOVI and i tarily Then years CflSlS stron; Ly h tional train ribly sen tin cartoc numb1 Juli sonat< the l fame ( other throat cess e.g satilit~ that h ator o tng mt comm: princii ciety lllore ~ playin 1 of Ke) ficient who h slangy ried tl seen. was fa fashior ahead 1

THE CONCORDIENSIS 19 CHORUS. \Vhen it's pansy titne in Oklaho1ne Oom! I wantabe! Pah! · I wantahe! I want to settle-down, settle-down, in a home Where the sun goe-s down at six fifty-three Then we'll take a little star-dust Just to make the pans1es grow And call it I--erland! Who was it that spoke of our popular mustc as rot-tin1e? SMASHING THE FOOTLIGHTS. Week of October 25. Van-Ole Ly Howe delights to hover above a town and swoop down with his travel pictures and horrible comedy whenever he can momen- tarily nose out the burleycue-s and legitimates. There came a sameness to Ole Ly's pictures many years ago, but he successfuily weathered the crisis of movie competition and now is going strong again-for the most part better then ever. Ly ha-s reached the highest standard in educa- tional productions for the screen and, though his train rides and swiftly growing flowers are ter-~ ribly time-worn, he must be given credit for pre- senting many new and worth-while ideas. His cartoon comedy is interesting, but the slap-stick numbers are nauseating. Julian Eltinge is not as good a female imper- sonator as he was several years ago when he took the Lamb's Gambol by storm and s.prang into fame over night. Success has for some rea-son or other brought a very masculine chubbiness to his throat and neck. Always scoring his greatest suc- cesse-s in the provinces, Eltinge aired his ver- satility to a very friendly audience and showed that he is still about the best female imperson- ator on the stage-which, by the way, is not say- ing much. The supporting company was good, and commanded fully as n1uch of our attention as the Principal. ·Marie Chamber-s, in the role of a so- ciety tnodiste, is beautiful and would be much lllore so if she were unaware of it. Mark S1nith, playing opposite her, is the precise counterpart of Keystone Fatty Arbuckle, which is saying suf- ficient of his natural cotnedy ability. Jane Oaker, who hid her true person in the disg-ui-se of a slangy young woman fron1 the derni-n1onde, car- ried the part better than anyone we have yet seen. Ruth Gartland, working opposite Eltinge, was far from what she should have been. As a fashion show, \Cousin Lucy\ is several numbers ahead of \Vogue.\ It give-s us peculiar pleasure to be able to an- nounce a good burleycue after all these weeks of watchful waiting. \Hello Paris,\ while it does not approach the musical comedy strata as do many of the productions on the Columbia cir- cuit, was nevertheless worthy of a place in the Big Wheel. George Clarke wrote the book of the \nonsensical farce\ and then went ahead and played the leading comedy role-and did it well. As a slap--stickist, he is the best of the season. There was nothing especiaily startling in the beauty sjde of company, but there was also noth- ing especiaily terrible about it, and for that we are duly thankful. We sincerely hope for more bur- leycues of this type, but experience teaches us not to _expect another for upwards of two months. PROCTOR'S.-The versatile magtctan, who played during the last half, was probably the best act in a little more colorless week than usual. We refuse to talk about the rest of it. MUDHAWK-We pride ourself on being the only review in town that sturdily maintained a short life for the Crane-Shirleys. They were a poor company playing at a poor location-their hasty exit wa-s inevitable. Perhaps the manage- ment of the Mudhawk will some day learn that the only paying proposition for the theater is burleycue. * * * * Week of November 1. VAN-It was our good fortune to meet an old acquaintance in George F. Abbott, who played one of the leading roles in \Some Baby,\ and from him we gleaned some inside stuff on this rather vulgar comedy with its tiresome mix-up of babies. The road company which played here was suhstituted for the original in New York some week or ten days before the completion of its run and thus we find a new kink in the managers' campaigns to hoodwink the provinces. J effereson de Angelis, who was slipped in to fiii Frank Lalor's place, is a player of the old school, rank- ing con-siderably below Lalor, and somewhat in- clined towards the vulgar in his work. Anne I-Iarnilton held up the leading female role in ad- mirable manner. John Keefe, an old stock actor, bore up well under the part of Judge Sander- son. Abbott is a recent graduate of the Univer- sity of Rochester. Now that he is on his way we will say that he was in no way suited to play the leading part assigned him. The poster·s which advertised the \Peasant Girl\ dwelt lovingly upon the fact that the com- pany was direct from the 44th Street Theater. It may or may not have rehearsed there. With the

20 THE CO,NCORDIENSIS exception of Edith Thayer, who did substitute in the lead for Trentini a number of times, the com- pany was the most pitiful gathering of actor waifs foisted upon us in many weeks. How an actress of Thayer's calibre can afford to jeopardize her popuJarity by working with -such a cast is fat be- yond our ken. Frank DeShon, who played op- posite Thayer, for some time after the company left Broadway, was really in a class with the star, but he was extricated before the production got here because he was evidently too good to waste on the provinces. The advance notices on the \Peasant Girl\ placed it on a par with the \Spring Maid\ and the \Merry Widow,\ also written by Leo Stein, but its New Y or~ premier rudely felled the critic'S' hopes. We wish we might have seen the production with its original leads-Emm.a Trentini and Clifford Crawford. AS FOR THE REST-Two weeks' sn1ashing simmered into one prevents us crushing the bur- leycu e and vodeville the way we should. In a 11utsh.ell, Proctor's maintained its sad tradition well, and the burleycue returned to its old low level. We overheard two very young American-s talk- ing about things theatrical the other day. \Say said one of them. \Don't call it 'teeater,' say 'theeater l' \ We enjoyed the following conglomeration, which appea.red in The Gazette on Friday last: WEEGHAM SILENT ON BASEBALL DEAL. Ithaca, Nov. 4.-Dr. Albert H. Sh8.rpe, head coach of the Cornell football eleven team, de·- c:lared tonight that he expected the hardest game of the season with Michigan tomorrow. And while we're in a journalistic vein, the Truth- fttl Tribune recently headlined: \Mme. Schumann= Heinle Sings Songs.\ Yes, and fire burns and water lvets, etc. . LOGIC. Heavens and earth! and mercy sake! OUR amateur ostanding is now at stake. Fred T. Dawson, a well known prof, Played with the scrub team some time ago. The hero in Leonard Merrick's \Conrad in S earcll of His Youth\ entered a theater and sat d()wn between a woman with a mustache and a y()uth who was trying in vain to raise one. Votes for women! \I shall be in Mexico City by New Year's!'' grimly announces Carranza. Gaby DeslyoS should spell it with two B's. The mysterious seventh point in that Sterling gum is evidently the question point. \Typhoon Kills Forty People,\ runs a head- line. Heavens! What has our Typhoon been up to? Editor the Woman's Page, New York Journal. Dear Nan Brinkley: I went out with a gentle- man friend last night and drank one gallon of champagne. Do you think I did wrong? Anxiously yours, A. B. A. B.-You probably did. Well, it'.g as sensible as most of them, isn't it? THE POOR ENGINEER WAS DRUNK. The parochial school fire will be rigidly inves- tigated and the committee will report that the children who lost their lives were undoubtedly intoxicated at the time and therefore entirely to blame for the disaster. So it goes. We are going to send a contrib to Popular Mechanics suggesting that stilts be used as a cheap and efficient 'Substitute for second floors in houses. Some of their monthly suggestions are better than that. POOR BRICKLEY. Poor Trinity Brickley ha-s, as the Springfield Re- publican says, succeeded Harry LeGore of Yale as the football goat of the hour. The point of the lively scrap that he has started seems to lie in the question as to whether or not a student who turns his athletic ability into money by giving physical instruction in a summer camp, or by selling signed articles to new-spapers, is just as much of a pro- fessional as Christy Mathewson would be should he re-enter college. The complexities of the sit- uation are too great for us to suggest an unravel- ling, but one thing seems fairly evident. A stand- ard agreement -should take the place of the pres- ent muddled condition of affairs-an iron-clad law that every college should follow or be boycotted. Save the working girl. Do your Christ- shopping early. Gra Tht Willie: ered ~ Bar V/e traffic on. Wh: No, G The mon u campu WHA' We way L It occ have b RAV ] J. Spea: the Be: up Sat1 ially di: tache t \Touch And tempt, you nu: Perh:: is maki Since not put Onto

THE CONCO,RDIENSIS 21 Grarttland Rice says: The Shaving Stick Circuit is still good for 50-50. Williams tdok the soapy chute, but Colgate lath- ered Yale. Barabark wag, that. V/ e wonder which side of the State·· Street traffic posts that safety zone ios supposed to be on. AD INTEMPERANOE WAGS. What's the matter with your wrist? Football? No, Glenn's. The much-wagged quotation concerning Solo- mon in all his glory might also be applicable to the campus off. WHAT WOULD COLYUMING BE WITHOUT THE SUFFS? We have often wondered at the unconcerned way London has been taking the recent air raids. It occurs to us that her militant training may have had considerable to do with it. RAWTHAH BULLY, DON'TCHATHINK? I'd like to be the svelte young man That dwells in fashipn plates And pose upon a mountain top In evening dress and gaits. Speaking of fashion plates, we cannot overlook the Beau Brummelle in Rhode Island State's line- up Saturday. VVhen he emerged from an espec- ially disarranging scrimmage and teased his mous- tache back into shape, we waggishly murmured, \Touch-down!\ And the ass next to us said with pi.tying con- tempt, \Aw they're twenty yards from the goal, you nut!\ Perhaps we are a nut. They say the colyumn is making us nutorious. Since the subject has turned to football, why not put it Onto Hamilton! FRESHMAN YELL Rah ! Rah ! Rah ! Ma! Ma! Ma! Pa! Pa! Pa! Help! NITE. -Ex. FINAL DATE CHOSEN FOR SOIREE. Europe's Orchestra Will Furnish Music for the Occasion. December 10 is the date of the Sopho- more Soiree. The change from the date previously decided on was caused by the conflict of condition exams. Europe's or- chestra will dispense sweet and syncopated sounds for the occasion, and Chairman Mc- Cauley announces that decorations and food wil11rival those of last year's Prom .. The dance will continue from nine till three with an intermission at midnight for dinner. Tickets, which will cost $3.50, will be on sale after Thanksgiving. PLANS FOR Y. M. C. A. BIBLE STUDY. An entirely new policy has been adopted by the Y. M. C. A. for its Bible study classes this year. During the first tertn only freshmen will take part in these courses, fifteen groups being formed from the class. Each group will be composed of about twelve men. Ten of these groups will be formed fron1 fraternity men, the remaind- er from the neutral body. Each fraternity group will be led by an upper classman of the same crowd while four or five neutrals will be included with it. The remaining five groups will be tnade up enti1rely from the neutral body. The book that met with such approval last year-\Student Standards of Action\- will again be used. Dr. McKean will con- duct a normal study class for the fifteen leaders Monday afternoons. The leaders in turn will meet classes at their own conven- . tence. After January the old system of fraternity classes will be revived. P.resident Hadley of Yale in his annual report, spoke favorably in respect to the question of having military training in the colleges and universities of this country.

22 THE CONCORDIENSIS FACULTY GAMBOLS WITH THE RAC.QUET. Dr. Richmond Preserves Intact the Glory of the Clergy. With Prexy Richmond, M1r. Parker and Mr. Goodrich surviving the second round, the semi-finals of the fall tournan1ent of the Faculty Tennis Association will be played this week. The tournament started some- time ago with the following members of the faculty playing in the first round: Dr. Richmond, Dr. Hoffman, Mr. Goodrich, Dr. Hill, Mr. Fobes, Dr. Kellogg, Prof. Taylor, P1rof. Garis, Mr. Callan, Mr. Parker, Dr. Ellery, Mr. Upson, Prof. Stewart and Dr. Chase. Mr. Goodrich, Dr. Hill, Prof. Taylor, Mr. Callan, Mr. Parker, Mr. Upson and Dr. Richmond came out victorious in the first round. The matches are played on the basis of the best two out of three sets. MUSICAL CLUBS TO SING AT CAPITOL. Largest Club Ever Will Give Concert in Centennial Hall. The Musical Clubs will give a concert at Centennial Hall in Albany tomorrow even- ing. It is expected that nearly the whole club will be carried, and they will be treated to a dance after the performance. All Union students are invited to shake their feet with .AJbany's fairest ton1or1row night. The pro- gratnme will be the same as was rendered at Ballston. PLANS FOR HOCKE·Y RINK FORMULATED. Two Possible Sites to Chose From. A hockey team at Union,-so long a dream,-is now likely to come true within a short time. Several students, who are in- terested in the sport, have been working on the scheme for son1e time. The main difficulty in the establishn1ent of hockey here has been the absence of any good place to play the game. Two sites · for an ice-field have been proposed and the necessary surveys made. One plan is to dam the college brook above the woods near Lenox Road, and with a little excavating form a small artificial lake. The other plan is to build a clay rink in the open field back of the Phi Deita T·heta house. In the \Vin- ter the water V\rill be run in. and the rink frozen frotu the bottotn up. . ot1 L .11.1 A~, II I Iii I;) 'il\' ( t;Nf.c; 1 4!1JiEiV~J ~ - IV c..·tl f I RADIO CLUB ORGANIZED. Electric Sparklers Meet With Professot Upson. The Union College Radio Club held its first n1eeting in the electrical laboratory on October 29. The constitution, drawn up by a con1mittee appointed by the Press Club, was adopted, and officers were elected. The object of the club is to further radio con1n1unication and to co-operate with the Press Club in the exchange of press mat .. ter. The officers elected for the ensuing year are: Professor Upson, faculty adviser; James Schmidt, '17, president; Leslie Up- hoff, '18, vice-president; Edwin Schab be~ har, '18, secretary-treasurer; Glenn Mercer, '16, chief engineer. Schabbehar has been ap~ pointed chief operator by the faculty adviser. The present club will include eight char· ter members: Prof. Upson, Soler '16, 1\!Ier .. cer '16, Schmidt '17, Mattern '18, Newell '18, Schabbehar '18, and Upho-ff '18. Twelve other students have al1ready signified their intention to try out for the club. A sufficient addition at the rear o£ the electrical laboratory has been pro- vided. The new apparatus which is now being installed, will be in operation within a few weeks. It would be greatly appre- ciated if those students who are interested would report in1mediately to Mercer, Schn1idt, or Schabbehar, to aid in the con- struction work. T: be r P.lV ed i . vv1re ENC Fow Tr ober . 1ng c Dt -pape Diar Dr Sal at comt prog: Nc uncle - can _ also 1 n1ent ing t] . in ar A~ An Af Thj li.t niE Ai An~ 'Ne In· snovv iT~· .ttrr v At· B

1'HE CONCORDIENSIS 23 The next regular meeting of the club will be held in the electrical laboratory at 7 :15 P. M. Friday. All s.tudents who cure interest- ed in radio ·communication or have any \vireless ·ability are urged to he present. ENGLISH CLUB RESUMES SESSIONS. Foundation of Eliphalet N ott and John Howard Paine Gather. The English Club opened its season Oct- ober 18th holding a social and business meet- ing at Wash burn Hall. Dr. E. E. Hale presented an interesting . paper entitled; \Extracts from My Father's Diary While a Student at Harvard.\ pr. Francis I-I. Fobes and Mtr. Albert J. Salathe were elected to membership, and a committee was appointed to arrange the program for this season's work. No definite plans were made, but it is understood that the club is to study Ameri- can Literature during the winter. It will also hold the usual Christmas tree entertain- n1ent, present a play in the spring, and dur- ing the year co-operate with the Press Club in arranging lectures and entertainments. A gust And just NOVEMBER. A fleeting flake of white, Then a sweeping cloud blots out the star- li.t night; A frost And lost 'Neath. ice the brooklets flow; In the morning earth is n1uffled close in snovv; Winter is on. -Hamilton Lit. lVIagazine. 'rime was when little college teams Would quake with fear, and pale At thoughts of playing bigger ones- But now they wallop Yale. -N. Y. Evening Journal. \SHINING IN THE DISTANCE THE LIGHTS OF CLINTON LIE.\ Two hundred men and them some are go- ing to Clinton on Saturday. Be there with- out fail to wear one of the new garnet and white caps to be sold by the Press Club. You wil have an opportunity to buy \grind-. ers\ and arm bands on the train. The band, a cannon, and fireworks go with us. The \U\ will be formed in a new way. Twelve special songs and a wonderful team ! Why, nothing can stop us! ! Special arrangements have been made to procure theater tickets for all neutrals; such arrangem.ents for fraternity men will be made by their respective crowds at Hamil- ton. A great big party; join in! HERE'S THE SCHEDULE. Leave Schenectady CN. Y. C. & H. R. R. station) 10 :30 A. M. Arrive at Utica, 12 :15 P. M. Electric car to Clinton, 1 :00 P. M. Arrive at Clinton, 1 :45 P. M. Game called, 2 :30 P. M. Theater parties in Utica, 8 :15 P. M. Leave Utica (return trip), 12:00 P.M. Arrive Schenectady, 1 :45 A. M. Fare: Schenectady to Utica (round trip) $2.00; Utica to Clinton (round trip) 25 cents. Total, $2.25. FRATERNITY MEN PRACTICE TERPSICHOREAN ART. Sigma Phi, Phi Gamma Delta and Delta Phi held dances Saturday after the game. Phi Delta Theta ente1rtained at a week-end house party on the same date. On October 30th the Phi Alpha society held a dance at the Locomotive Club. Many out of town guests were present and the dance was considered a wonderful success. Good punch was served and it is thought that the dance will be repeated after Christ- lnas.

24 THE CONCORDIENSIS. 1919 PEE-RADES TO GLORY. Largest Assembl~y of Notables Ever Gath- ered at Union. Saturday afternoon the assembled multi- tude which lined the streets of Schenectady witnessed the annual freshman pee-rade. Chai~rman Loughlin and his capabie assist- ants deserve great credit for one of the most successful prades that Union has ever had. The procession started promptly at 1 :30 o'clock, headed by President Wilson and Mrs. Galt in their car of state, marched down Union Avenue, over to and up State, and finally over N ott Terrace to the campus. Safety First! SAVE YOUR TEETH First, Last and All the Time. BEST Office in Sc-henectady for Skilled Service, Honest Advice- and Reasonable Prices. Hill Dental Co. 452 State Street. The Uhlans, headed by Marshal von Hin- .denburg, delayed the march to Alexander Field; but, when Tilly threatened to set his dog on them, order was resumed. Miss Lena G. Euster shocked the populace by flirting with the G. E. strikers; but the deportment of her beautiful charges from Skidtnore was perfect. The Royal Rensselaer Rooters and the Plattsburgh Pickets were realistic; Villa and Ca~rranza were fierce; and Uncle Sam, in spite of all his present troubles, was life-like. A score or more of other char- acters, in various styles of dress and undress, added to the gaiety of the occasion. Yes, Therese, it was some Pee-rade. Pay your subscription before December 1 st. $2.00 after that date The best is Gioscia' s Orchestra 302 Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Y. Telephone 1452-R \ IT'S JERSEY That's All You Need to Know About. ICE CREAM - ,,, Pho: -

r s a t John L. Manny & Bro. LEADING TAILORS OF EASTERN NEW YORK. 38 THIRD STREET, TROY, N.Y. We Display 500 Styles of English and Scotch Woolens. 100 References fron1 Prominent Citizens of Schenectady. We rebate to all customers favoring us with patronage their traveling expenses ''The College Photographer'' GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 190S 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 E. W. MANDEVILLE, '17 CoHeat«t Representnive NEAR BARNEY'S 1908 1914 1915 The Wallace Co. \Schenectady's Distinctive Store.\ Our superior buying facilitie!:l insure our patrons the broadest, most ex- clusive stocks. Quality considered our prices are the most reasonable here- abouts. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Crean1ery Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head\ CLEANLINESS lends you an additional charm. It is al- ways an indicator of refinement.. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. We clean everything that needs clean .. ing-all high-grade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. 'Phone 1909-J 440 State Street Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. WHEN 'Phone 4489 IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS

''Specialized Service.\ Don't Continue BUYING THE Same Style of Suit T'he world is moving fast. Get a new one this season. These Hough- ton suits fit in with the times. You ought to cultivate your good appearance and make the most of it. A Houghton suit, when you wear it, falls in natural lines without being too loose or too tight.. It's fashionable , and you ought to be up-to-date. Long Trouser Suit The shoulder without padding collar hugging the neck closely-the smart appearance, due to the shape of the lapel and the soft roll-the sharply defined lines of the coat, vest, trousers give you something worth-while wearing. You will like it. We are prepared to give you a model that will not only be what you want but that is suitable for you. We cannot all wear the same kind of a coat. There are many models to select from. After all you want stylish clothes, without being extreme, and then the cloth and the pattern should be in harmony. Make a selection early. Don't wait too long. It's practical to pay for quality. BUY A SUIT AT $15 TO S25. HTD 455 STATE STREET ''The Store of Today-Four Hours From Broadway.\ Schenectady ~ Art Press

~. ·GJ!fe e CONCORD I ENS IS It: : : ; 1 a :: = = Football Number VOLUME 39 NOVEMBER 18, 1915 NO. 8 PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNNERSITY

UNION UNIVERSI CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL.D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses : 1. Ceur•e• leading to the degree of A.. B. CLASSICAL. Couas~ A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B- This course may be pur sued by candidates who satisfy the requirements for admission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on entrance and required for two years. In other respects Course B. is identical with Course A. s. (Jour•e leatllng to the degree of Ph. B. LATIN -SciENTIFIC CouRSE- This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Cour•e leadin.g to the 4egree of B. 1. SciEN'l'Il!IC Cou:asx- This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Cour•e lea.dln.g to the degree ot D. E. G~tN:nRAI, ENGIN~~R.ING Cou:as~- This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINB:lt:RING CouRSE- This differs from the general engineel'ing course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. Er.,~cTRICAt ENGI:N~£RING CouRs~- This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Cour•e• l~a411Dg to araduate degree•· CouRS£ ItEADING TO DEGREE ol! M. C. E.- This course of one year of graduate· study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRS! t£ADING -ro DltGI.£8 OJ M. S. in E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. Cou:asit t£ADING TO D~GR~It or Pu. D.- This course of two years of gr~duate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M S. in E. E. or an equjvalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARN~S, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925-W DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE, Founded 1838-A complete reorganization has been effected during the past year. Largely increased Hosnhal facilities have been assured with teaching services both in Medicine and Surgery, students having im~ mediate respontSibility under supervision. The laboratory staff has been increased and the courses re-arranged to confonn to improved methods. With these changes, it is believed that the Albany Medical College is prepared to furnish instruction which will meet the highest demands of modern medical education. Admission Requirements: Each candidate for ad- mission 1nust pre-sent his Medical Student's Certi- ficate from the Examinations Division of the Board of Regents of the State of New York and must furnish evidence of the satisfactory completion of one year's study, in a recognized college or scien- tific school, of physic·s, chetnistry, biology and Fr~ench or German. Union Gollege, Schenectady, N. Y., has arranged for such a course. Tuition: The charge for tuition is $160.00 a year and $5.00 for matriculation. There are no extra fees except for rental of microscopes and labor- a tory breakage. 1 The academic year begins Sept. 27, 1915. All in- quiries and other communications should be ad- dressed to THOMAS ORDWAY, M.D., Dean, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. :B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $Io; tuition fee, $rio. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. W .ATSON, Secretary, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $\()0.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: ALliRED B. HutsTED, Secretary, 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. SUITS PRESSED 2 5o. DRY CLEANIN·G AND PRESSING. Suits Called for and Delivered. 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate CHAS COOPER, No. 1 Landon Terrace Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate VOl Garr Thri A fierc( ton a a gar two and 1 could Sot ton o: necta~ more good Garni halve~ lining after J squad fie. A on Ha ed by· ers. 1 good f little 1 but th( mud cl of skid Pron and Cc coin th lTnion c

... d d Ll s e s ... :J, y n n l- l- d •t ~£ l- d T, .r a ·- l- l- d n ... The Concordiensis VOL. 39 NOVEMBER 18, 1915 NO.8 HAMILTON AND UNION TIE. Garnet Buries Ancient Jinx of Steuben Field. Thrilling No-Score Game the Best of the Season for Union. A scoreless tie marked the result of the fiercest clash ever staged between Hamil- ton and Union Saturday at Clinton. It was a game hard fought in every sense between two teams that played brilliant football, and were as evenly matched as two teams could be. Some 230 Union men journeyed to Clin- ton on boa~rd the special train that left Sche- nectady at 10:30 Saturday n1orning. Many more made the trip by automobile while a good number went on earlier or later trains. Garnished in white caps tb.a t between the halves were reversed to display a Garnet lining, Union's rooters took the field soon after Hamilton's. At 2 :40 when the Garnet squad appeared, th.e cacaphony was terri~ fie. And throughout the game the clear air on Hamilton's high hill was jarred and rock- ed by the rival noise of the opposing bleach- ers. Hamilton was there in mass. It was good football weather, crisp but sunny, with little wind. The field was soft underfoot, but the Garnet team was prepared with long mud cleats that diminished the possibilities of skidding. Promptly at three o'clock Captain Stoller and Captain Pope watched the flip of the coin that gave Union her choice of position. Dnion chose to 1receive the ki-ck-off. First Period. Schwartz kicked off to Goff on the 25 yard line and Goff came back 20 yards be- hind good interference before he was down- ed. H~re began a march that put .Union under Hamilton's goal, only to be turned back by a penalty. Girling cleared left end for 9 yards, Emeny making the tackle. Rosecrans plowed past tackle for first down. Stoller shot through center for two yards. Girling once more sped around end. This time he covered fifteen yards. Jones finally spilled him. Rosecrans went six yards. The ball was eleven yards from Hamilton's goal. Union was penalized 15 yards for hold- ing. Girling made four and Stoller 10 yards, but Paige intercepted a forward pass from Goff and Schwartz punted. The ball rolled to Union's eight yard line. Schwartz received Girling's punt and carried it to the 45 yard line. Gardner nailed him. Hamilton pre- sented a sturdy front and started a strong advance. Schwartz went by right end for 15 yards. Jones and Pope made two. Pope was held, and with the ball on Union's 18 yard line, Paige failed to kick a goal from the field. Girling punted from Union's 21 yard line. Rosecrans tumbled Schwartz at the moment he caught the ball. With the ball on Hamilton's 37 yard line, Schwartz rocket a forward pass to Jones 15 yards down the field. Schwartz made 9 yards be- fore Rosey got him. Hamilton was turned back 15 yards for holding. Schwartz rose

10 TH8 CONCORDIENSIS like one inspired to overcome this handicap and made 20 yards, bringing the ball up for a first down. Pope plunged through the line for eight yards more. With the ball on the 22 yard line, Hami1to.n was again pen ... alized 15 yards. Schwartz could not gain, a pass went astray, and Schwartz punted out of bounds. Union took the ball on the 20 ya~rd line. Girling, Rosecrans, and Stoller made first down. Union was on her own 40 yard line when the period ended. Second Period. The ball was in Hamilton's territory throughout the second period. Twice Union advanced within striking distance of Ham- ilton's goal. The advance inaugurated at the close of the first quarter continued. On fourth down with a yard to go Stoller tore off four more, starting the period. All Union's plays were straight football- povverful line-bucking and tearing end runs. Girling made six yards off tackle, and Rosecrans hammered in to the line for first down. Girling made four yards, Gow tackl- ing. Moynihan gathered in nine more around left end. Rosecrans went two yards. Union was penalized five ya1rds .. Girling made it up past Huntsman. The first open play Union made in this period, a forward pass, was blocked. Rosecrans' punt was blocked and Hamilton got the ball on her own 30 yard line. Paige lost five yards when Young broke through. Goff spoiled a for- ward pass, and Schwartz punted. Goff was dropped with no gain. tJ nion couldn't gain on plays by Girling and Stoller and 'Girling cut lose a long punt fron1 Union's· 25 vard line to Hamilton's ol one yard line. A group of Union and Ham- ilton players stood languidly watching the gyrations of the ball under Hamilton's goal but it did not roll over. Schwartz behind his own goal kicked out to Hamilton's 35 yard line. Rosecrans, Goff and Stoller tnade first down. Rosecrans dropped back for a shot at the goal from the field, but was un- successful. Hamilton put the ball in play O·tl the 20 yard line but could not gain. Schwartz punt- ed. Soon after, Girling returned the punt to 'Hamilton's 15 yard line and the half was over. Third Period. Schwartz received Rosecrans's kick-of£ on the 15 yard line and brought it up 15 yards before DuBois got him. Gardner broke through and spilled Schwartz for a five yard loss. Hay repeated the trick, throwing Schwartz for a two yard loss. After Pope made eight yards Schwartz punted. Rose~ crans carried it back to Union's 23 yard. line. As Stoller plowed through center, the fibre on his left wrm catapulted the ball far ahead of the line of scrimmage and Schwartz got it. He and Pope made 20 yards. Hamilton settled down to play the open game. Three times the team lined up for its puzzling open play formation and three times Union spoiled it. Schwartz punted short to the two yard line and Girling kicked to the middle of the field. Hamil ton punted back again. Girling was knocked out, but can1e back. Roof went in for Stoller. Moynihan an-d Roof made nine yards and Girling punted. The ball spiralled to Hamil- ton's 18 yard line. Hamilton failed to ad- vance and Schwartz punted to the fifty yard line. Girling went out and Anderson took his place. Rosecrans hung up eight yards, Goff sev- en, and Rosecrans came through with 15 n1ore. This was spectacular play, and the ball rested on Hamilton's eight yard line. Roof and Rosecrans gained three yards, but the Garnet was penalized five. Roof, un· deterred by the penalty, came back and made up the distance. 1··he ball was on Ham- il ton's five yard line when the whistle blew. Fourth Period. Girting went into the game for Ander .. son. It was fourth down with five yards to g-o for a touchdown and to make the distance, Goff got off a short pass over the middle of the 1jne. Young and Girling 'vere there tore .. . ce1' the on p was war tac1 cratJ to tl Sch, 40 y; . a w1 was did ~ Pop< Paig ful. first ~ on tl: tacul lers then a fon used· yards down Schw; the fie it, ga1 25 yar cut lc turn 1: Schw~ pass. swift£ This p Rosecr field fo had th~ 45 yare nestled 18 yar( ward p it. Un and wi success

t- ~t n .s :e d ·e d lt n :e d l- l- d k r- 5 e t· d ... 0 ... ' THE CONCORDIENSIS 11 ceive it. Between them the ball slipped to the g1round. Hamilton put the ball in play on the 20 yard line. Pope gained a yard through the line, Paige was held with adamantine firmness. Sch- wartz, after a small gain, punted. Goff was tackled in the middle of the field. Rose- crans gained three yards and then punted to the 12 yard line. Hamilton was. held and Schwartz had to punt. The ball sailed to the 40 yard line. Moynihan made :fifteen yards on a wild end run. On the same play the tean1 was penalized. Moynihan dropped back and did the trick over again, gaining 13 yards. Pope intercepted Goff's forward pass and Paige tried a drop kick that was unsuccess- ful. With 8 minutes to play, Union made first down and Rosecrans punted to Schwartz on the 40 yard line. Schwartz made a spec- tacular run of 20 yards, eluding three tack- lers till Rosecrans brought him down in the middle of the field. Gardner stepped on a forward pass. The second successful pass used by Hamilton during the game netted 20 yards, Schwartz to Gow. The ball was well down in Union's terri tory. Like a shot, Schwartz sent another pass spiralling down the field, and like a shot Rosecrans was under it, gathered it in his arms and circled back 25 yards through a broken field with it. Goff cut lose a pass, which was intercepted in turn by Pope. Pope went by for ten yards. Schwartz uncorked still another forward pass. Both teams were playing spectacular, swift football in the last five n1inutes of play. This pass of Schwartz's was swallowed by Rosecrans again. Rosecrans burned up the field for twelve yards to where Hamil ton had had the ball. It was Union's ball on Union's 45 yard line. A long forward pass from Goff nestled in Buddy Young's arms and netted 18 yards for the Garnet. Once more a for- ward pass got off, and Moynihan was under it. Union was on Hamil.ton's 20 yard line and with two minutes to play. In rapid succession, Rosecrans and Goff burnt into Hamilton's line for an eight yard gain. Under the shadow of the goal Rosecrans dropped back to try for a field goal. The last pass of the game was low and eluded Rosey's hands. Rosecrans reco-vered it and sped back until the ball was practically in the same position it had been before the at- tetnpted kick. At that moment the whistle blew· and the hush that had fallen on the field in that last thrilling moment was crack- ed in a tremendous riot of noise. The barest margin of half a minute had saved Hamilton from a probable defeat. Both teams played extraordinary football. Schwartz of Hamilton probably excelled every other man on either team in his bril- liant open field running and carrying back of punts. Rosecrans, Stoller, Girling and Roof worked with demon energy and under Goff's handling the team ran like a smooth- oiled machine. The line held at will and broke through often. Moynihan and Young had their hands full in holding back the vicious interference-charged end-runs of the Buff and Blue, while on the offensive both men shone. Union's play was based on fund- arnental football; no weird formations made up their substance; but hammer, jan1, and ride was the order, and the order was lived up to. Bidding farewell to. Stoller and Gard- ner, we can only say that they fought their best fight, played for the tean1, and were al- ways dangerous. It was a superb game to watch. Griffith --------------------------- Young Right end. Etneny ------------------------------ Hay Right tackle. Ogilvie ___________________ .._ _____ Du Bois Right guard. Dayton ------------------------- Gardner Center. ~lcLean --------------------------- Price Left guard. I-I untstnan ______ ---------------- 13 owman Left tackle.

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS. \V. Gow -------------------------- Moynihan HAMILTON HAS ED·GE. Left end. Nine times in 19 years has Hamilton van- Jones-------------------------- Rosecrans quished Union. Five times Union has won. Left halfback. Four no-score gatnes and a tie-score ga 1 ne P p (C t) c· 1' of 4 points have been played. o. e ap . --------------------- 1r 1ng Right halfback. Hamilton Union 6 S h t CC t) St 11 1891 --------------- 1 4 c war z ----------------- . · ap . o er Fullback. 1892 --------·------ 0 p . • 1893 ----·----------- 0 a1ge ----------------------------- Goff 1897 ----------·---- 4 12 34 4 Quarterback. 1898 Referee-Saunders, Columbia. U1npire- 1899 Beaver, West Point. Head linesman--Drap- ... 1'902 er, Williams. Substitutions: Union: Roof 1903 for Stoller, Anderson for Gi~rling, Girling 1904 for Anderson, DeLaplante for Girling. Time 1905 of periods-15 minutes. Attendance, 900. 1907 ----·---------- ----·---------- ----·---------- ----·---------- ----·---------- ----·---------- ----·---------- 17 lO 0 0 31 0 28 0 5 0 17 0 6 0 1908 1909 FROM THE SCHENECTADY GAZETTE 1910 ------·------- .... ----·---------- ----·---------- 6 18 0 0 0 0 \Girling for the Garnet made many bril- liant end runs for long gains and Moyni- han got off three good gains around the wings. Rosecrans played a hard game, hit- ting the line for consistent advances, making a total of about 90 yards for the Garnet on line plunges, intercepted passes, and other runs. Stoller proved effective and covered 30 yards for U ni~n in line bucking. Girl- ing's gains around the ends totaled about 60 yards and his punting was one of the fea- tures of the gan1e. In all, Union advanced the ball about 260 yards to Hamilton's 230. Approximately 130 ywrds of Union's gains resulted from line attacks and about 100 be- ing tallied from end runs. Hamilton made about 55 yards oil line bucks and 90 on end plays. Of the Buff and Blue gains, Schwartz, who easily starred for Hamilton, made 130 yards, and Pope made about 65. Both teams lost 35 yards on penalties and Ham- ilto11 lost 19 yards on plays. Union fumbled three times, losing the ball on two of these occasions. Throughout the game Hamilton made only six first downs while the Garnet made the distance eleven times.\ 1911 1912 ]913 1914 1915 ____ . _____ ..,., ___ .,. ----·---------- ______ ,. _______ _ 19 12 12 6 0 0 15 0 26 0 REVIEW OF UNION'S SEASON. By Roy E. Fairman (Sporting Editor of the Schenectady Union- Star.) In spite of the fact that Union was held to a scoreless tie by Hamilton and lost to New York University, thus failing to equal the record of the unbeaten football team of 1914 the season just closed has been a suc- cessful one. When a team can win six out of eight games and escape being scored on by more than one eleven, it does well. This is just what the Union team of 1915 has done, and, while the coach and students are disap- pointed over the failure to defeat their long standing rival, Hamilton, they feel that the football warriors wea,ring the ·Garnet this year have done well ; have done their share to uphold the athletic reputation of old Union! and are deserving of the praise and honor whi bes s vvit strc the For i\s 1 elev the . on 1 Nev regc: and the foot next E· 1914 erw COn1· son; son- back pare Whi as \' he is allov morE suits of si! of th Tv Moy: ered has 1 tiona forwc easil) of hi sight In weak tain - ~ Gard1

THE CONCORDIENSlS 13 which is given to every man who gives his best effort to his college. Starting the season ag-ainst St. Lawrence vvith an attack which was not particularly strong, the eleven developed rapidly and in the following ga1nes against Williams and Fordhatn showed the top form· of the season. i\s the Union team played against these two elevens, probably the strongest faced during the season, it could have beaten every team on its schedule. It fell off badly before the New York University game and never quite regained the form shown in the Williams and Fordham games. For the remainder of the season the team failed to play consistent football, being good one week and poor the next. Every veteran of the unbeaten eleven of 1914 except Starbuck, Holcerk and Jake Beav- er were available this season. The backfield, con1 posed of Girling, Roof, Stoller, Ander- son and Rosecrans, was irrtact. Coach Daw- son was compelled to develop a new quarter- back and Goff, a freshman, who pre- pared at Pawling School~ landed the job. While he can not handle the forward pass as well as Jake Beaver and is not as fastJ he is a natural field general .and, had he been allowed to use his own judgment a little more, might have produced still better re- sults. The backfield men called for a change of signals just a little too much for the good of the team. Two new ends were also developed and in Moynihan and Avila Coach Dawson uncov- ered two of the best wing men that Union has had in many a day. Both were excep- tionally strong on defense, sn1earing many a forward pass and end run and Moynihan was easily the fastest man on the squad. Some of his sweeping end runs were a goodly sight to see. In the line, from end to end, the greatest weakness of the Union team lay. In Cap- tain Jenkins, Bowman, Hay, Price, DuBois, Gardner, Nash and Jackson~ the eleven had some mighty good men but they failed to hold in critical times as well as the 1914 line and therein probably lies the failure to equal the 1914 'record. In many of the games Union would rush the ball down the field to within striking distance of the goal, only to lose it on downs. She appeared to lack the punch to carry it across, in many cases the line loosening instead of tighten- ing, with the result that opposing players would be able to nail the runners for losses. The holding of the linemen also caused the tean1 to lose much ground in penalties. Union scored 57 points during the eight games as against ten for her opponents. N. Y. U. was the only team to score on the Garnet. St. Lawrence was beaten 6 to 0, a touchdown by Moynihan being the only score. Williams fell before a greatly im- proved team by the score of 14 to 0, touch- downs by Girling and Goff and goals by Rosecrans telling the story. In Fordham Union met the stiffest opposition of the sea~ son and in this game the Garnet played the best football of the year. Anderson kicked two field goals i~ this contest, which gave Union a 6 to 0 victory. In the next contest, that with N. Y. U., the eleven was clearly off form. In the first few minutes the New Yorkers scored a touch- do\\\-~n and kicked a field goal. Union then braced and held her opponent scoreless for the remainder of the game but the Garnet lacked offensive power in this battle and a number of chances to score were frittered away. Next came Stevens, and Union won this game 21 to 0, playing good football. At least two more scores would have been made had it not been for the ground lost in penal ties. Rhode Island State proved troubleson1e and it was only a beautiful drop kick from the 47-yard line by Rosecrans that gave the Garnet a 3 to 0 victory. On the next Sat- urday tTnion beat R. P. I. but it was a dis- appointing victory. The Garnet lacked the

14 THE ,CONCORDIENSIS scoring punch. A single touchdown was aU that the team could make against this sup- posedly weak eleven, although it is only fair to say that the engineers played way above their form of other games, either before or after. In the last game of the season against Hamilton at Clinton, although Union failed to score, it is the concensus of opinion among those who saw the contest, that the Garnet outplayed Hamilton all the way and that it was only the breaks of the game that pre- vented Hamilton's goal line from being crossed. The eleven showed the best forn1 and played the best football of any game since the Fordham contest. While Union failed to win, she did something which she had not done before in eight years-escaped defeat on the Hamilton field. This alone is cause for rejoicing. Some of the brightest spots in Union's play during the season have been the work of Rosecrans, Girling, Roof, Stoller and the ends, Moynihan and Avila. Rosecrans has been a bulwark of defense and has car,ried the ball for substantial gains. He has also done some fine kicking. Girling has outpunt .. ed every opponent and his wide, scintillating end runs have ben spectacular and produc- tive of much ground gaining. Stoller and Roof have hit the line like human catapults and the work of the ends has already been mentioned. Anderson, the other back, has done effective kicking and plunging. Gardner, at center, while he is not a Ho- kerk, has, on the whole, done good work and has been particularly strong on defense. In most games his passing has also been good. Hay, Price and Bowman have done the best of the other .linemen. Jenkins started the season with all his old time power but fell off in effectiveness as the season progressed. It would be unfair not to mention other men who got into some of the games. Young Moore, Moor a, Powell, Mallen, Mudge, Jackson and others performed well. Union's outlook for next year is bright. Only Stoller, Jenkins and Gardner of the regula~rs will not be back and Coach Daw~ son, whose regime has been marked by un·· usual success, will be able to develop a team which should be as good as the best. THE SEASON'S RECORD. v Sept. 25-U nion vs. St. Lawrence -------- Oct. 2-U nion vs. \!Villiams (Williamstown) Oct. 9-Union vs. Fordham-------------- Oct. 16-Union vs. N. Y. U. (New York)_ Union 6 14: 6 0 Opponent 0 0 0 10 Oct. 23-Union vs. Stevens ------------·- Oct. 30-Union vs. Rhode Island State ___ _ Nov. 6-Union vs. R. P. I. -------------- Nov. 13-Union vs. Han1ilton (Clinton) ___ _ Totals ------------------------------ FOOTBALL STATISTICS. Carl Burt Jenkins, '1 if, captain-Tackle, varsity 1, 2, 3, 4; 22 years; 180 lbs.; Glens Falls High School. Karl M. Stoller, '16; fullback, varsity 2, 3, 4; 22 years; 174 lbs. Schenectady High School. 21 0 3 0 r 0 0 0 57 10 Harold B. Gardner, '16, guard, 2, 3, center 4. 20 years old; 177 lbs. ; Alta1nont High School. Philip tr. Mallen, '16; end, 22 years; 1G:J lbs. ; Chicago Latin School. Kenneth Hanson, '16; end, 1, 2, 3, 4; 21 yea~rs ; J 37 lbs. Irving School. } ter, Sch v 20 y D 1.55 ~ 20 y D lbs.; G~ 22 V1 ol Cl 21 y~ Al 195 : Fr 140 1 }a1 lbs; , H<: lbs; Ca 182 11 Jol Nort1 Jos lbs. ; : Ho 157 n La' lbs. ; . Cia: lbs.; : Pas Ohio Cha years; Ral] lbs.; E A ttl quarte Edw years;

THE CONCORDIENSIS 15 John Jackson, ;1 'I; guard, t; ~ackle, 2; cen- ter, 3; 22 years; 187 lhs:; Fort Plain High School. INDIVIDUAL POINTS SCORED. Wilfred Rosecrans, '17; half back 1, 2, 3; 20 years; 168 lbs.; Schenectady High SchooL Dow Roof, '17; fullback 1, 2,, 3; 22 years; 1.55 lbs. ; Dean Academy. Wallace S. Girling, '17'; half back 1, 2, 3; 20 years; 167 lbs.; Jamaica High School. Don Price, '17; guard 1, 2, 3; :22 years; 1'('5 lbs.; Hancock High School. Gordon Nash, '1 '('; 2nd tealitl center 1, 2, 3 ; 22 years; 155 lbs.; Schenectacly High School. Clarence Anderson, '18; h_aU back 1, 2 ; 21 years; 160 lbs.; Irving Schoot Albert DuBois, '18; guard 1, 2; 21 years ; 195 lbs. ; Catskill High School.. Frank Moynihan, '18; end 1, 2; 22 years ; 140 lbs; Fort Edward High School. James Mudge, '18 ; end 1, 2; 19 years ; 135 lbs; Schenectady High School. Harold Hay, '18; tackle 1, 2 ; 21 years ; 180 lbs; Holyoke High School. Calvin Bowman, '18; centeT 2 ; 22 years; 182 lbs. ; Washington High S<:hool. John Moore, '18; end 2; 18 y-ears; 142 lbs.; Northville High School. Joseph Powell, '19; tackle, 2; 2ti yeaJrs; 167 lbs. ; East Carroll High School, La. Homer Goff, '19 ; quarterbaclc i ; 18 years; 157 lbs.; Pawling School. Law Bowtnan, '19; tackle 1; 19 years; 182 lbs. ; Andover. Clarence Young, '19; end; ~0 years; 155 lbs. ; Hollywood High School=' Cal. Pasual Avila, ;19; end; 20 years; 140 lbs.; Ohio State Military Academy. . Player. Cf} L! ~ d ~ (fl • • 0 ~ ro ~U1H~ 00 ~ :=§ ~ H p_; \§ ~ :;:: ~ ~ roo itl~~ 01~~~8 Girting ------ 7 - - ·7 - - - 14 Rosecrans ____ - 1 -- -· 8 3 1 - 13 Moynihan -·-- 6 6 ------ 12 Goff ----·---- - - - - 6 - 6 - 12 Anderson ---- -. - 6 - - - - - 6 FOOTBALL MEN GET LETTERS. At a meeting of the Awards Committee of the Athletic Board held Monday afternoon, the following men were awarded l!\·'s: Captain Jenkins, Harold Gardner, Karl Stol- ler, Wall ace Girting, Go~ don Nash, Don Price, Dow Roof, Wilfred Rosecrans, Clar- ence Anderson, Albert Du Bois, Harold Hay, Frank Moynihan, James Mudge, Pasual Avila, Law Bowman, Homer Goff, Clarence Young. The ofllowing men were awarded A. lJ. A.'s: Philip Mallen, Kenneth Hanson, Calvin Bowman, John Moore, Charles De Laplante, Ralph Hunt, Arthur Notman, Edward Pat- terson, Joseph Powell. The following men were awarded class numerals: Russell Bellinger, John Bennett; Leonard Cunningham, Charles Kuperman, John Imrie, Herman Lefkowitz, Charles Moora, George Mosher, Abner Lowman, Paul Roche, Ralph Travis. WHAT FRED DAWS-ON HAS TO SAY. Charles De Laplante, '19 ; haJf back 1; 18 years; 149 lbs.; Nicholls School. Ralph Hunt, '19; end 1; 2() years; 158 lbs. ; Elmira Free Academy. Arthur Notman; '19; varsity e.rid;! 2nd tea~n quarter; 18 years; 142 lbs. ; Nicholls School. EdwaJrd Patterson, '19; half back; 19 years; 170 lbs.; Pawling School. Eulogies are always difficult to make and especially are they so when there have been no bright points in the career of the one eu- logized upon which to dwell, but such is not the case in this instance. There are some peaks in the curve which might represent our season's record. A rise frot:n the opening of

16 THE CONCORDI:ENSIS the season to the Williams game, a decline which reached its lowest depth in the N. Y. U. g-ame, incidentally our only defeat, a slight rise during the next two games, a drop when we faced R. P. I. and a termina- tion at a respectable high point with the no score tie at Hamilton. In other words the team played good football against Willian1s and Hamil ton, indifferent in other cases, with a slight rise above indifference in the Ford- ham game, and poor football against N. Y. U. I have stated at other times that the tean1 reflected the attitude of .mind of the student body and this is borne out by the fact that the team played brilliant games immediately after the only two campus meetings of the year. At each of these n1eetings some of the fighting sprrit aroused them and then became instilled in the team. It evidenced itself on the next day when the team played most creditably. Let us have ·tnore campus n1eetings next year; if possible, one before each game and at them let \pep\ be uncon- fined. Also, in the old days, the team used to get a rousing send-off when they left town to play elsewhere, and also the student body used to stick around the old gym. door to sing and to c.heer the tired gladiators in- side, a.nd this in the days when Union used to have losing football teams. Did these things have their value? And where are they now? A word about the team. We lose two men by gra·duation, Carl Stoller and \Bone\ Gardner. There are Williams men now who are wondering how in the world the human battering-ram that \Stoll\ made of himself stoo9 the grind. \Stoll\ has always been in his glory when arched over a bit, the ball folded under his arms, running with his knees high, he has ploughed into a mass of human- ity for a substantial gain. \Bone\ Gardner has shone in his defence line work. Nearly every team which has faced the Garnet line this year has had some pet delayed buck or COACH DAWSON cross pass meet disaster at \Bone's\ hands. He had a most excellent \hunch\ on these plays and was valuable at the center and guard positions. The backfield has been of a most excellent quality and has played con- sistently all season. Goff, in his first yeatr of college football, has held down the position fl1, de so gr, en me: pre 0 Wl ce~ SOl 0 VlC SO! 1 be< tha alt, . his haE cos I hoc 0 pot: hav carr day teat fur, . mar T 0CC1 No\ Bog Hig witl men M his · sche

~rHE CONCORDIENSIS 17 of quarterback in good shape. Roof and Rosecrans have been our plunging backs and have played ex cell en t defensive games. Moynihan and Girling on end runs have n1ade \first downs\ very consistently. An- derson, Girling and Rosecrans have done some excellent kicking this season. Next season's outlook is encouraging; graduation robs us of but two men and the entering class should provide material to make up the lo·ss. Our schedule will, in all probability, be more difficult and the team will have to be stronger in proportion. Suc- cess will be ours to enjoy for another sea- son but we can not hope for such a string of victories as we have had for the last two sea- sons. We have learned that penalties have rob- bed us of greater laurels and it is certain that next year the man who incurs a pen- alty will suffer for it, even to the extent of his removal frnm the game, for Dawson has resolved to stamp out this evil at any cost. In conclusion I want to urge the student body to keep th~ spirit of the college at a point which will prevent the slumps that have occurred this season, to have more campus meetings and more support on week- day afternoons at practices. Do this and the team will surprise you and even i tsel£ in the fury and determination that raises the hu- man effort to the level of the superhuman. DEATH OF FRANK EOGASKIE. The death of Frank Stanton Bogaskie, Jr., occurred at ten o'clock Thursday night, November 11, at his home in Sacandaga. Bogaskie prepared for Union at Johnstown High School, and would have graduated with the present senior class. He was a member of the Delta Phi fraternity. BASKETBALL SCHEDULE. Manager B'rown is to be congratulated on his basketball schedule. He has on this schedule a group of most desirable colleges and the dates of the games are very well arranged. Five new tean1s appear on the sch_~dule this year; the State College for ,.reachers, Clarkson Tech, the Crescent Ath- letic Club, Amherst and Lehigh. The outlook for a winning team is very bright for there are several fast players in the freshman class. Of these the most prom- ising are Y ovits and Glover of Schenectady High SchooL Witbeck and Sittner of Scotia High School, Goff of Pawling School, and Moora of Montclair High School. Regular practice will begin some time next week and some lively competitions for places on the team are sure to take place. The schedule is as follows : Dec. 11-State College for Teachers, Sche- nectady, Saturday. Dec. 18-Clarkson Tech, Schenectady, Sat- urday. Jan. 8-R. P. I., Schenectady, Saturday. Jan .. 14-Wesleyan, Middletown, Friday. Jan. 15-Crescent Athletic Club, N evv York, Saturday. Jan. 22-Amherst, Amherst, Saturday. Feb. 5-Lehigh (Junior Week), Schenec- tady, Saturday. Feb. 12-St. Lawrence, Schenectady, Sat- urday. Feb. 17-Williams, Schenectady, Thurs- day. . Feb. 19-Amherst, Schenectady, Saturday. Feb. 22-West Point, West Point, Tues- day. Feb. 26-R. P. I., Troy, Saturday. March 1-- Williams, Williamstown, vV ed- nesday. March 4- Wesleyan, Schenectady, Satur- day. March 11-P,rinceton, Schenectady, Satur- day. \I sent my son to college, And now I cry, alack ! I spent a thousand dollars And get a quarter-back.\ -Ex. . ' '•', /'l > ;f;! . '

18 H u THE CONCORDlltNSIS. Ct-IART Of UNION-HAMILTON ~AMI: NOV. ·15,.1915. 0 /0 2C PIAST HALF 30 40 so 30 2.0 -t-- ~~L~ . 1- --1-- -f---- -f--- - - - - - -- - • l- -- -1-- --~~-------~~ -.. Moo- ··1--- r-- <1---- .. ~o-- - - ·- ·f---- -f. \\'-\'---~ A • ............... [., '-~ ~ ~ -'f',-::_-Cl'-\\\..._ -_;- ~ ·v 1, ' 1- -\ /~- ~- - ~-- ...,...--- .-. ·r:::--·r::;- . ~ (X.. J-...,......1--....,;\IC'\\ • ) '\' o.lf, F. P. ~ 1-- -1- - , ,~ -!S. '~ ( ( --- ..,_-[,-- ---: -i- --- ---··'~ \?' ) ~ - - 1-- ·~ -~-- - -j~- ___ .... , ..... __ I - --1-- . ....._ - ~ •J---,- -I- ·--r ,, ' & .., u H

T[-lE CONCORDIENSIS to SECOND .,~ . Sb HALF 4'0 • . --·. -....:..+- 1 -I- ), ~ j\~!---1·-- ·-· -- ·r- .. - .. A H ..,;- _ _. _____ ,._..,....._ - .... ~!-+ ..... lllll-lli\i!o- ~ ....... , -- .a • AJ' • a • I. I • ~• a . .a._._ ..&. .• • 'a-:~ ...... ..a ,. --- _._._,... ·- -- ------ ---....-.. ___....,.. _____ - ~ /?(INNIN(j WITif 81\L(.. = /(IGKS --- -- -:> .-....:1>11!;: -~-> ···-· -> --~ = P::el'la/1) Heov:,rLines=-(/IVItJN ::::::s hrward Pass (X)ind,cate.s ~~/?Cup 19 H u

20 THE CONCORDIENSIS. THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly PubHshed by TI-IE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., a.g Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Richard E. Taylor, '16. ASSISTANT EDITOR Nathaniel A. Finch, '16. LITERARY EDITOR Avrom M. Jacobs, '16. ASS'T LIT. EDITOR James B. Taylor, '16 .STAFF ARTIST Alwyn G. Levy, '18. ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. M. Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 F. Vv. Porter, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Rudolph W. Schwartz, '17. Howard A. Glenn, '16, Business Manager Ernest W. Mandeville, '17, Ass't. Business Manager Subscription: $2.00 per year, payable in advance. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. THE FOOTBALL SEASON. A list of six victories, one defeat, and one tie game has been recorded in the football annals of Union. Casting back over the sea- son just past we find it began with high promise. The tradition of a year ago made a radiant background on which to work. There were limitless possibilities in the team. Statistically the season of 1915 is a suc- cess. Six victories and a tie over against one defeat can not b~ held in contempt. But speaking bluntly, the season has not been quite the success of hope and of promise. A.fter weathetring the brilliant Williams game, Union went up against a strong foot- ball-playing team from Fordham, and beat it. At the same time Cornell's snow-under of \iVilliams cast a slight mist on the crystal of Union's victory over the Purple. Then came the blow. N. Y. U. defeated Union; defeated it fairly and flatly by a score of 10 to 0. It was small consolation to know later that the Garnet was in a slump, and still later to read that a team, which Union had already defeated, subsequently beat N. Y. U. The record stands, and N. Y. U. dese,rved the victory. The. season continued, fair and warmer, with a final flare in that glorious struggle at Clinton. But the high promise failed to materialize until the Hamilton game. There were bick- erings on the eleven; lack of drive and of unity was deeper-seated than in the running of plays. But at Clinton, Union cliqued to- gether like Kim's consciousness on the steps of the Benares station, and played up. It had to. Hamilton was never stronger. So if Union does not feel the jubilation of a year ago, at least it can be well content. -~ team whose potentialities were limitless found itself at the last moment. Fred Daw- son, Steve Story, and the good Meade Brunet were vindicated. The student-body who also stood and waited and did various other es- sential things had its apotheosis in Utica. And so it is with feelings of satisfaction and esteem that we note the end of another season. The team belonged. We claim it proudly. The passing of Jenkins, of Stoller, of Gardner, is our one regret. The future is lucent. Here's to them and it! HAMILTON. The biennial journey of Union's student body to Hamilton and its vicinage has as- sumed the status of an institution. We like Hamilton, we like to go to I-Iatnilton, we have been pleased, in the past, with Han1i1- p H . 1t u tl: H It di H WI W( it Bt pic en thl ilt< H<J sat bet OUt lVIa hac equ £rot s self rea< at 1 Gar ind<: Surr F!rOJ cant dina AJ

) t THE CONCORDIENSIS 21 ton, even in defeat. We shall continue to be pleased in the future with Hamilton whether in defeat or in victory. Rivalry between the two institutions is intense and honest. That is as it should be. Union admires a college that plays footbail the way Hamilton does. We know that Hamilton feels an equal respect for Union. It wottld mar the fineness of Hamilton's spirit did she not. Saturday especially we enjoyed going to Hamilton. In regard to the game itself we w~re pleased for various reasons. Primarily we came away with the opinion-with which it is only human nature for our friends the Buff and Blue to disagree-that Union out- played its opponents and scored the equival- ent of a victory. Union's team had gone through a season less spectacular than Ham- ilton's. On form Union had not displayed Hamilton's strength in the field. But we are satisfied that on Saturday Union played the better football. The ancient jinx which has loomed before our eleven so frequently at Clinton is, in Dr. 1\iac's phrase, quite dead. The team beat back an aggressive attack and presented an equally vigorous and perhaps more efficient f,ront. So we are quite satisfied with the game it- self. Moreover we were enabled by it to reach the conclusion that in future \playing- at Hamilton\ will have no terrors for the Garnet. Under adverse conditions, after an indecisive season, Union came through Summing up, we offer an editorial prediction: From this day forth TJnion will defeat anti continue to defeat Han1ilton 'vith extraor- dinary frequency. After this digression we return to our mutton. A statement made by a Han1il ton- ian Saturday shocked us. Said he : \Well I guess Union won't drop Hamilton from its schedule after all!\ To what wanton extremes a campaign of ugetting crazy\ may carry an Agitation :Con1mittee we cannot estimate. We opine that such a report could have been confided to a oredulous student-meeting only on the .inspiration of a more acute frenzy than was quite consistent with actual conditions. Wherefore we hasten to assure our neigh- bors and friends in Clinton that such a state- ment is ill-founded, that no such supercilious attitude has existed or does exist at Union, and that we harbor nothing but cordial re- spect, actual liking, and chivalrous rivalry for our friends who live at the end of the Utica-Clinton trolley line. (The editorials for this issue were written by W. M. Gilbert.) GLEE CLUB SINGS BEFORE APPRECIATIVE AUDIENCE. Mrs. Charles S. Whitman Patroness at Dance After the Concert. Forty-five members of the Musical Clubs were transported to Albany, last Friday evening, where they gave a 'real concert in Centennial Hall. The clubs are beginning to show the results of training, and the music is said to have been even better than that given in Albany last year. The affair went smoothly, though at one time during the singing of \Mah Punkin' Sue,\ one of the tenor soloists suffered a i<l.pse of memory. His embarrassment was amusing, however, and soon he remembered his line, and the song went on. Such \swipes\ really tnake the concert more interesting. The program has been rearranged, and Harold Cook has been given a nt11nber. He plays Chopin's II . , \ .. i . ,. r· ' : 'I' I , : ji ·' . : lj j·

22 THE ·CONCORDIENSIS Polonaise, Opus .53. Philip Downs was l~ad­ er of the Glee ·Club in the absence of G-ard.- ller, who had to leave his position on account of the Hamilton game next day. After the concert the party adjourned tfj St. Andrew's Hall, where all the students par- ticip~ted in an informal dance. The patron- esses fo1r the affair were : Mrs. Charles S. Whitman, Mrs. Charles A. Richmond, Mrs. Marcus T. Hun, Mrs. Andrew McFarlane, Mrs. William P. Rudd, Mrs. Frederick Cam- eron, Mrs. William G. Rice, Mrs. Harm()ll P. Read, Mrs. Benjamin W. Arnold, Mrs. S-p€n- cer Dawes, M1rs. Charles E. Davis and Xrs. Douglas W. Olcott. The members of the musical clubs are as follows: GL.EE CLUB. First Tenors-L. E. Baldauf, '16; H. B. Gardner, '16; G. E. DeRouville, '16; A.. E. Hawn, '17; H. R. Knight, '17; S. W. Talbot, '18; C. S. Moora, '19; J. H. Potter, '19; J. P. 'rownsend, '19. Second Tenors-R. L. Embree, '16; P. W. Downs, '17; E. V. Jones, '17; G. II. Becl<ett, '18; R. A. Schuyler, '18; R. S. Clark, '19; H. W. True, '19. First B assos-R. A. Newton, '16 ; H. S. Roberts, '17; C. C. Bowman, '18; E.. 11. Cameron, Jr., '18; P. S. Dorion, '18; L. H. Frasier, '18; P. Hoag, '18; W. L. Kenn._e<iy, '18; W. G. Croucher, '19; R. R. Faust, '19; J. A. Greene, '19; V. N. Phillips, '19; J. A. 'ravlor, '19. Second Bassos-C. T. Lester, '17; A.. C. 1\1ead, '17; H. J. Williatns, '17; A. K. Reid, '18 ; I. R. Stein, '18; C. De la Vergne, '19; J. F. Davidson, 'i9; B. T. Taylor, '19. Accompanist, P. S. Dorion. BANJO CLUB. Banjos-E. F. Goggin, W. C. Vosburg-h. Banjo-Mandolins-A. Hooper, '16; C. C. BoV\rman, '18. Tenor Banjo-G. H. Beckett, '18. Guitar-C. S. Brignall, '18. Mando-Bass-H. R. Knight, '17. MANDOLIN ORCHESTRA. First 1\1 andolins-E. F. Goggin ; E. W. Moore; A. Hooper, '16; P. W. Downs, '17; G. H4 Beckett, '18; E. M. Cameron, Jr., '18; M. I. King, '18; C. De la Vergne, '19; W. C. ](elsey, '19. Second Martdolins-H. C. Dikeman, '16; E. C. Brandow, '17; C. C. Bowman, '18; J. F. Davidson, '19; F. A. Shields, Jr., '19. Piccolo Mandolin-]. C. Y ounie, '18. Mandolas-P. C. Brown,. '18; P. Hoag, '18. JVfando-Cello-R. L. Embree, '16; V. N. Phillips, '19. Cello-C. S. Parker. Guitars-W. C. Vosburgh; C. S. Brignall, '18. Mando-Bass-H. R. Knight, '17. Violin-!. R. Stein, '18. Traps-H. W. True, '19. James La Vern Pollick, '18, son of Arthur J. Pollick of Rural Grove, Montgomery County, died at the Ellis Hospital, N ovem- ber 7th. The immediate cause of his death was meningitis. Pollick was a nephew of Dr. H. M. Pollick of Albany. He was a graduate of Fonda High School. REHEARSALS FOR THE HEAVENLY CHOIR. Query: Do Angels Wind Up Their Harps? The Y. M. C. A. wants a grafonola for Silliman Hall. Now is the chance. Most of us know that the storekeepers down town have obtained fourteen g1rafonolas ranging in price from $200 to $17 and that they are giv- ing tickets or coupons depending in value upon the amount of the purchase. The houses on the hill and all of the fellows are urged to turn over their coupons to the Y. M. C. A. since only organizations are eligible in this contest and since no one house would have much chance of winning anything. If everyone enters into this there is no reason w_hy the Y. M. C. A. should not win one of the best grafonolas. IF And Hov As) Whc: And ] If ow ~ Whe r On consi incidc undet can i bland ph ere tone ( place . tng. It b hual ~ a dee: ,. A lc the Vc: Best ' Be Sa that t: someV\

. , . , . ' a THE CONCORDIENSIS 23 ·@{) ~)( -0- vital >Snap, the ad. might have been headed, \Don't be Discouraged! Beer Up! Be a Man!\ In any issue of the New York Journal: HORRIBLE BLOODY MURDER Said to Have Been Committed. IF GRANTLAND RICE HAD S~EEN THAT LAST MINUTE. EAST PA'TERSON, July 4.-Little Minnie Brown, 3-year-old daughter of Mr. and Mrs . Brown, of 17 7th Street, left home at 8 o'clock this morning, ostensibly to purchase a pail of milk for her mother, who is an inveterate milk- drinker, having religiously adhered to the habit ever since she tnoved to this city ten year.g ago from Yonkers, where Mr. Brown was success- fully employed in a tannery, a trade which he learned from his father, Ira Brown, in his day the smartest man in Clover County, hut instead of going directly to the dairy she paused before a moving picture show, called the Temple of Pleasure, and owned by George H. Hicks, form- erly of Iowa, and was just about to start on her way again when a huge beer truck belonging to the Hop Co. Brewery on 4th Street, producers of the famous Hop Beer for over 40 years and the most important industry in East Paterson, according to a recent -statement in the public school by Ex-Mayor V. Brown, who is, as near as could be learned at a late hour last night, a step-brother of Mr. Brown, the father of the unfortunate little girl. The New York police are at work on the mystery and predict results with- in a fortnight. When you've fought your fight and tied us with a minute left to play And we've rolled and rolled you back to where your goal post shadows lay, How that little minute drags and drags, each second seems a day- As you fight beneath your goal posts with a min- ute left to play! When we've fought our fight and tied you with a minute left to play And you've stopped us with the goal-line such a little step a·way, Ifow that one great minute races, how the seconds speed away- When we're so, so near that goal-line and a minute left to play! One of the sons of Ha-a-a-a-milton amu~ed us considerably with the story of the cow-in-chapel incident, which occurred on the mountain, we understand, some two or three weeks ago. We can imagine the ludicrousness of the ]eftSey blandly chewing her cud in the venerate atmos- phere of the pulpit and we can also imagine the tone of the bull decreed from that same venerable place upon the culprits on the following morn- . tng. It being about six months distant from the an- hual spring ~freshet, Albany is again howling for a deeper Hudson. THE INEBRIAT:E'S PARAGRAPH. A local intemperance store advertises thus in the Van Curler program: K- Beer is one of the Best Tonics Obtainable. Try a Gallon-You'll Be Satisfied. At a rough guess, we should say that the feeling of satisfaction ought to set in somewhere along in the third quart. To have that PERSIFLAGING THE FACULTY. Charlie Waldron dropped this wierd one last week: Burr's domestic life was very fortunate. He had a charming wife; -she died, and then he had a daughter. Perfectly ABsured, Prof. Hill would say. \Throw forward the press-agents!\ commands the Allied sta£f as the Germans are sigh ted. Then it's, \Forward men! How can we 1ose with the N. Y. Telegram behind us?\ SMASHING THE FOOTLIGHTS. The Good Actors in \Very Good Eddie\ Were Very Bad Actors at Glenn's. The Marburg-Comstock essay to deck \Over Night\ in the robes of 1nusical comedy was only partially successful. \Very Good Eddie\ n1ust have short-comings combed out and bolstered up before it can dare to anticipate a pleasant fiPSt night at the Princess. Chief among its several transgressions is the utter inability of the leads i ,, ' ]. ; U. \ ' ' l ,·1 ' . ~ l i,. ' j' I ,,:, ' ·~' r I i ... ... I. I I

24 T'HE ·CONCORDIENSIS to \get over\ Mr. Kern's music, much of which would otherwise prove enjoyable in ~Spite of its occasional similitude to \Nobody Home.\ When Florence Nash with her made-for-the-occasion voice attempts to sing \An O~cean of Love,\ one feels alternately respondent to the excellence of the song and depressed by the singer's ditSability to cope with it. Especially discomforting to the audience on this account is the feature song, \Isn't it Great to Be Married?\ Sung in quartet by Florence Nash, Ernest Truex, Helen Raymond and Carl Gantvoort, it gives the impression of an admirable composition being struggled with by well-meaning but wholly inept amateurs. It is all very well to instill true acting ability into the musical comedy, but it is jumping from the frying pan into the fire to belittle the musical end of the question. Another misstep by the pro- ducer'S is in the staging of the final scene in which the chorus flaunts itself high up in a hotel mez- zanine and vainly tries to impress the audience with the smartness of its leather-trimmed gowns. These costumeos are most admirable-too good to hide away so clandestinely. We were informed that a dance will be introduced in this connec- tion to bring the young ladies down stairs. And speaking of dancing, we were vastly relieved to learn that the feature dancers will not join the production until it opens in the metropolis and that the wretched exhibition in the tSecond act was only a temporary adjunct. \Very Good Eddie\ is a pursuance of the Mar- bury-Comstock policy of weaving a genuine plot into the musical comedy, Philip Bartholomae, who wrote the book, having melted up the bulk of \Over Night\ into a skeleton form that affords a good relief ·for Kern's music. We are a bit dubious about the reception of the produ<;tion in New York, since Bartholomae is, for some reason or other, very much on the outs with the critics and exposes himself to a gay panning at each. new attempt. However, despite the handicap of this theatrical feud, he has penned several not- able succeosses, including \Over Night\ and \When Dreams · Come True.\ Elizabeth Mar- bury is a producer of note, both in America and England, and is the founder of the Castle School of Dancing in New York. F. Ray Comstock is hest known locally as lessee of the Van Curler theater and Harmanus Bleecker Hall in Albany. Jerome Kern has compotSed several successful scores recently. They include \Nobody Home,\ \Mis-Information which is now playing to good houses at the Cohan theater, and \Cousin Lucy,\ the vehicle of Julian Eltinge and recently seen at the Van. The cast of the piece has been chosen with too much of an eye cocked on the acting ability of tbe leads. Erneost Truex has emerged from his likable juvenile J>art in \Just Boys\ and his sue~ f 1 1 d . '\ 0 N. h \ . h · cess u ea tn: ·· ver 1g t 1nto t e most Irre- sponsible, hen-pecked little husband imaginable, affording an inexhaustible supply of amusement in the farcical situations, but failing, with his inadequate voice, to make the most of his >Songs. Though his interpretation of \When You Wear a 13 Collar\ went well, his other numbers sadly 1 1a,cked a good singing voice to bring them out. We found the same fault with Florence Nash ' who is remen1:bered for her clever work following Jane Cowl in \Within the Law.\ She lived her part of a silly, unsophisticated little newly-wed very laughably, but, as we have said, she was woe- fully lacking in her singing. Miss N a'Sh's gowns reflected her part admirably and did honor to the ·designing taste of Melville Ellis. Carl Gantvoort, fortunately for the production, is not a pennan- ent fixture in spite of the excellence of his bari~ tone voice. Here was a personage chosen to s1ng rather than to act, but hitS grasp upon the latter art was so nearly nil that the directors hastily crossed his solo from the program before he had a chance to make himself ridiculous. As it was, he raiosed considerable havoc with his role o~ the other young newly-wed. Gantvoort was seen here six years ago in \Madan1 Butterfly\ and three years later in \Sweethearts\ and was recent- ly affiliated with Gilbert and Sullivan's revival of \H. lVL S. Pinafore.\ Oscar Shaw, a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania and an im- portation from the London varieties, waos given insufficient ()pportunity to use his good voice, perhaps because it afforded a too brilliant con- trast with the absurd singing of the leads. Anna Orr unfortuRately succutnbed to an attack of !_)neumonia about three weeks ago and Truex'os wife, Julia :Mills, was rushed into the part. She has beauty, fair voice, and cleverness as a dancer, and, though slightly nervous in her first important appearance, seconded 1tiistS Orr very well. We were given to alternate mirth and repugnance at the comedy of ] ohn E. Hazzard, best known as author of the poem, \Ain't It Awful Mabel.\ In the guise of a slangy small-town hotel clerk, he at times spoiled his w.ork with resort to vulgar~ 1ty. Hazzard was well received in New York last -season in the ~'Lilac Dominae.\ Ada Lewis, the effervescent young lady of Winter Garden fame. breezed across stage at intervals and made the most of her role. Helen Raymond, playing op- posite Truex, showed considerable muscular prowess in juggling her diminutive husband dttr' .ing tior: seel tho1 Hat aHy pos: Sha muc of ( er c or { wee] \\ five duct wheJ Tue~ Satu ance Biltr .. at tl gtVllJ A~ at th thirt: berin after Af1 smas decid coun reaso the c WE sons Col frienc Weg With C< And l f) When Wh Germ, Pro· off ere~ a Hor

0 18 s. e- n- . to ce, of x'tS at as In he the THE ,CONCORDIENSIS 25 .ing one of the song'S, and in this way kept atten- tion away from her weak voice. Herbert Hoey, seen in the chorus, is understudying Truex though he is not at all the type for the part. Harry McKenna, also in the chorus, was origin- aHy chosen to do this work, but he proved im- possible and was switched over to back up Oscar Shaw, Hoey taking his place. Hoey's type is much better adapted to Shaw. He is a graduate of Georgia Tech and is only a spasmodic follow- er of the stage, having just completed about six or eight week'S of the dull life following a 32 weeks' swing around the Keith vaudeville wheel. \Very Good Eddie\ premiered at the Van after five weeks' rehearsal in the Princess. The pro- duction completed last week in Albany, from whence it jumped to New Haven for Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights will be spent in private perform- ances in New York at the Vanderbilt, Astor and Bilt_tpor~ respectively, and the opening night at the Princess will be on Monday of Thanks- giving week. AS FOR THE REST-\The County Sheriff\ at the Van was nothing more than a ten-twenty- thirty. Proctor's offered nothing worth remem- bering and the burleycue tasted very bad indeed after \Very Good Eddie.\ After we have gotten the Crane-Shirleys neatly smashed up and on their way, up they pop and decide to come back again to brave our scorn. Of course the conclusion of the G. E. strike is their reason for return. And that fact shows very well the calibre of the C-S.'s. We dedicate the pretty V. G. E. ladies to the sons of old Yale. Oh, you tEli johnnies! Colgate thinks Syracuse was Deliberately Un- friendly. We greet the coming winter with its vitalizing air, With its hint of snow-flakes coming back to cover bush and tare- And blaspheme the coming winter with its petri- fying air When the window curtain bellies here and there. While there's \LHe there's no hope for the Germans. Some one of these days the Crescent Park 'Squirrels will carry off one or two of those gap- ing individuals. We smile and admit the superiority of our theatdcal smash when we read in the Cornell Widow that \Some Baby\ \will be some musical show.\ When you dormant Contribs Throw off your leth- Argy And help us fill And instill This Piller of Patter With sensible filler, We will cease doing it in th- Is inane and under-handed Way CAESAR, BOOK I. All gall is divided into three parts: bumming the Riz La, bumming the Bull and bumtning the match. THE LITTLE MAID OF ATHENS. \We are seven,\ enumerated the little maid of Athens in a rather indecisive tone, \England and France, Italy and Russia.\ \'Then you are only five.\ \Oh no!\ she expostulated. \There were Belgium and Servia. I often sit by their graves and think!\ Tin1e is money, _jecided a certain Gennan. We era ve one bead of the Filthy Wampum for every hour spent a-colyumning. Robert Louis Stevenson, the great mind, echoed Keat'8 with: An aspiration is a joy forever. Oh, joy! Oh, how happy we are! We've worked three :bours on a French sentence and we can't trans~ late it yet! No, my boy, the French gas helmets were not irtvented in Pittsburgh. A Schenectady tailor has \those snappy suits built for college men.\ Undoubtedly, his live- wire collarings are erected for the sporting frater- nity and his \3hoes full .of pep, are especially ex- cavated for the univE-rsity A-No. 1 dressers. Probably that young Schenectady Pole who offered $100 for a slow poison has never smoked a Home Run. Despite the wa:- our heiresses are still picking up their dukes and earls. What a lovable pur- seonality has the Atnerican lady! I \' , I ! ' 'I' I ... \ I I I.

26 THE CONCORD'IENSIS. Thank~Sgiving time is here at last; We're home for turkey din-, No day to go, but a day to come And a Sunday thrown right tn. NITE. GIFT TO LIBRARY. Col. John Van Rensselaer Hoff, of the class of '71, now a resident of Washing- ton, D. C., has made an addition to the library consisting of many valuable books and photographs. The books, three hun- dred in nu1nber, treat of military, science, 1nedicine, and travel; the photographs, mounted on folio boaJrds, are of Indian dele- gates sent to Washington at various times, and of places of interest in Arizona. Col. Hoff, after holding the position of first assistant surgeon in the U. S. army, was advanced to the post of chief surgeon in 1898, and since that time he has held several important offices under the U. S. government. 1917 GETS GARNET AT REDUCED RATES. Work on New Book Well Under Way. The price of two 1917 Garnets will be $6.25 instead of $5.00 for one as in the past. This change was suggested by Manager Mande- ville and voted on favorably by the junior class at a recent meeting. The year book will appear on May 1st, 1916, this year. Many fraternity group pic- tures and individual pictures have been taken already, and several contracts have been let by Manager Mandeville for the printing of the book. \OMNIS CONCORDIA DIVISA EST IN TRES PARTES\ Classicists, Non Classicists and Regulars. The first ·regular meeting of the Classical Club was held Tuesday, November 16. Dr. Kellogg read an interesting paper on \The Satirical Element in Rutilius N amatianus.\ The meeting was well attended. Prospects for the ensuing year are promising. Although a definite program has not, as yet, been decided upon, the club is planning later in the season to give a one act play which Dr. Kellogg himself has written. Sev- eral out-of-town speakers will help to make the program of the year interesting. PRIZE ESSAYS On Prisons and Prison Labor, Offered by Adolph Lewison, President National Committee on Prisons and Prison Labor. Three prizes are offered for the best theses on phases on the prison probletn, prepared by students in the colleges and universities throughout the United States. For a Master's Thesis, one prize of $50. For an undergraduate essay, two prizes of $25 each. All duly mat,riculated students are eligible. The judges will be: Hon. Thomas Mott Osborne, Warden, Sing Sing Prison, N evv York; Prof. Samuel McCune Lindsay, Prof. of Social Legislation, Columbia University, New York; Dr. E. Stagg VVhitin, Chairman Executive Committee, National Committee on Prisons and Prison Labor. For further information apply to the N a- tional Committee on Prisons and Prison Labod:', Broadway and 116th Street, New York City.· A SKATING RINK? Plans are being laid for co·nstructing a hockey rink on the Hill. Last week the sophomore engineers surveyed several pos- sible sites for the proposed rink. Should the good work go through it will enable us to meet the hockey teams from such colleges as Williams and R. P. I. Years ago there was a rink on the campus, occupying the field in f1ront of the Chi Psi lodge, but it proved unsatisfactory on account of seepage through the sandy soil. There are many good hockey players in college, among whom. are Nat Finch, \Bone \Gardner and C. 0. Anderson. 1 \ wit , ces: i our i gloJ : har . cen eve bat noc

vv y, a- w a s- THE :CONCORDIENSIS 27 Football Term: ~'The Last Quarter.\ \THEY ALSO SERVE.\ War-Babies Get Word of Praise. While the varsity has been covering itself with glory by going through a highly sue- ; cessful season, there has been an element in : our success to which a g1reat share of the i glory must be given. The scrubs have fought : hard and faithfully all season without re- ceiving write ups, trips, nor in many cases even the A. U. A. They have taken their battering without a whimper and have al- . ways been on hand on the following after- noon to be pushed and thrown around in order that Union might have the only tea1n in her history that can boast of having re- turned from Hamilton unbeaten. There was an unusual amount of talent in the entering class and aside fron1 the three freshmen who made the varsity the most promising N eo- phytes were Bellinger, a light but stocky end from Herkimer, and Cunninghan1, a well built freshman who wiU no doubt hold down a regular berth next year. Nash, '17, was out during the whole season Cl:nd stayed with the team with bulldog tenacity. N ashie is a hard fighter and it will be no surprise if he is working at \Bone\ Gardner's position next year. Among the others who did creditable work might be mentioned Travis, Powell, Notman, Moore and Hunt. EXTRA! DEBATING TEAM CHOSEN. The interest shown in the coming debate with Williams is the greatest which has been aroused by any debate in some time, but of the twenty-two men who registered for the trials a squad of nine men has been picked for the final trials to be held the latter part of the week. The debate will, as has been announced, be upon the subject of National Prohibition, and will be held here in Schenec- tady in the middle of December. The men chosen at the preliminary trials on Monday are: DeForest, '16; Eddy, '18; Greene, '19; Jacobs, '16; Frankel, '17; Sternfeld, '16; Up- hoff, '18; Heatley, '18; Brown; '16. The chances seem bright for a strong team and it is not impossible that two teams will be put in the field this winter. PADEREWSKI TO PLAY HERE TOMORROW. Great Pianist to Play in College Gym. Students will have the rare opportunity of hearing the world fa1nous Polish n1usi- cian on the Hill tomorrow night. This is a chance to hear one of the worlds' most famous 1nusical artists and all students should avail the1nselves of the treat in store II .. .I L ,1 L· ~.·! i' j • ~

28 THE CONCORDIENSlS. for then1. Arrangements have been made by \vhich Union students can purchase for seventy-five cents tickets entitling them to occupy the bleachers. The tickets for ordin- ary adn1ission are on sale at the Cluett & Sons store. In the words of Charlie Waldron: \Be a high brow for once.\ Pay your subscription before December 1 st. $2.00 after that date Safety First! SAVE YOUR TEETH First, Last and All the Time. BEST Office in Schenectady for Skilled Service, Honest Advice- and Reasonable Prices. Hill Dental Co. 452 State Street. A JITNEY JINGLE. ''When 0Tpheus smote his blootning tyre\ He had in tnind the College Choir. We like the pleasures of the chase, But who'·'s the guy that's faking bass?\ -Ex. Clothing Furnishings Hats We're ready whenever you are. Why not come today? The newest and best in each department. Wells & Coverly Troy. The best is Gioscia' s Orchestra 301 Washington Avenue, Albany_ N. Y. Telephone 1452-R IT'S JERSEY That's All You Need to Know About. ICE CREAM I I I

John L. Manny & Bro. LEADING TAILORS OF EASTERN NEW YORK. 38 THIRD STREET, TROY, N. Y. VV e Display 500 Styles of English and Scotch Woolens. 100 References from Prominent Citizens of Schenectady. We rebate to all customers favoring us with patronage their traveling expenses ''The College Photographer'' GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 E. W. MANDEVILLE. '17 ColleQe Rep~eeentative NEAR BARNEY'S 1908 1914 1915 The Wallace Co. \Schenectady's Distinctive Store.\ Our superior buying facilitie!s insure our patrons the broadest, most ex- clusive stocks. Quality considered our prices are the 1nost reasonable here- abouts. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head\ NoRMAN-the new ARROW COLLAR.c. f 'lt fOV'2S Cluett, Peabody & Calnc,'Ataktr$ CLEANLINESS lends you an additional charm. It is al .. ways an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. We clee:tn everything that needs clean- ing-all high-grade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. 'Phone 1909- J 440 State Street Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. 'Phone 4489 WHEN IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS

' ' ! n L.a r LEADING TAILORS OF EllSTERl'J NEVv YOR.K. 38 THIRD STREET, TROY~ N·. Y~ \Ve rt.·hate to nil customers favoring us \\ ith putronu~e their na,·t . ..!ing t:xpen~c~ 60 The College hotographe:r' 9 GARNET l903 1909 WI-Il~f , 22 State Street 1 1 ;Q4 HHI) 1~)5 l')lJ. l9U6 HllZ! X9ll1 l'J13 191J8 t9H 1915 E. W. MANDEVILLE, '17 ColieQ® Repre~!2ntl'.ll fiw e< ~~ '\'' 1j ' ~~ 1 Ile l w 3t! 3iCe \\..-40o ~·schenectady\s Distinctive Store:~ \)ur ~upcriur hu~ ing Ltcilitic~~ iu .... ure our patr(llL' 1hc hrt\l;l l11ih1 (\{- ,·lu~i\'e ~t<H.:k:.;. < )u;dit\ cnn..:.idt·n·d tiUr 111·i._·(·..:. :trc 1iH· tll<hi r~_·;t-..(jn;dd(' lH-rt·- ahuu ts. ~ > The Best in C1·eam,. Butter, Etc~ Ferry Street Creamery Phone 120K 107 So. Ft·rrv Srr\,·ef \Look for r·hc Cow's l h·ad\ . -------------··-- ~ ----~~-~~- ----~ ....... --- ORMAN -the new CLEAI\TLil\JESS lends you an additional cha rn1. It is al- \\·'C:~)'S an indicator of refinen1ent. Our . \ I . . pnccs n1at~E\ c eantng a necessity. not a lu::xury. \ 1 -Je clean everything that needs clean- ing-ail high-grade v:ork guaranteed at very reasonable prices. \\ 1 e c<·:n for and deliver, S(:lnitaury Cleaning Co% 440 State Street ·-·-- ------- --··- ------------- -------- --- ---- -~- --------------~--~~---- Schenectady Taxicab Se ice Co. IT RAINS IN A }ITJRRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS --------·---------- ----:e:J-···11'-·- ,.,__,.,., .. ,.. ......... -._____,tl' _.. ,. ..... \'-~----ltl

The House of a Thousand Ideas '•. Clothes Created For You. Every Dollar You Spend for Clothes IN THIS STORE must bring you a full dollar's worth of style and service or back goes your money with no cross looks. That's the store policy we preach and teach. Good clothes need not necessarily be expensive~ The fabrics, the tailoring, the trimmings and the style in our winter suits and overcoats measure up to a full round dollar's worth of satisfaction no matter what price you choose to pay in the range we quote. $ 15.00 TO $30.00. HTD 455 STATE STREET \The Store That Creates-But Never Imitates.\ Schenectady ~ Art PreH

1 ----·----. -........--·--- ..

/

