' . ' 'The Concordiensis VOL. 38 APRIL 8, 1915 NO. 20 OLD SCHENECTADY COUNTY HISTORY Gives Interesting Data on Union College. In a history of Schenectady County, as it was in 1840, published the following year in New York, there has been found much interesting and valuable information about Union College. The college was extremely prosperous at that time in comparison with the reverses which later occurred during and following the Civil War. There were about three hundred students, for whom the col- lege had six professors and four assistant professors. It is interesting to cotnpare these figures with the present attendance of roughly five hundred students, who are urged on to higher learning by a faculty of fifteen professors, ten assistant professors, and twelve instructors. For a sixty per cent increase in number of students from 1840 to 1914 we have a three hundred and se·v- enty per cent increase in the number of the faculty. Of the early history of Union the book says, in part: which was· afterward used as a court house> but having been repurchased by the institu- tion, is now devoted to collegiate objects.)' Last October we celebrated the one hun .. dredth anniversary of the college on its present site. Of the removal of the college from the canal to the hill and of its sub· sequent development the history says: nin 1814 the trustees purchased a site ort the rising ground overlooking the Mohawk Valley, a little east of the compact part ot the city. Edifices have been erected at this place, each 200 feet long, about 40 wide!> four stories high, standing in a line 600 feet apart; a colonnade extending in the rear frotn each building 156 feet in length, by thirty feet in width, and two stories high. The other college httildings ate two board_. ing halls, farm house, hospital, house for a, professor, a number of tenements for ser,. vants., etc.\ In 1840 the various college libraries con· tained thirteen thousand volu:mes; today our library of more than forty thousand volumes and a long list of. periodicals 1s inadequate for our many needs. The total value of the college property at that time was about $448,000. A conservative esti- mate of the college property today places the figures at $1,300,000, and we have b~­ sides this, $975,000 endowmertt; \In 1785 a small academy was erected by the consistory of the Reformed Dutch Church, which after the establishment oi Union College, incorporated by the regents in 1794, vvas presented to its trustees, and used as a grammar school. Liberal dona- tions fron1 individuals, amo;unting to up- wards of $30,000, raised a suite of edifices in the heart of the city, the principal one of There have been mighty changes and big advantes between 1840 and 1915, and back of our progress and success thete sta11d the

10 ideals of u·nion that have n1ade her an in- fluential factor for good in the world, and that every day, growing stronger and stronger, will exert still further power in tht~ future. THE ELECTRICAL :SHOW. On Wednesday evening the first U niot1 College Electrical show ended in a blaze of glory, or to be more exact, irt a blaze of electric lights. From first to last the show has been a success and the results have showed its worth as a bi ... annual event. The lighting effects from the exterior were most effective-the whole lab. being outlined in colored lights. Several.hundred people were present Tuesday night and an evert larger crowd thronged the Lab. Wed- nesday a£ternoon and evening. A number of sub-freshmen from several nearby High Schools were present in the afternoon. The members of the Saratoga High School Science Club attended en masse. The show has proved one of the best rushing factors Union has had in a lohg time. Many Sche- nectady people attended the show in addi- tion to the students, who doubtless were attracted by the lighting effects. An1ong the exhibits were different means of lighting froltT the pine knots to the arc lamp, the X-Ray, the original Ruhmkoff coil, car heating machines, a wireless outfit and a complete telephone equip1nent loaned by the New York Telephone Company. Demonstratiort of electric welding and. elec- tro plating were given along with the exhibi- tion of a miniature electric railway. In Wash burn Hall were · shown oscillatin~ transformers and high frequency pheno- n1ena. Several freaks attracted considerable at- tention, a tnachine for testing resistance, a n1agic ring and an exhibit of frying eggs 011 ice. Upstairs in the lab. was a four roon'l flat with every modern electric device for up-to-date housekeeping& Much credit is due the manager~ and their assistants for this new departure which has proved so great a success. Twelve victories attd no deteats was the record won by the 11 niversity of Illinois basketball five this season. They won the champi,onship in the Middle West with ~Chicago second. 1915 FO'O'r:BALL SCHE'DULE. Williams, Fordham and Rhode Island State New on Schedule This Year. Mead Brunet, football . manager for next year, has announced the foHowing schedule for the next football season: Sept. 25-St. Lawrence at Schenectady~ Oct. 2-Wi11iams at Williamstown. Oct. 9-· Fordhan1 at Schenectady. Oct. 16-N. Y. U. at New York. Oct. 23-Stevens at Schenectady. Oct. 30--Rhode Island State at Schenec.., tady. Nov. 6-R. P. I. at Schenectady. Nov. 13-Hamilton at Clinton. Neither Wesleyan nor Hobart appear 011 the schedule this year and it is to be re~ gretted that we shall not play these colleges in football. The failure to arrange gatnes with these two colleges was owing to th<~ in1possibility ot arranging open dates. It will be noted that three new nan1es appear on the schedule, Williams, Fordham, and Rhode Island State. All three o£ these teams are in our own class and the games with the1n will be as hard as any on the schedule. The schedule this year is a hard one but the dates are well arrartged. There will be five home ga1nes and three out o£ town games. A 111odel of the University of Illinois can1pus, fifteen feet long and eight feet wide, which has been n1ade at the cost of $1 000 ' ' will be sent for exhibition at the San Fran'\' cisco :Exposition. '· ~»•· l .·~ ...

'· ~»•· l .·~ ... THE C.ON:CORDIENSIS 11 .. ' CLASSICAL CLUB. (A Lively Meeting.) Tuesday evening, thirty members of the Classical Club n1et in Washburn Hall anrf. held one of the best meetings of the season. After the report of the program con1n1i ttee, President Fitzgerald appointed C. Foster Brown chairman of the banquet committee to look after the club banquet which is scheduled for the near future. Dr. Kellogg reported on the progress of the Latin play, \Pan Soter\ which is now in the hands of the tnetnbers of the cast. Drilling will com- nlence as soon as the parts are well enough n1astered to pern1it good, live rehearsals. There are several men who hold important parts who really have much natural genius and from whom the club expects an excel- lent performance. After the election Agan '15 entertained the club with a very interesting paper on \Stoic and Epicurean Philosophy.'' Mr. Agan traced the development of the two philosophies from their founders, Zeno and Epicurus, and explained the essential like- nesses and differences of the two. The spread of the two doctrines throughout the ancient world was described in some de- tail. The particular tenets of each and the attitude taken toward suicide which the Stoics believed justifiable, were ~ntertain­ ingly set forth. Both creeds as religions of practice rather than theory, Mr. Agan showed, gained a better reception from the practical, I a w-making Romans than from their originators, the intellectual and intro- spective Greeks. The Stoics believed that the world was a part of the divine being and that the individual was a spark from the great flame. The soul at the death of the body returned to the great world soul. Evil, they thought~ was merely a false note in the universal harmony. Their motto was \Vir- tue for Virtue,s sake.\ Next followed the initiation of new mem- bers in which a number of freshmen were taken into the club. Dr. Kellogg in fluent Latin, and his colleague, Prof. Bennett, in flo,ving crimson toga, assisted by President Fitzgerald, conducted the mystic rites in the language of the Ceasars. The candidates were called upon in turn and gave their re- sponses in sonorous and classic Latin The ceremonies were conducted with great solemnity(?) in the presence of the older club men1bers and the new men were at length made members of the society. Their natnes are: Lewis Anker, Fred Bascom, Prescott Brown, Edward Cameron, Harold Cook, Spencer Eddy, Clyde Heatly, Wesley Karker, William Kennedy, Marvin King, Traver McKenna, Matheas Poersch, Leo Smith, Ignatz Stein, Beverly Vosburgh, John Y ounie. The paper was excellently written and showed genuine philosophic introspection into the spiritual life of the ancients. Mr. Agan' s course in philosophy here especially qualifies him to deal with such a subject. The next meeting will be held two weeks from Tuesday at which time Mr. Sharp will probably give a paper. Saturday the club will be entertained by their compatriots and colleagues in classical work of the Schenec- tady High School. Previous experience justifies the Union band in predicting a very enjoyable entertaintnent at the hands of their hosts. Next came the election of officers, the tnen chosen being: C. Foster Brown, presi- dent; D. F. Chapman, vice-president, and S. B. Eddy, secretary-treasurer. The re- tired officers are James Fitzgerald, presi- dent, R. E. Taylor, vice-president, and Jacob Gauger, secretary-treasurer. Penn State has instituted the Honor Sys- tem to go into effect immediately. It is very tnuch like the one already in use at Prince- ton. Violators of it will be suspended one year for first offense and dropped from col- lege for the second. :1'·' ''' ; I! ; 'I ' :! 't;. l ·,., ·' r I i I •' i ';

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS THE ENGINEERING COURSES Arr UNION. Cultural Subjects a Feature of Our Broad Curriculum. Year by year the tendency toward special- ization and a way from the general educa- tion has gradually become more and more pronounced. The special phase of this with which we at Union are particularly inter- ested, deals with engineering. We are a college in which approximately fifty per cent of the students are taking engineering cottrses. it is generally understood that it is the po1icy of Union to make its technical courses as broad and general as possible. For in- stance, in the Mid-winter Report number of tbe Union ,College Bulletin, Dr. Rich_,. m0nd, after noting the fact that a broad edu,cation is encouraged here, says: u: Our engineering courses also include a larger proportion of general studies than is found in the colleges giving similar courses. This may be seen from the following table:'' Cultural Subjects in Engineering Courses: College I Union ------·1 I I Cornell ----·1 I Princeton -- .. j R. P. I. _____ f • Worcester -·-1 I I Mass. Inst. f Tech. ----· f Stevens ----· j I Yale I (Sheffield) -I Syracuse ---1 I Freshman English French German I I I I I I English I French (El.) i English I French or I German German or French English Mod. Lang. French or German English German I I I I I 1 I I l I Sophomore l English I English Lit. I English French or German German Eng. Lit. English Mod. Lang. !English Mod. Lang. I I I I I I I I I 1 I I I I I I Junior . English History (Electives) I I l I Pol. Econ. I Pub. Speak'g I I I Economics I English I Polit. Sci. I Pol. Econ. I Gen. Studies I English I I I I I I Senior Economics 1 Lit. Essay Comp. Pol. Pol. Econ. Economics 4th & 5th Y rs. Pol. Econ. We have one of the n1ost general engi- neering courses in the country. Is it profit- able? The answer to this question is best found by obtaining the opinions of promin- ent engineers through the medium of their speeches and articles. When we look into the subject we find such men as George F. Swain, Harvard University; Henry B. Sea- man, consulting engineer, N. Y. ; E. L. Corthell, consulting engineer, N. Y.; J. Vi pont Davies; and numerous other well known authorities all condemning the re- striction of the college engineering curri- culum. For instance, Professor Swain in a recent speech before the American In- stitute of Electrical Engineers said that in college and in after life, particularly in the former, the engineer pays too much atten .... tion to the minor details of his profession, and neglects to consider the broader ques- tions affecting the community as a whole. Young men become so absorbed in tech- ,.

, . .'', ,, .-;Ail 'I W. •·, THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 nical details that it is with difficulty that their minds are diverted from these. He said further: \We may influence ·technical education and trv to secure a broader curriculum, .., with more attention to fundamental prin- ciples and less to technical detail which the graduate must learn irt the field after he graduates and which he can learn a great deal better there than in school. Let us in- sist on a training in the English language, so that our engineers shall not only be able to speak and express themselves properly, but be able to write a proper report, to mix with men, and deal with large questions in a h . ,, compre ens1ve way. It might be added that the foundation for this paper of Prof. Swain's was his concern. about the greater clarity of thinking and breadth of view exhibited by lawyers and busi'ness n1en than by engineers. This weakness in engineers he attributed to a lack of general education. He maintains that the young engineers should obtain a broader horizon by taking an interest in literature, psychology, and such subjects. Mr. CortheU in criticizing Prof. Swain's paper said that he agreed entirely with the opinions brought forth and that he thought the time would come when these views would be generally approved of and adopted. The best way for an engineer to rise is for him to take a liberal education along with his technical education. In nearly any engi- neering magazine we will find big men ad- vacating the broader education. Already we have it at Union. 1918 MEN HONORED. Congratulations to R. T. Allen on his election to leader of the Union College Glee Club. \Romey'' is without doubt the man ior the job and will lead the club through another successful season. \Reeves\ E1nbree has had the signal honor of being elected president of the College Y. M. C. A. Embree is a hard and C011- scientious worker in the good cause and re- ceives only just reward for his work in the honor conferred. Let us hope that \Reeves' in his ardor for our spiritual welfare will not forget the pie-socials.. PRIZE ESSAYS IN I-IISTORY. (Strong Competition.) Much interest is being shown this year in the competition for prizes in the history essays. The subject o£ the Baggerly Essay this year is ''Napoleon as a Civil Adminis· trator.\ Reference books are on the re- served shelf and Mr. Clinton has obligingly sent to Washington for additional source books for the use of the competitors. The 1nen who have registered to date are: James L. Fitzgerald, Thomas A. Dent, Earl J. Sharp, Leon B. Streeter, A vrom M. Jacobs, l{arl E. Agan, L. R. Van Wert, R. E. Tay- lor, and James T. Landreth. 'rhree men, Houghton '15, Fitzgerald '15, and R. Taylor '16, are con1peting for the Willis '\r. Hanson Jr., prize in local his- tory. The subjects assigned by Mr. Wald- ron to the respective candidates are: \The History of Union College During the Civil \V ar,, \The History of the College Chapel and Gymnasium,\ and \The History of Underclass Strife at Union Since 1860.\ These essays with others will probably be combined into a volume of college history at some future date. GLEE CLUB ELECTION. At \V ednesday noon, March 31, Ro1neyn T. Allen ,'16, was elected leader of the Glee Club for the ensuing year by this year's n1 ein bers. Allen has sung first bass for his three years in college. He is a member of the Psi Upsilon fraternity. Biologists have decided that women came before n1en. We should worry! They have been after us ever since.-Ex. ~· ' ', ~

I l I I I I 14 THE CONCORDIENSIS THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNfO.N COLLEGE. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, Richard E. Taylor, ·'1'6 ... _ ...... _..,,.. ... __ ... __________ 705 N ott Street ASSISTANT EDITOR 1 Nathaniel A. Finch<, ''16 ____ _. ______ Alpha Delta Phi House. LITERARY EDITOR, Av.rom, M. Jacobs, '16 ------------------- North Colonnade ASSISTANT LITERARY EDITOR, James E. Taylor, '16 -------- 7()5 Nott Street. ASSOCIATE EDITORS: D. F. Chapman, '17; W. M. 'Gilbe,rt, '17; H. R. Knigl1t, '17; F. W. Portet 1 '17; R. W. Schwartz, '17. REPORTERS: F. G. Bascom, '18; E. M. Camero·n., Jr., 18; W. G. Carey, '18; H. L. Cook, '18; S. B. Eddy, '18; J. E. Hulshizer, Jr., '18; E. L. Newell, '18; S. W. Talbot, '18; J.]. W~elch, Jr., '18. SECRETARY, F. W. Porter, '17. STAFF ARTIST, A. G. Levy 1 '18. BUSINESS MANAGER, Karl E. Agan, '15 --------------.---- Delta Upsilon House ASSISTANT BUSINESS MANAGER, Ho-ward A. Glenn, '16 --Kappa Alpha Lodge Entered at the Post Office at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class M~tter. Publication Office.: Schenectady Art Press, 206 So·uth Center Street, Schenectady, N. Y. ADVANCE TALK ON BASEBALL. Two championship seasons, football and basketball, are behind us and laid up to our ~redit. Another is before us, if we choose to make it so. The question which now agitates Union alumni and undergraduate fans is, \will it be a championship year for the Garnet?\ We shall not attempt to prophesy here, especially since the students of Union Col- lege have had their faith in soothsayers sad- ly shattered last winter-to their joy. There are, however, a few pertinent things which may be said at this juncture which do bear with some weight on the subject team itself is concerned several are alread V' .. in the best possible shape to begin work as a result of their basketball training. The others, as a result o£ indoor practice are be ... ing rapidly rounded into form. It only re- mains for each man, player or rooter, to do his part and let the results take care of then'lselves. Second, is the matter of support. T'l1e man on the sidelines does not co1n\\ p:rehend to thhe fullest extent the meaning of good warm-hearted sup ... port when the team is in a tight fix. The fact remains that it act .. ually is often the one thing needed to turn of a chan1pionship baseball season. the tide and since it is at once the least and First, there is the subject of training. We the most we can give, why not give it=--- as students do not have to worry much \rVITH A SPIRIT? We have able cheer about that. We have a coach con'lpetent to leaders, good lungs, lots of air and the teams look after that part of the progran1. Still want support. Does anyone see a possible there are nu1nerous little ways so often ,con1bination? outlined to us in the football season in which we can help the tean1 that it is use- less to repeat then1 here. So far as the Thirdly, :luck, which of elements there . lS . lll . the element of lS often a combination which pluck . lS not

. I l s 'THE CONCORDIENSIS 15 an inconsiderable ingredient. There The purpose of the memorial is to render to hin1 a token of our respect and to keep before the student body as a lo£ty inspira- tion the metnory of the literary and scholas- tic activities in which he was so preeminent. 'Caught from us in the prime of his life, we cannot but attribute this otherwise inex- plainable occurrence to the higher work- ings ,of a divine purpose to which we must bend yet know not of. Such being the case., it becon1es our duty to utilize as we see n1ost fit the lesson before us and to pre- serve it in lasting form for our successors that all may draw inspiration from the memory of Donald Coulter. are son1e stiff games on our schedule, but it is our belief that neither team nor student body have lost· heart at this most inauspicious occasion. We have a good lot of veterans to rely upon. A number of freshn1.en are exceptionally promtstng, especially as substitutes for the important ba~tery positions. There are no jinxes to be buried and no bad records to live down. \ . . As we have satd before the opportunt ty. lies before us inviting us to .come ahead with stout hearts and good Union spirit and tnake the best possible of it. THE COULTER MEMORIAL. The titne is now come for us to erect son1e fitting tnetnorial to the nan1e of our lately departed friend and leader. However 11.1uch we regret the occasion for so doing, we should welcome the opportunity now offered for manifesting in appropriate man- ner our love and esteem for one to whotn we can no longer render the honors which we once so gladly bestowed. It has been thought best by his classmates to allow us all to share in establishing a suitable re- tnenl brance to him. Let us be glad for the chance and contribute freely whatever is asked of us. The exact nature of the n1emorial has not yet been fixed upon. It should be neither too plain not too ornate; but something sim pie and tasteful to accord with the n1oderate, \vell-balanced mind of him to who1n we erect it. Inasmuch as it is the concern of all students, it would be well for everyone who has what seems to him a good suggestion to cotnmunicate it to the authorities in charge. SENIOR GREATLY HONORED. Austin Martin was awarded a University scholarship in Harvard University for the study of English in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. The award is conditioned upon his completing the work for his A. B. degree here this spring. Only one out of four who apply from outside of Harvard University is successful in getting these scholarships. It is a signal honor for the college and the man and will be accepted. MOSES VINEY SERIES. l.VIoses Viney was born a slave in Mary- land. Inspired by an overmastering desire for freedom, he ran away, going first to Canada and :finally coining to Schenectady, where he entered the service of President N ott. Moses Viney was for many years the idol of Union College. His character as a true n1an renders him a fit oracle and bard for the columns of the Concordiensis. He will sing to the students of Union. His feeling for Francis Scott I(ey and his love for the Star Spangled Banner are easily the outgrowth of his passionate desire for free- dom. His opening song follows :

16 THE CONCORDtE!NSIS TO MOSES VINEY. The cavalier winds o£ the chivalrous south Caught the amorous note from the oriole'~ indUth And wafted it over the sea 'Vhere a prisoner heard the trill o£ the bird ;Til the soul of the patriot started and stirred And sang a song of the free. 'I'hen a nymph as she sailed irt a fair pink shell Through the silver a.nd gold on a gray- green swell Piped the song to 1nountain and lea. ~he ripe cotton was white in its boll that day, The blast of the piper rang £ar, far away, A slave heard, a slave, and was free. Hail, hail, Moses Viney, I crown thee as seer! The glad notes of progress £all they on thy ear Triumphant, exultant, sublime? Shall our glory grow more as ages go by? Shall we gather the silver stars £rom the sky? 0, what is thy message to Time? 0, sing us the songs that well up from thy heart vVith all o£ the beauty and all of the art That live in the land of thy birth! 0, sing 'til the violet's breath fills the air, jTil the carol o£ birds is heard everywhe1·e And melody girdles the earth. DOES YO' HEAH WHAT I SAY? My lVI udder she soundly am sleepin' Way dowrt by de Chesapeake Bay; But her lub it goes wiv n1e ebber \tVhi1e de long, long yeahs rolls away. I hab trabbelled de wide V\torld ober 1 Mv wool it a1n streakirt' wiv gray; \' Yo' may laugh at de por' ole nigger~ Tonight when yo'r festive an' gay Y!Vay off in de home ob yo' chilehood Yo' mudder'll be kneelin' to pray. Yo' may trabble de wide world obet ~-ril yo\r har a111 streakin' wiv gray, But yo'U find no ptayer like a mudder'\; Young man, does yo 1 heah what I say? Yo' n1udder, she sends yo; to college She'd die £or to make yo 1 a man. Now I ask yo 1 , sub, on yo' honah, Is yo' livin' right up to her plan? I hab trabbelled de wide world ober, !tly wool it am streakin' wiv gray, But I nebber has had but ONE muddet, Young man,. does yo' heah what I say? DANCING TEA AT PRES. RICH- MOND'S. (A Good Time.) Tuesday afternoon the men1bers of the junior class were given the opportunity ot meeting the seniors in a social way at Pres. Richmond's house. A good number from both classes assembled and passed a very enjoyable time in dancing and visiting. Re- freslunents were served and no lack o£ cor ... diality ort the part of the entertainers or enjoyment on the part of the entertained was in evidence. The upper classmen are indebted to President and Mrs. Richmon<l for their kindness and cordiality. Y. M. C. A. ELECTIONS! On March 29, sotnewhat over fifty of the metnbers o£ the Y. M. C. A. met in Sil1i1nart Hall, and elected for the ensuing year the following officers: R. L. En1bree, '16, presi- dent; D. F. Chap1nan, '17, vice-president; C. F. Danner, '16, treasuret; C. A. Heatly, '18, secretary. Two candidates were nominated for the But I's found no lub like a n1udder's Young n1an does yo; heah what I say? office of president, and three for secretary, while Chapman and Danner were both urt·\ anirnously elected. I' r

t t ; y, I' r ' ... THE CONCORDIENSIS 17 \Fos'': Will you ruin your young life by smoking or will you grow up to be a man like me?\ \Jeff\ (taking a slant at Fos) : \I'!l smoke.\' \Ken judging a debate : ''We have heard argum.ents pro and con-mostly con. The negative wins.\ Lives of students all remind us We can make our Latin fi·ne, And departing leave behind us Notes. between most every line. \Fos\ :When I graduate from college I'll be a self-made man.\ \Jake\: \You needn't apologize for it in advance.\ \Who was it who said, 'Give me liberty or give me death'?\ \Harry Thaw.\ In spite of all the crocheting that our American girls are sending over, we ·do not think that the English are worsted yet. Knit!-Ex. The average income of the uneducated 1nan in the United States is $450 per year; of the man with a common school educa- tion, $750; of the man with a high school education, $1,000, and of the college grad- uate, $2,000.-Ex. TWO BOOK REVIEWS. (Local Professors· Busy.) Two publications have appeared recently on the campus which should be of special interest to Union men. 011e nf them is a pamphlet, ''Why Study Greek?\ by Prof.. John I. Bennett, head of the Greek depart- ment, while the other is a text-book \Elem- ents of the Short Story,\ and is the result of the combined efforts of Dr. Edward Everett Hale, Jr., head o£ the English de- partment, and his assistant, Fred Dawson. \Why Study Greek?\ is characteristically Bennettonian. The writer answers the question by the \retort interrogative\: '~What is the use o£ taking a bath, o£ comb ... ing one's hair, of knives and forks, of houses, poetry, music, statues, buildings?\ All o£ them serve to embellish the unadorn· ed life. So it is with Greek. The Greeks' contributions to civilization are reviewed, as well as the inherent value of the language. A.ccording to Prof. Bennett, translations do only second-hand service; only through a study of the classic Greek treasures in the original can we attain to a full measure o£ appreciation. They should not be studied on compulsion, but are, withal, far from use- less. \There is no Greek but Greek, and Greek is its prophet.\ 'l:'he pan1phlet answers the time-old query in a most novel way. The co1nmon motives, such as the training of the mind and the en- richment of the language, are not accen- tuated, as one would naturally have ex- pected. On the other hand, the case is pre- sented in so interesting a light that one can .. not help feeling that Greek can have prac- tical, as well as academic worth. It is cer- tainly a paper to be read by all those in whose mind the utility o£ Greek is doubted. ''The Elements of the Short Story'' is the outgrowth of a course on the short story conducted by Dr. Hale several years ago, supplemented by work done by Mr. Daw-- son in preparing his thesis for his Master's

18 THE CONCORDIENSIS degree. Mr. Dawson specialized in this line. To quote from the authors' introduction: \\Ve have presented a litnited number of well known standard stories. * * * In the study of these examples we have followed a very definite method. * * * We have put the work in such a form as will make the student think things out for himself. * * * We have, however, gone beyond the limits of our particular method in offering with every exercise suggestions for further read·- ing and study. Any ntethod of study, how- ever excellent, should give some opportun- ity for the student to read and think on his own account.\ v\T e have presented to us in this work a remarkably clever 1neans of becoming acquainted with the mechanism of the short story. As can be easily seen, the authors wish to en1phasize their particular method, and this they do by giving, so to speak, laboratory exercises on classic short stories, 1nostly American. The book is now in the College Library. It would be too much to attempt here a criticism of either of these works, but the attention of the students may well be di- rected to them. CONSTITUTION OF THE CONCOR- DIENSIS OF UNION COLLEGE. Article I-The name of this organization shall be the Concordiensis Board of Union College. ... 1\rticle TI-The purpose of this board shall be to edit and publish the Cortcor- diensis. Article III-Members of the Concor- diensis Board shall be elected by the Pub- lication Board at the last meeting of the Publication Board in the winter term. Section 1. All members of the student body of Union College shall be eligible for n1en1bership to the board. Sec. 2. Recommendations for the elec- tion to the board shall be 1nade by the Editor-in-Chief on a basis of the e:x:cellence of the V\ 7 ork performed and the amount of 'i\Tork perforn1ed, with the consent of the Executive Committee. Sec. 3. Special election to the board may be held at the discretion of the Editor-in- Chief. Article IV-Voting Power. Section 1. All members of the board shall be entitled to one vote at the meetings of the board. Article V-· Meetings. Section 1. Meetings shall he held at least once every two weeks during the collegiate year and may be held oftener at the discre- tion of the Editor-in-Chief. Sec. 2. Method of procedure at meetings shall be that defined in \Roberts' Rules of Order.\ Sec. 3. One-half of the members of the board shall constitute a quorum. Article VI-Officers. Section 1. The officers shall be the Editor-in-Chief who shall act as president, Assistant Editor, who shall act as vice- president, and a secretary, who shall be chosen from among the Associate Editors. Sec. 2. The above officers shall be elected by the Publication Board at its last meeting of the winter ter1n except the secretary, who shall be elected by the Concordiensis Board at the first meeting of the spring term. Article VII-The executive members of the board shall be the Editor-in-Chief, the Assistant Editor, the Literary Editor, the Business Manager, the Assistant Business Manager and an Assistant Literary Editor at the discretion of the Publication Board, Associate Editors not to exceed five in num- ber and Reporters not to exceed nine in number. Section 1. The members of the board shall be elected by the Publication Board.

f e e d g THE CONCORDIENSIS 19 Sec. 2. 'The Editor;.. in -'Chief.? the Assist- ant Editor, the Literary Editor shaH be . sen1ors. Sec. 3. ~\fhe Assistant Literary Editor shall be either a junior or a senior. Sec. 4. The Business Manager shall be a senior and the Assistant Business Man- ager shall be a junior. Sec. 5. The ~Associate Editors sha!l be . . JUhlOrS. Sec. 6. The H.eporters shall be sopho- U1ores. Article VIII-Duties of the Board. Section 1. The hoard shall issue twenty- seven Concordienses during each collegiate year on a day each week specified by the executive committee at the first meeting of the collegiate year. Sec. 2. The Editor-in-Chief shall preside at the meetings of the board; shall be chair- n1an of the Executive :Committee; shall ap- point all comn1ittees except the Executive Con1mi ttee; shall have power to assign special work to any member o£ the board; shall recommend to the Publication Board the candidates for the several editorships. The Editor-in-Chief shall write the editor- ials of the Concordiensis or assign them to be vvri tten ; shall correct the final copy and shall in all cases be the final censor of the sentiment, the policies and the make-up of the paper. Sec. 3. 1~he Assistant Editor shall co- operate with the Editor-in-Chief and shall assume the duties of the Editor-in-Chief in the latter's absence. The Assistant Editor shall give out assignments, collect the copy, correct it and turn it over to the Editor-in- Chief for final correction. The Assistant Editor shall perform such other duties as the Editor-in-Chief tnay see fit to assign to him. Sec. 4. '!'he Literary Editor shall correct the galley proof and final proof, shall make up the paper and shall take charge of having cuts n1ade. The Literary Editor shall per- fortn such other duties as the Editor-in- Chief 1nay see fit to assign. Sec. 5. '\fhe Assistant Literary Editor, if there be one, shall co-operate with and assist the Literary Editor in the latter's duties,. shaH take charge of the \'Exchange\ news and shall gather special stories, jokes, etc. Tne Literary Editor shall take charge of all drawings submitted to the Concordiensis and shall perform such other duties as the Editor-in-·Chief may see fit to assign. Sec. 6. The secretary shall keep full minutes of all board meetings.; shall read the constitution of the Concordiensis Board at the second meeting of the fall term and the second n1eeting of the spring term; shall notify all n1embers of their election to the board and shall keep a record of the mem- bership and attendance at meetings. Sec. 7. The Associate Editors and Re- porters shall perform such vvork as the Editor-in-Chief, Assistant Editor or Liter- ary Editor shall assign to them. Article IX-Commtitees. Section 1. The standing committee shaH be the Executive Committee composed of the Editor-in-Chief, Assistant Editor, Liter- ary Editor, Assistant Literary Editor, Busi- ness Manager and Assistant Business Man- ager. Sec. 2. The Executive Committee shall 1neet at such ti1nes as the Editor-in-Chief shall see fit for deciding the policies of the paper. ~\-rticle X-Amendments. Section 1. An1endments to this constitu- tion may be made by a two-thirds vote of the members o£ the board present; subject to the ratification of the Publication Board. PROHIBITION AT UNION COLLEGE. Like some other moral causes Prohibi- tion has never till recently enlisted the support of the learned classes-much less the support of our colleges. Our colleges and universities have ever been insitutions for culture and learning, but they have been slow to see the need of moral reforms.

\ I i I I I I . I I • l I I . I : 20 THE CONCORDIENSIS Be that as it may, the centers of learning are today taking a genuine interest in civic bettern1ent, and especially at this time in the case of Prohibition. C'ollege men are beginning to see the curse of strong drink and are now ready to agree with the re- former that the saloon must go. The students are forming Intercollegiate Pro- hibition Association clubs all over this coun- try in the various colleges. Harvard, Yale, Cornell, Syracuse, Nebraska, and many others have joined the movment in order to contribute their mite of time and energy to-vvard wiping out the drink traffic. One of the more recent of the ~alleges to organize an I. P. A. club is our own Aln1a Mater. This organization is not new, hav- ing been in existence a portion of the last school year, but due to a lack of interest on the __ part of ,the student body and perhaps even n1ore to the small amount of time which the officers could devote to this work it did not accomplish very much. What- ever has been the success of this club at Union, every student who is worthy of be- ing called a Union man ought to attend the 1neetings which V\rill doubtless occur every two weeks and help support them. Re- member that an organization cannot live without support. The club has not elected its permanent officers but only ten1porary ones, these be- ing, Clinnick '16, president; Fletcher '16, vice-president; DeForest '16, secretary; and Moses '1 '1, treasurer. At the next n1eeting the permanent officers will probably be chosen. This new phase of activity at Union will give character to her name. When we con- skier that Prohibition has been made a law in eighteen states already and that others also are beginning to think seriously about voting themselves dry we need not be afraid of risking our reputation. By joining the Prohibition army Union will be in a position to say, when the cause is won, that she helped the good work along and was one with many other coileges and universities that \\Von the day for Prohibition. REPORT OF THE BASKETBALL DANCE COMMITTEE. TOTAL RECEIPTS. St. Lawrence game, January 16 ----$ 2·s 50 \!Villiams game, January 23 ------- 51 00 Colgate game, January 29 ---------- 39 00 Princeton game, February ·.27 _____ 57 50 R. P. I. game, March 13 --------- 59 00 Total receipts -----·----------$235 00 EXPENDITURES. Music, January 16 ----------------$ 14 00 M .. J .r us1c, anuary 23 ----------------- 11 00 Music, January 29 ---------------- 11 00 M . F b · .r us1c, e ruary 27 -------------- 11 00 M . M h us1c, arc 13 ----------------- 14 00 Tickets --------------·----------- 3 50 Janitor ------------------·-------- 5 00 Total expenditures -----------$ 69 50 Total receipts ---------------------235 00 Total expenditures ---------------$ 69 50 Balance ----------·---------- $165 50 Paid to Athletic Board- February 2 ---------------------$'15 00 l\1arch 17 ---------------------- 90 50 Total ---------- -------------$165 50 Final balance --------------------$ 00 00 H. J. DELCHAMPS, Chairman. FRESHMAN-SOPHOMORE DEBATE. Although the date for the underclass ·de- bate is as yet undecided, general interest is being shown in it. The present sophomore class lost last year. There seems to be good material in the freshman class; three of the n1en in the Allison-Foote debate were freshmen. rro add further interest there is an individual prize of ten dollars for the best speaker. The sophomore class this year has the right of challenge. The sophomore ar- rangements are conducted by Forest Van A very, the freshn1en, by Spence Eddy.

es 50 50 e- lS . lS r- ': l •• 1 :: . If )'fJ.B waJJt anything from QUINN'S Schenectatly~s ·G reat'l!st Drug Sto.re Just Telephone 1285 Anytime Hast;, Messengers Deliver all Purchases Steefel Bro& ALBANY, N.Y. Over Plaid Effect Brown-Gray-Green You can't appreciate t!Je excellence of tailoring in our new over plaid euits unless you make a close and careful examination. We can't explain how difficult it is to match the plaids in the back of a tight waisted coat-but a glance will tell the story. Have that glance Spring D.is.play of W aU Paper ·:is now ready at the Sun 5 & lOc Wan Paper Store E'Verything in Wall.Paper Nothinlf Over lOe Over Woolworth's. ,Phone 4454-J. 41.1 STAT.E STREET. Schenectady 81 E. Main St., Amsterdam IZ9-131 Glen St., Glens Falls WATERS, Custom Tailor 15& BARRETT SliEET Imported and Domestic Woolens 15% Reduction to ,Stud·ents For samples and prices., se·e ROBE·RT N. LANDRETH College Hill, Phone l91S~J $4.00 TO $8.00 A PAIE All Style,s. EASTER FOOTVlEAR From The World's Best 1\lakers KANAN STETSON SUREFIT We ea.n surely fit and please you. PATTON &: HALL'S Sul\e FIT Store, 245 State St.

More College News IN THE Read It Every Day GAZETTE CLOTH:E.S S:HOP :FOR MEN 340 WASH·I:NGION 5TAE.ET BOSTON Suits. $25 and Up Flannels $5 and Up HENRY WANDLESS Old Gym. Donn. The Gem City Novelty Co. 6237 Bittner St., Dayton, Ohio. Nott Terrace Home Bakery C. LOl!EN, Prop. Fresh Pies, Buns, Rolls, Cake, Bread Daily. 'Pho11e 4258-J. N. K. McNEILL N:EWS ROOM Cigars and Tobacco, Ice Cream, Candies · and Groceries. College Idols. 108 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N.Y. , Cor. State and Centre Sts., Over Do11glass New Shoe Store 'There is no Music Like Giocia' s Orchestra 302 Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Y. Telephone. R tR 1 Rt a. a. a. Juniors This is for you. One portrait, (the best you have ever had taken) and a print for your Class Book for One Dollar. See W. A. Hughes, Pyramid Club, College Representative The Studio of Mabelle Primmer 241 STATE STREET Over Patton & Hall Schenectady's Leading Flower Shop 3Jultus fgtr ORCHIDS, ROSES AND VIOLETS 735 State Street Absolutely Sanitary. First Class Service. Ask the Man Who's been Here. The New Hygienic Lunch and Restaurant Most Sanitary Lunch Room in Schenectady Specialty-Reasonable Prices, Comfortable

Bellinger Paint Co. PA:INTS,, OILS D.ealers in all kinds of Wax Polishe& 212 So. Centre St. A. R. Zita's Orchestra ~di~ ;~:~ Walk-Over shoes will ta;lce .. _ ~ you anywhere and back. LET YOUR NEXT PAIR BE Walk-Overs. 407 State Street, Schenectady furnished music at Union College 1905 'o6, 'o7, 'o8, 'og, '10, '11, '12 '13 & '14 Best Da.nce Music in the World H. R. PHONE Main3483-W Off• d R '167 H 'It St A·Ib Only the Beat Service. None Better for Concert ICe an · es., · ami OD · ·, . any TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL JAMES F. BURNS El,ectrical Supplies. Study Lamps, Portables, Etc. 442 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. ~'UNION NATIONAL BANK'' 334 State Street Solicits Accounts of Students R. WIRTH Periodicals, Confectionery, Cigars, Cigar- ettes. All latest Desserts served at his fountain. Catering to College and High School func- · tions a specialty. Music furnished if desired. 135 NOTT TERRACE Bell ~Phone 1356-M. · Suits Made to Order from $18 to $35. A. GARUCKY Custom Tailor for Ladies' and Gentlemen Sanitary Cleaning, Pressing, Altering and Re- pairing of Ladies' and Gents' Garments. 870 Eastern Ave., Bet. Wendell & Morris Aves. Cigars . Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 600 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded ·Toilet Articles HOME MADE CANDIES N.H. Weaver CIGARS CIGARETTES 130 NOTT TERRACE N.M.READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER Room 7 4 Parker Building. Special Rates to Students Telephone 620- W LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST 1'26 State Street Eyes Tested and GlAsses Fitterl THE ROLLINSON STUDIO Quality Photography \Watch the Show Case\ RINDFLEISCH'S Artistic Parisi'an Dye Works 116 Jay Street.

r A Fresh Morning, a Fresh Mount and a Fresh-Rolled Cigarette -there's a combination to kindle a man's spirits with the pure joy of living I The delicious freshness of \Bull\ Durham hand-made cigarettes appeals to the countless thousands of smart, active, sport-loving, health-loving American men -gives added zest and exhilaration to their . enjoyment. It is quite the fashion to ., roll your own\ in any company, upon any occasion, with this famously good, pure tobacco. GENUINE .. BULL DURHAM SMOKING TOBACCO To millions of experienced smokers throughout the world \Bull\ Durham means much more than a particular brand of smoking tobacco- it stands for a distinctive form of tobacco enjoyment, incomparably attractive, delightful, satisfying. No oth~r tobacco has that wonderful, original, unique fragrance of\Bull\ Durham. No other cigarettes have the same delicious smoothness, fr ~shness and mellow-sweet flavor of \Bull\ Durham hand-made ciga- rettes. You can only appre- ciate this when you learn to \ ll ,, ro your ~wn~ FREE An l~lustra.ted Booklet, showing correct ---~ way to \RollY our ~~~ Own'' Cigarettes, and a Package of cigarette papers, will both be mailed, /ree, to any address in the United States on postal request. Address \Bull'' Dur- ham, Durham, N.C. Room 1400. THE AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. Ask For FREE packa11e of' •papers •' with each Sc sack.

-------------------------~-----------------------------··-·····-···-·--~ ·OF CO'URSE there is a~Iways a call for Dollars. It's true however that some of these calls are most necessary. Save for the nece&$BI'Y ones In the The Schenectady Savings Ban,k . COR. STATE AND CL:I·NTON The Edison American Plan All Outside Rooms NOYES His Complete Works The Gleason Book Co. Rates $2.50 to $4.00 Special Meal Ticket, 8 meals for $5 104 Jay Street Gleaaon Building Ed win Clute, Prop. Schenectady, N.Y. \On your way to the post office\ The PURE FOOD .Store THE MOHICAN MARKET. '-.1.__ The Big Store Around the Corner 161 JAY ST.REET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. THE OUTLET The PURE FOOD Store 140 JAY STREET, Opposite Van Curler Brokers and Jobbers of fine Custom Made Garments $10.95 for any Overcoat or Balmacaan in the. store Full Dress Suits For Rent Wally Girling representing WILLIAM KIRKPATRICK Exclusive Foot Wear -agent for- The J & M Shoe 132-134 Fulton Street, New York Sweaters and Banners R. E. REEVES handles our line in Union Arthur Mfg Co. Lowville, N.Y.

The Schenectady Clothing Co. Clothing for 'College Men Stein-Bloch and Hickey-Freeman Suits and Overcoats cut to your measure $20 upwarci Full· Dress Acceessories Arrow Collars Oakes' Sweaters The newest in hats at all times The Schenectady Clothing Co. 313-315 State Street Telephone 91-W The OAK Barber Shop 428 STATE STREET. M. F. ALBE, Prop. CHARLES· DERWIG FINE CUSTOM TAILORING CLEANING AND PRESSING. 18 Barrett Street 'Phone 354- W. Between Union and Liberty Streets. · ENDWELL Shoes Our Goodyear Welt Shoes fit perfectly and are very stylish in appearance; besides they wear like iron. What more could you ask? Endicott, Johnson & Co. 206 So. Centre Street Near State J JUiST WRIGHT SHOES Reductions on Winter Weight Shoes worth your while. Geissler & Ryan 173 Jay Street P. J. KENNEY CUSTOM TAILOR Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing College Clothing a Specialty Cor. lay & Liberty St. Schenectady, N. Y. 1\len who like 25 • Cent Ciga. rettes but don't like the priee should smoke .MURADS. 1Sc Makers of tke Riqhetlt Grade Turkish end Egyptian, Cigarettes in the World.

Stoll's Ho[brauhaus 162-64-66 Jay Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Will Serve Real German Meals at All Hours at Moderate Prices. MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT EVENINGS. Nicely Furnished Rooms by Day or ·Week. Telephone 1938. MAX NOWA, Prop .. A unique German place, Catering to private parties in and out of the house. Mandeville, '17 Representative on the Hill. H. J. Schwartz Tailoring Co. Snappiest Made-to-Measure Clothing at less than \Ready-Made\ Prices& Dress Suits from $25 up. 9 Proctor's Arcade, W edgeway Building. The Liberty Bell Adjustable Lamp A LAMP FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Representative on the Hill, Girling, '17. Hallbauer-Hardman Mfg. Co. 957 State Street. Telephone 1909-W Electric City Barber Shop EDWIN POSSON, Prop. Special Attention Given to Face and Scalp. 436 State Street, Schenec~ady, N. Y. Telephone Connections A.STOODLEY People's Baker 423 Union St. Schenectady, N.Y .. C. A. Whelan & Co. Cigars and Tobacco 301 and 443 State St. Schenectady Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. Phone 4489. WHEN IT RAINS . IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS Easter Gloves and luggage ,.\.WA\.t 177 Jay Street --~- 110 No. Pearl St. Schenectady, N.Y. ~ Albany, N. Y. REPAIRING SPALDING·s for nearly forty years-have been the ones to think out, and put on the market, things really new in sport. Are you posted on just what's new this year? A G S ld • & B 126-128 Nasaau Street . . pa Ing TOS. 520 5th Al>e., New York Send for Catalogue Schenectady's Leading Restaurant GLENN'S 422 State Street MY STOCK OF Fall Hats and Haberdashery is now complete.. An inspection is solicited. JOSEPH NUSBAUM, 336 State Street, Gazette Building 20th Century Lunch CHOCOLATE PIE WITH WHIPPED CREAM, OUR SPECIALTY 154 Jay Street, ''On your way to the Post Office\

SUITS FOR COLLEGE MEN Made by Hart, Schaffner & Marx Double Breasted Models, Single Breasted Straight Front Stylea, and the newest ideas in soft roll, two and three button coats are all here-all made for us by those \vonderful Hart, Schaffner & Marx tailora. College men like these clothes better than any other clothes made and the men of Union are showing us that they do. · We are glad to show them to you any day that you can give us time. 240-244 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY Schenectady ~ Art Preas ' :, _,., . . '

SUITS FOR COLLEGE MEN : ;:e a z 2 AtW •••• Made by Hart, Schaffner & Marx ~2 •• ?~ a•• : *':' uw =-= • e *RW1 • wm ::· ~~ Double Breasted Models, Single Breasted Straight Front Styles, and the newest ideas in soft roll, two and three button coats are all here-all made for us by those wonderful Hart, Schaffner & Marx tailor•~ College men like these clothes better than any other clothes made and the men of Union are showing us that they doo We are glad to show them to you any day that you can give us • t1me. 240-244 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY Schenectady ~ Art Press ,. • \ 1- ··'.... ' ( · .• ..,,. !·~ ! : I r ,~ ' :' ' . . .

'\ , '\'1 ·. . . , .. ·.· .. ' .. :t ( . . ' ,., . : ( .. ·.t '\ ····· ······. c -t(lflfJN.~~G£LIBRARi . .- ~ .• , - .. .• ' 7'. '.t. \__. • • :' •• ·; • • ··.- ... ·-r· .... . .-- .. , ... . . .. · .... - : '. ' ... ~ . . · ... . : ·' '. ·.• ' ; : .T~-_.···-·h······e···-. __ · ' .. . .... . . . . . . . .. . . . . · ·c···o· ·· . . ' \ . ··-o·_: ... · .. a·.···.;;· __ ··._ ... ·i_~·r·'··· ' · .. _ .. · .' ', ·.. ·... . - .. · -. ' ' . ' . ' . ; .. :,\,· . _ .. · . . ·· ... ' e· .... · s· .. : . ..·. ... . . :, ····· ' •. :. .·· ·.. . ., ea.· ....... IS .. Published Weekly· by the Students of Union College VOL~ '38 APRIL 15th 1915 . . . . .. ' NO. 21 ••• •• ' • • •• \ ', • '. f The Great Western Gate~)a:y

,. VOL. 38 ' \' ( ·~~..,.. !·~ ! : I r ,~ . ' ; . ' . . . JJNJON COJJ.f:G£ J.IBRARr. The e e one or leD SIS Published Weekly by the Students of Union College APRIL 15th, 1915 I The Great Western Gate~~ay NO. 21

·UNION UNIVERSITY UNIO:N COtLEGE The college offers the f()Howing undergraduate and graduate courses: l.. Cour8es leading to tl1e degree of A. B. Cr._ASSICAL CouRsE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. Frenoeh and German are in- cluded in addition to the andent languages. CtASSICAL CouRSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophon1ore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. 2. Course leading to th~ fleg·l'ee of Ph. B. LATIN- Scu,NTIFIC CouRsE-'I'his course offers Latin without Greek, for wh kb is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. :t. Course leading to the deg·ree of B. S. SciENTIFIC CouRsE-This course is based upon the study of rna them a tics and the sciences. 4:. Course leading· to tl~e degree ()f JJ. E. GsNERAL ENGIN~ERING Cou:RsE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- menta 1 principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SA.NITARY ENGINE~RING CouRSE-This differs from the general engineering cours.e in substituting special work 1n sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELF.<:TRICAL ENGINEI~RING CouRSE-This course is in tencl~d to ~ive a broad and thorough engineering edncatton wtth the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Courses leading to ~·raduate deg·rees. CouRsE LI~ADING To DI·:GREJ: oF M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. L. V. Herrington Groceries, 'f o bacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925-W Co-uRs.a L£ADING To DEGREE oF M. S. E. E.-This course ·<>f one year of graduate study consists of lectures, Ia11;)oratory p.ractice and research work CouRSE LEADING To DEGREE oF PH. D.-This course of two yean of gradt1ate study requires for admis- sion the deg;ree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For cataJiogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF lV1EDICINE ALBAN\¥ MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instqtction by lectures, ;recitations, clinics, lc:boratory work, prac- tical dem.onstrations and operations. HospitaL and labor:J.tory advantages excellent. Catalognes and c:irculars containing full informa- tion sent 011 application to: \N I:I:..LlS G. Tuc KE·R, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. OEP ARTMENT OF LA VV AMASA J. PARKER, ]. NEWTON FIERO, President. Dean. ALB ANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the un:iv enity is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses : M atr:iculation fee, $Io; tuition fee, $ITO. For catalogue or other in formation, address: JoHN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBAN'¥ COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instrt1ction compri'>in g- two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full in formation, address: 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. ALFRED B. HuES\l'ED Secretary, ''Everythin~ for the Colle~e Man except Exams'' GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS 727 Nott Street Ac-ross from College Gate Middle Section, So. College Phone 1472-W Fink's Pharmacy The CoUege Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate •

: ·. ,' ' ,I ' . t ·, . ' ,. ~ : ·' ·UNION UNIVERSITY . c:H.ARLES ALEXANDER .RlCH:M:ON:·.o D ·o LL D ·Chancellor·. ,,. . . . ' . . . ' ' '. ,. ! ,, .,. . ... ~ . •.• ~ ,. '. . . . ' .. UNION COLLEGE The college effers the following undergradu.ate ·: COT.YRS\E t:itADING To DEGR.R~ oF M. 'S. E. It,o.;,-;'fhis· . course .of one year of ·graduate study con.sists of· a11d gr.aduate courses : · • · lectures, laboratory practice a:nd reseatch Wt)rk. 1. Co.il:r~es leading to the degree. of A. B. CLASSICAL Cou:RsE A.-· ·.Greek is required for ad·- rni:ssiott to this course. Fn~nch and German are in .. duded .. in addition to the artcient languag~s. · '. CiAsSrCAL CouRsE B.-Students tnay, at the dose of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates · f.l!);f the .degree of A. B. They will then he require<:} to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is: p:rer.eqtli:site. 2. Cou.rse lea(Ung· to tile clegree of Ph. B. tNJ.TN-SCI.EN'riFIC COURS'E- .. 'This course offers Latin without ,Greek, for wl1ich is· substituted addi- tlonal W'ork in modern languages and science. 3. ·Cour$e INuling· to 1:he del;l:;ree. of B. S. . . ScrrtNTlFJC COURSE-· This coutse is based Upon the study of .mathematics and the sciences. . 4. ()ourse leading· t() \tlae degree of B. E. · GF,NERAL ENGINEERING Co1JRSE-This course .offers. the foundation of a broad. engineering educati-on, · ce>m.p:rising mathematics, the sdences, the funcla- m·ental principles of the special b.ranches of the pro- . fe-ssion and some training in history, economics and t11odern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERTN'C CouRSE-This differs fr<>m the general engineering course in substituting special ·. 'W()rk 1n sanitary engineering for some of the generaJ engineering stu-dies.· ELF.C'l'RICAL ENctNEt;RrNG CouRSE-This course is in tended to give ·a broad and thorough engineer-ing · erlncation with ·the special instruction requisite ior el..ectrical engineering. 5. Courses h·adlng \to ·graduate degrees. ConRsE ~EADING To DI1CREE ·oF M. C. E.-. This C()Utse of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. ' .L. V. Herrington Groceries, rrobacco, News, Confectiohery Phone 2925-W CouRSE LEADING T:o DEGREE oF Pll. D.~This cou.rse of two years of graduate study' req:t:1ires. for a.dmi's\ siort the degree of. M. E. E. o.r an equhzalent. . For catalog:ues or other in formation a.ddr·.ess : F. C. BARNES, Secretary, · Schene<;tady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT .O·F JV1EDlCINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-. · Instt·}Jct1on by te~t~res, recitations, clinics,. lc:.boratoty work,. p,tac- tical dernonstrations and operations. · · Hospital an.d laboratory advantages exceflent. Catalogues and circulars containing full' informa- tion sent on ~pp11cation to: WILLIS G. TucKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y . DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA]. PARKE::R, J. NEW'I'ON FIE~O, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee,. $r.o; tuition fee, $np. For catalogue or other information, address: JoaN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany; N. Y. ---·---·. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY~Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven moitths each. Fees, $go.oo per term. For catalogue giving full informati.on, address: 43 Eagle St., A,lbany, N. Y. ALFRED B. H UES'rED, Secretary, 11 Everythin~ for the Colle~e Man except Exams'' GUNNING '·16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW GOVERS 721 Nett Street Across from College Gate Middle Section, So. College Phone 1472-W Fink's Pharmacy The Co·Hege Smoke and Dtug Sh<>p Just Across. frorn· the Green GaJe • } ( . ~ ·• ' I. ! ,\ \

TR.ADE MARK The Guarantee of Excellence on Goods Electrical LATEST S!TYLES--MEN'S French, Shriner &: Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoes are worn. AU atylea and leathers LINDSAY BROS. CO. COR. STATE AND WALL STS. The Cain's Leading exponents of Modern Dancing in Schenectady and Vicin· ity. New Pupils received every Mon- day, Wednesday & Saturday, 3 to 5 and 7:30 to 9 p. m. Pri- vate Lessons b y appointment. Assembly on Monday at 9, at ARCADE HALL Res. Phone 1920 HQ/1 Phone 2710-W Fellows coFne down and get acquainted with G I El t • NICKLAS Phone 2322-W. enera eC riC . . . 169JayStreet Company Largest Electrical Manufacturer in the world 3759 EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER E. & W. Shirts and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk Hats, Ca11es, Bag& and Suit Cases. Everythiag for well dressed men.

TKADE MARK [IJ The Guarantee of Excellence on Goods Electrical LATEST STYLES---MEN'S French, Shriner . & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 :Known wherever ·Good Shoes are worn. All styles and leathers UNDSA Y BROS. CO. COR. STATE AND WALL STS. The Cain's Leadin~ exponents of Modern Dancing in Schenectad7 and Vicin- ity. New Pupils received every Mon- day, Wednesday & Saturday, 3 to 5 and 7:30 to 9 p.m. Pri- vate Lessons b y appointment. Assembly on Monday at 9, at ARCADE HALL Res. Phone 1920 Hall Phone 2710-W Fellows come down and get acquainted with General Electric NICKLAS r~9ja; 3 ~:;;:; \ Company EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER Largest Electrical Manufacturer in the world 3759 E. & W. Shirts and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk Hats, Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed m.en.

See the New Spring Styles at Babbitt's See the splendid display of Babb,itt Clothes as made by Rogers- Peet See the wonderful ''Frankel Fifteens'' the finest clothes tailored for $15.00 in America. We are sole age.nts in this tri-city terri;tory for these two makes BABBITT & CO. Albany's Greatest Clothiers 451-453 BROADWAY @) a..c:.,. THE PAST AND PRESENT Keep abreast with the times. We are not living in the stage-coach decade, at which time the mentioning of flying machines would have been taken as an idle jest. In the present cen- tury you wouldn't think of traveling as o'lie did in by-gone days. Neither would you ha v- ing your shoes repaired by the old style hand method way, if you knew tbe superiority in our up-to-date machine way of repairing. Higgins' ( Drawing lnb ., Eternal W ritinll Ink Enatrosaint Ink i l l Taurine Mucilaate Photo Mounter Paate Drawinat Board Paate Liquid Patte Office Paate V eatetable Gluea etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-sm.el1ing inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London BALL'S QUICK SHOE REPAIRING WORKS Opposite: Jay Street 2 71 Ninth St. 438 State Street Free Order Service Telephone 3456 Brooklyn, N.Y. The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM CANDIES PARTY AND DINNER FAVORS 31 Steuben Street, \ l ' j f ~' ,;;.~~. i:

\ l ' j f ~~ ,;;.~~. i: Harrison Fisher Famous Artist and Illustrator, says: ~'I have yet to :Find the equal ol Tuxedo. ,;, TUXEDO ina Class by Itself T u:xedo was put on the market l 0 years ago. It was the first tobacco· ever made that absolutely .. will not bite the tongue. Since then imitators have sprung up, and after having failed to steal the famous '\Tuxedo Process\ have put out processes which they claim are \just as good.\ Th~ Perfect Tobacco/or Pipe and Cigarette Thi's \Tuxedo Process·· is the original and best process for removing all irritation from the natural tobacco leaf. This process is a secret, known only to the makers of T ux:edo. To get the best-get Tuxedo. When you smoke, you smoke to get joy and repose- that comfey, gosh .. but-life-is-good feeling. That's why you'll like Tuxedo. Tuxedo is all pleasure and a yard wide. Roll those old creamy puffs ofT uxedo, from your pipe or cigarette, around in your mouth I Get that aromatic fragrance I Get that smooth .. as-cream tobacco richness! And it's all so mild and gentle you can smoke Tuxedo all day long if you like. No other tobaeco compares for an instant with Tuxedo. Get some and see for yourself. Tuxedo stands absolutely in a class by itself. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE Convenient, glasaine-wrappecl, Sc Famous green tin, witL aold 10 moisture prGof pouch. • • • . lettering, curved to fit pocket C In Tin Humidors. 40c .and BOc In Glass Humidors, 50c and 90c THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY .; I '.,' ,, :·:,: •·

ESTABLISHED 1818 ~XcrtiJIN- ---- ftntitmt~Gpttnt9 To Cure Cold til BROADWAY coR. TWENTY,. SECOND Nf.W YORKe Our Representative, Mr. Gorman, , will be at the Edison Hotel &n SATURDAY, APRIL 3rd, 1915 with samples of ready made garments, Furnishings, Hats and Shoes J.V IW/Jort Branch I 220 Bellevue Avenue ' Boston Branch 149 Tremont Street We Solicit Your Patronage. You Need Our Guarantee. Cluett & Sons. One Price Piano House. EVERY THING MUSICAL. 508 State Street, Schenectady , Maken~of Caps, Gowns and Hoods To the American Colleges and Ulli:vet•itiea from the Atlantic to the Pacific~ Class contracts a apecialty UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a ch.eck account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . The Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street .BUYA GAS HEATER MOHAWK GAS CO. Phone 2500 Pictures and Picture Framing, Art Sup- plies and Gold Gilding. Decorating and Paper Hanging. House and Sign Painting. S. E. Stanes' Art ~torr No. 7 New York Central Colonnade New York Telephone Schenectady, N.Y. I , 1 • > 1( \I, • , · ~,1 TWl,;l.!ll ,,Nf\f\·~~~ Hosiery, Underwear, Sweaters and ' KNIT GOODS FOR MEN UNITED KNITWEAR COMPANY 467 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y.

V4fi ~y Clothing Furnishings Hats We're ~ready whenever you our. Why not come to-day? The newest and best in each departm.en t. ,Sj Wells & Coverly TROY ''If It's Ma~e of Rubber We Have It'' Athletic Goods Rubber Goods A·:uto Goods A!uto Tires m Alling Rubber Co. 229 State Street 26 Stores CANDIES Huyler's, Park & Tilford's, Pirika, No- bility. FRESH STOCK ALWAYS PHOTO DEPARTMENT Complete in Every Respect. EVERYTHING IN GOOD DRUGS Lyon's 335 STATE ST. 714 HAMILTON 13 lVIcCLELLAN Cor. EASTERN Ave. KEELER'S ----EUR·OPEAN-- HOTEL and Cabaret at 9 P. M. Broadway and ~Maiden lane Albany, ~N. Y GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROO·MS Ladies' 'Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms W m. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway FURNITURE NEARLY 30 YEARS of honest dealings in Schenectady has placed us at the top notch of . retailers. When you read a COFFIN BROS. ad you know it is true. We aim at all times to carry the most complete line of Kitchen Wares, Wooden Wares, toys, games, fancy goods and brassware. We invite you to call. COFFIN BROS. • 303-305 State Street · Schenectady, N.Y. Fine Imported and Domestic Woolens Telephone 2323- J GEORGE A. MANNY· CUSTOM TAILOR 170 Jay Street Schenectady, N. Y. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery 'Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head.\

Ready to Wear and Custom Made STYLISH CLOTHES Comparison is the Lever That Turns Trade Our Way FOR Y:OUNG MEN This is tbe busiest store in Schenectady, through inviting Comparison with merchandise you see elsewhere, where quality, fabric, superiority ot workmanship and newness of design are important features and you will prove. by your own comparison, consistantalliance in aU our offerings and dealings. Just step in before you buy else- where. The 'COnvenience of an open account to all College Student is yours for the asking. 10 Per Cent reduction on all purchases of $10 or over if this ad is presented at the time of purchase. 503 - 507 State Street Schenectady,, N. Y. Saul's G. Wm. Slaght, Mgr. N. Y. 'Phone 360-W ' I AM YOUR NEAREST SHOEMAKER N.Y. Phone 1270-W All Work Called :for and Delivered Free The Union ~lectric Quick Shoe Repair Shop S. SOBELL, Manager. The only machine in the city, operating its own channel while sewing on the sole. Turns the shoe out like new. A few popular items: Men's soles, sewed ________ 75c Ladies' soles, nailed ________ 40c Ladies' soles, sewed _______ 6Qc Men's Heels _______________ 2Sc Men's soles, nailed ____ so to 60c Ladies' Heels ________________ 20c Our prices are as reasonable as can be asked. Best leather used and all work guaranteed. 603 LIBERTY STREE1', (Near Lafayette) SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Full RUBBER SOLES __________ -------- ------ ------------ __ $1.50, $1.75 ''The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 1905 1911 WHITE, 229 State Street 1906 1012 1907 1913 1908 1914 CARL DANNER, Beta Theta Pi NEAR ·BARNEY'S Collel!e R~pre•f'nh•tive 1915 ''RADNoR•' TH.E NEW A.RROW COLLAR 2 for 25 Cents. Let's Meet at ''Joe's\ New Dining Room Students' Tuck Shop A BREAKFAST BETWEEN CLASS A FEED AT NIGHT. ORDERS DELIVERED One Minute from Payne Gate. Back of St. John's Church. 'Phone 298- W. '122 Eastern Ave. ' :\ ' I

Th C d . . e • oncor : tensts VOL. 38 APRIL 15, 1915 NO .. 21 A PLEA FO'R THE GATEWAY. Urgent Need for New Project Made Clear. The bridge across the Mohawk River at Schenectady is the only means of travel from one side of that r-iver to the other for a distance of 53 miles. It stands at the en- trance to the Mohawk VaHey, the Gateway, as the Indians named this spot more than 250 years ago, and is used every day by 1nore than 20,000 people. It is the only en- trance at water level. in the entire Appalachian range for hundreds of miles. In other words) this bridge at Schenectady serves a population lying on and con- tiguous to the Mohawk River of one million people. As a result of the flood condi- tions of March, 1914, every bridge between Cohoes and Tribes Hill, a distance of 53 n1iles, was swept away, leaving this old bridge, the abutments of which were built in 1806, the only bridge standing. Realizing the im{)ortance of this structure to the trade and commerce of the State, the leading citizens of Eastern New York formed an organization to secure relief fron1 these intolerable conditions from the Legislature. The petitions were signed and the project was endorsed by sco.res of the representative men of the State. The State Au- tomobile Association, representing 17,000 n1.embers, has twice endorsed the building of a bridge that will lift the tide of travel forever above flood level, and eliminate the intol- erable conditions that have made the old bridge a menace for years. Boards of Trade all over the State have recognized that the building of a bridge at this point was not a local project, but one of State-wide importance, affecting the safety of the travelling public and the developn\Ient of the commerce of one million people. For a century the floods have been a n1enace to the entire valley. The climax· was reached, as stated above, in the Spring of 1914, and the water swept away Freeman's bridge, the bridge at Rexfords, the Aqueduct bridge, and in previous years the bridge at Vischer's Ferry, the bridge at Dunsbach's Ferry, and one end of the Amsterdam bridge, and only by a miracle was the old Schenectady-Scotia bridge left standing. Schenectady is not alone in asking for relief, for it is a condition that affects every portion of Eastern New York and the Mohawk Valley. The barge canal, now rapidly nearing completion, passes directly underneath the old bridge. According to the stat- isticians of the Barge Canal Con1mission, ·Schenectady will rank next to Buffalo in the atnount of tonnage and in the value of freight shipped, and the new structure is close- ly linked with this great project affecting the developn1ent of con1merce all along the entire Mohawk Valley.

10 THE CONCORDIENSIS. The Barge Canal is the vital po]nt in the plans for the new structure. The terminal at Schenectady vviU be one ·of the ]argest in the state, artd the state for years has main- tained the policy of erecting its own bridges across its navigable waters. If this were simply a local project, Schenectady would dig ·down in her pockets and build it, but the building of the new bridge across the Mohawk at this point is a project that affects thousands of peopilie outsi-de the imn1ediate radius of Schenectady. The old bridge during the Spring floods is covered with water and ice for days, making traffic of any kind absolutely impossible. 1'he narrow dyke connecting the ·western approach of the bridge with the village of Scotia, is a part of the State high- way and this, as is shown in a J?hotograph printed, is under four feet of water every Spring. The present structure was built in 1874, at which time Schenectady had less than 10,000 population. Today it is a city of 100,000 people, the most rapidly grow- ing city in the State. The travel across the old bridge has doubled, quadrupled, and then doubled again. More than 1~000 automobiles pass over the old structure every day. Two lines of interut~ban lines add to the density of traffic that has become ·dangerous. frhe old structure with its approaches makes it necessary for automobiles to make eight right angle tu.rns and to cross over at right angles. seven trolley tines between the end of the dyke and the entrance to State Street, Schenectady .. Schenectady has manifested her disposition to go to the limit in .co-operating with the state in asking for a new structure by agreeing to buy the land and pay the en- tire cost of building the approach of the new bridge. Scotia at the other end of the bridge has entered into a siruitar agree1nent. The Great Western Gateway League of the Mohawk Valley asks the State to build across the Mohawk River, which is no\v the barge canal, a br~dge befitting and beco1ning the historic and commercial importance of the Mohawk VaUey and the country lying north of the river. The counties of the Mohawk Valley and those adjacent thereto, to which the Great Western Gateway is the doorway, l1av-e been so bounteously endowed by nature and so wonderfully developed by its people that this section is destined to become the most vital factor in the future material advancement of the State. Here in the Mohawk Val- ley are rapidly co·ncentrating the industrial and commercial activities of our State to the extent that this section will, in the near future, assert its rightful title to a dominat- ing position in State affairs. There is scant space in an article of this character to describe in detail, by means of figures, the importance agriculturally, commercially and industrially of this section or to indicate in this way how rapid its growth in these respects has been. This section represents a very considerable proportion of the wealth and productivity of the State of New York. This is a section rich in farming lands, owned and cultivated by an indus- trious and enterprising people. It is a fact little known, that New York ranks first of all the States of the Union in point of farm production and that the Mohawk Valley is one of the richest and most productive far1ning sections in the world. Besides the canals and railways of this great valley, have grown up manufactur- ing industries wh()se products go to every corner of the earth. The manufactured pro- ducts of this valley exceed in value those of n1any of the Western and Southern States. The past decade has witnessed the development of an entirely new form of vehic- ular travel-the automobile. So re1narkable has this development been that there were

>· ! THE CONCORDIENSIS. 11 registered in New York State in 1914, 167,.740 n1achines. At the present rate of increase, ten years more will see 400,000 automobiles owned in the State of New York. The State of New York hy the exercise of real statesmanship, on the part of its legislators, has acquired permanent ownership of the great Adirondack Park, thus securing this vast region as a playground for the people of the State for all time. In this section 1nillions of ·dollars have been invested in hotels and summer resorts. Is it not the duty of the State of New York to 1nake this m.agnificent playground as readily accessible to the rnotorists as the New England States have made their resorts, and thus encourage tourist travel from the southern and eastern sections of the State to see first the wonderful scenic attractions of their own State? All these vast interests are a unit in their den1and for a suitable means of access to this great valley and the tributary countr~y to the north. It is little less than criminal for the great State of New York longer to deny this section and its interests suitable and lasting relief from the intolerable .conditions which have existed for generations. If the present enorn'lous development of this section is to continue, it should be with every possible encouragement by the State of New York-not in spite of the dis- ability under which it has been compelled to work in thre past by reason of the State's inactivity. This section b.as ever been ready and ,viUing to assist in the development of other sections of the State and it now sends forth a sumn1ons for relief from the conditions described herein. IN SUPPORT OF THE WESTERN GATEWAY. \As president of the college which has 5tood looking into the gateway of the Mo- hawk Valley since 1795, I might be assumed to have some local interest in this project. But speaking from the larger interest I must call attention to the fact that it is not a local proposition. Th~ great Appalachian moun-- tain system breaks its continuity here and the very name Schenectady means outside the door. This makes Schenectady the con- necting link between the east and the west. Many people spend much of their time in regretting ·things which ,were done at ai time when it seemed 1nost expedient to do them in a certain way to meet the condi- tions of the moment. Not only that but after having done them they are prone to look upon the thing, after it is done, as per- manent, no n1atter how great the need of alteration may be to meet the demands of the changed present and the ever-changing prospective of the future.\ Charles Alexander Richmond. \The origin of this bill is the need of a great thoroughfare. \Last year we had a flood that swept away every bridge from Cohoes to Tribes Hill, a distance of 53 miles, except this bridge. \It was the good fortune of everyone that when, about 111 years ago, the piers were built they were built by men who believed in doing good public work. \What we ask and what this bill calls for, is that the State of New York, which has created the condition here, shall build that part of the bridge which crosses the water and the lands that belong to the state. \The Lord Almighty created this as a passage from the east to the west, and the state is the guardian of the highway. \Autoists will say, the State of New York is so niggardly, so parsi1nonious, so thrifty in small things, that though nature gave us the only entrance through the great n1ountain chain, it was too stingy to build a suitable bridge at this point that Prov-

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS. idence gave us in preference to all other places in the United States.\ Robert J. Landon. BASEBALL PROSPECTS FOR 1915. The baseball outlook for 1915 is very promising. We have out at present a squad of some thirty-five men including nine men with 'varsity experience. The freshman material is good and promises not only to :fill in the gaps in last year's team but also to provide a good nucleus for next year's team. The greatest difficulty lies in the fact that we have at present no sui table diamond for practice. As expected, the new :field proved slow in drying and when dry, showed clear- ly, on account of the sandy surface, the re- sults of being used as a gridiron during last fall. Consequently the team will have to take the Stevens and Rutgers trip this week without proper preparation in the field- ing end of the game. We have, however, as our greatest asset, our coach, Fred Dawson. He has already this year, twice proved his ability to de- velop win~ing teams, and we are now con- fidently placing in him our hopes for a suc- cessful baseball season. He knows base- ball as few college coaches know it, and that knowledge combined with his already proved ability to make a team work as a team, rather than as separate individuals gives us a certain sense of security in placing these hopes. · Last but not least comes the student body. .Upon you depends the spirit of the team. We will undoubtedly n1eet with suc- cess. The best of baseball teams suffer from losing the ubreaks of the game,\ and \'base .. ball luck\ as it is called. We promise you right here at the start that as a team we will give everything we have to finish making this Union's most successful athletic sea- son. If you for your part will stand be- hind us every day of the season, and fight with us every inch of the way, the season will not only be a success hut will fit very perfectly with the footba.11 and basketball seasons. COLLEGE SCRIBES CONVENE. Jacobs and Glenn Represent Concordiensis. Glenn Appointed to Executive Board. The third annual convention of the East- ern College Newspapers' Association was held in New York on Friday and Saturday, April 9th and lOth, under the auspices of Dr. Talcott Williams, head of the Pulitizer School of Journalism at Columbia. The as- sociation included twenty-one college pap- ers and three new ones, the New Yorker of N. Y .. U., the Tech of M .I. T., and the Tri ... pod of Trinity, were admitted to member- ship. The Union Concordiensis was represent- ed by Avrom M. Jacobs, for the editorial staff, and Howard A. Glenn, for the business department. Both of them were most hos- pitably entertained and returned with so·me excellent ideas for the future of the Con- cordy. The Concordiensis was most favor- ably mentioned in the discussion, and sug- gestions were made that it be converted into newspaper form and be issued twice a week. Perhaps this is one of the possibilities that the future holds in store for us. Glenn is now on the executive committee of the busi- ness managers. This is a considerable honor for Union. On the morning of April 9th a closed business session for the business managers was held, while the editors were shown about the beautiful Columbia campus. At noon, the delegates were welcomed by Dr. Talcott Williams at luncheon. The past of the organization was reviewed by Dr. Willia1ns, and a n1ost glorious prophecy made for its future. Frapklin Dunham, of the Columbia Spectatorr welcomed the guests in behalf of his colleagues and responses to the kind welcome were n1ade by R. Mac- Donald of the Yale News,. and by Mr.

THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 CametDn of the Williams Record. The editorial men then adjourned to a business session where such topics were discussed as \The Use of Outside News,\ \Division of '\;Vork Among the Editorial Staff,\ ''The Use of Special Features.'' The daily newspapers predominated in these discussions, but valuable bits of information were picked up by the small college men. It seemed the concensus of opinion that outside news, such as Associated Press despatches, were out of place in a college paper, save when that paper served also in lieu of a metropolitaa paper; that division of the work of editorial vvriting was valuable in that it in some de- gree relieved the burden of the Editor-in- Chief and tended to make the editorials more readable and interesting; and that special features were very valuable in in- jecting variety into the newspaper columns. While the editorial session was in prog- ress, talks were given to the business men on \National Advertising\ and allied sub- jects. The business men were not com- rnunicative as to their deliberations, and so we can only surmise that clever plots were laid to separate the unwary advertiser and subscriber from his \kale.\ At 6:30 P. M. a banquet was held at the Hotel Imperial. Willian1 Kleitz of the Cor- nell Sun, president of the association, was toastmaster, and introduced, among others, Dr. Williams, of the School of Journalism, Colonel Willian1s, president of the Brook· lyn Rapid Transit Company, Dr. Matthews of the School of Journalism, and City Editor Mr. MacAneny of the Tribune. All of these 1nen gave interesting and instructive talks. After the dinner, officers were elected for the coming year. Franklin Dunham of the Columbia Spectator, was elected president. After the election, the delegates were con- ducted through the entire New York Times plant, and saw a newspaper made. Every stage of the process was reviewedJ fro1n the receiving of the news to the turning out of the :finished paper at the rate o£ 30,000 copies an hour. On Saturday, more conferences took place, and a trip through the Bowery and Chinatown was scheduled for the evening, to be followed by a theatre party, to be fol- lowed by an inspection of the plant of the Brooklyn Daily Eagle. With this event the convention came to a close. The association has doubled in size since its formation three years ago, and bids fair to continue this progress. It is a most valuable medium for the exchange of ideas, and the Union Concordiensis is fortunate to be allowed the privilege of membership. Union men will be interested in knowing that Morris Schaffer, the 1914 Business Man- ager of the Concordiensis is at present Ad- vertising Manager of the Columbia Spec- tator. \LUDUS ROMANUS.\ Classical Club Entertained. Saturday evening at eight o'clock a large and representative body from the Classical Club assembled at the Schenectady High School auditorium and witnessed a delight- ful little comedy given under the auspic~s of the \Aeneadae.\ The play represented a day in a Roman school and took in every- thing from a flogging to a prize oratorical contest. Mr. Brubacher, as schoolmaster, played the leading role and filled his posi- tion in a most praiseworthy manner. The visitors enjoyed every minute of the play and were unanimous in their con1- mendation of the work done in so success- fully rendering the affair. For the benefit of those who were not there a brief synopsis of the play follows : Boys and girls come straggling along to school, two of them accompanied by their pedagogues. The teacher being late, they proceed to enjoy the1nselves. All scamper to their benches when the pedagogues, who have been commanded to be on the lookout,

14 THE ,CONCORDIENSIS warn them that the teacher is co1ning. After the roll call, the teacher begins the lesson of the day, but is interrupted by Cati:line, who pays the penalty for his tardi- ness by a flogging. The teaching is again interrupted by a tardy pupil, Appia Claudi3, whose pedagogue explains her late arrival. The excuse being accepted grudgingly, Ap- pia escapes a flogging, but is obliged to pay for the unusual leniency by reciting a piec~. This arouses the other pupils with a desire to emulate her, and several of them are al- begs to be allowed to join them. After their departure, the teacher offers up thanks to Jupiter, and all the gods for this most auspicious day, and goes of£ the stage pray- ing that they will vouchsafe to him many n1ore boys to flog. lowed to speak. Gymnastic exercises follow; the teacher then gives out the lesson for the next day, -vvhich includes some verses to be learned. The geography lesson comes next. The two judges now arrive who have been prev- iously invited to award the prize in a speak- ing contest arranged for this special day, between Cicero and Caesar. The boys do their best. After serious consideration, the judges report that they are unable to decide, and that the prize shall be awarded by lot. The slaves bring forward an urn into which the names of both contestants are dropped. Fate awards the crown to Cicero. Young Crassus, the son of one of the judges, who has been studying rhetoric at the famous school at Rhodes, enters. After greeting his father, he is urged by the pupils to recite for them. He co1nplies. The pupils then rise to sing the school song, as the closit1g exercise. One of the girls begs permiss1on to give an exhibitio11. of dancing for Crassus. The judges, second- ing the petition, the request is granted. ~he school is then dismissed. All the pupils con1e up to say good-bye to the judges and the teacher, two of them presenting gifts to the teacher, whose only pay con- sists of such voluntary offerings. After all have departed, the judges con- Next Wednesday, April 21, the students of Union College will have the opportunity of hearing Hamilton Holt who is famous for his activity in the American Peace Society. He was one of the representatives at the Hague conference. It will be remembered that he spoke here two or three years ago. PLEASE! This is the all important time of year for making or breaking the beauty of the cam pus. The rain of the past week has brought a fresh green to the grass and all the foliage on the hill is beginning to brighten up. We want the campus to look better than ever this summer, particularly at commencement. We cannot keep the grass in good condition though, as long as some of us find more pleasure in walking on the sod than on the cinder paths. Have a heart, fellows,. and-''Keep off the grass!\ COLLEGE AND FRATERNITY RELA .. TIONS AT NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY. New Plans in Force at Northwestern Re- viewed by the Outlook. Northwestern University is undertaking a plan, new for them, of dealing with collefSC fraternities. The .University is trying the policy of regulation. Nearly $500,000 has been spent on arranging a quadrangle· of fraternity houses and dormitories for non.- fraterni ty men. The authorities of the University helped gratulate the teacher on his fine school. Crassus, senior, bids his son to accompany him to the Forum, whereupon the other judge the undergraduates and alumni of the dif- ferent fraternities to secure credit and the houses, harmonious in design and material have been built in the Florentine style of >: I . ' ) ' !

>: I , ' ! THE CONCORDIENSIS 15 architecture. The land was given by the college for the use of the fraternities; the title of all the property, however, rematns with the institution. The Outlook tells of the new plan at 1~ orthwestern and of the ,conditions there as follows: '''When President Harris went to North- western University, he tells us, he found a nun1ber of National fraternities and some local clubs. Most of them were paying renl, and were located in various parts of Evans- ton; none of the chapters owned their nwn ho1nes. They were stnall in numbers; and they were too much given to social activities. President Harris believes that wherever peo-· ple are thrown together groups will be formed by natural gravitation. The frater- nities were imbedded in the University; and, instead of antagonizing them, it seemed to hitn wise to utilize their strength and en- thusiasn1 for the good of the University and of the students. The solution of the quadrangle of fraternity houses adjoining non-fraternity dormitories, where all the men would live together under the sa1ne circumstances, offered itself. Both classes of students are now constantly thrown to- gether under the same material conditions; their expenses have been greatly reduced, as a year's experience with one of the quad- rangles has shown; and, President Harris believes, the spirit of a broad and true demo- cracy has been greatly fostered. In his judg- ment, the planting of the fraternities in per- Inanent homes, the University holding the title, has not only cut down the expense, but has enlarged the chapters, improved the discipline of the institution, and largely re- moved the tendencies towards exclusiveness and snobbishness which have been devel- oped in some cases under the fraternity sys- ten1. The endeavor is being n1ade to foster a strong social feeling in the non-fraternity houses, so that when the alumni return they will feel at hon1:e in the houses in which they formerly lived, precisely as the fraternity alumni feel. \Mr. Henry vV. Austin, of Chicago, who has recently won his seat in the State Sen- ate after a struggle o£ several months, de- clares that there is a new spirit in the col- lege fraternity of to-day. Mr. Austin is him~ self president of one of the largest and most influential of the fraternities. He thinks the criticism to which the fraternities have been subjected in late years has been ex- tremely beneficial to them, developing more intimate relations with the colleges, better discipline, and the stimulation of the schol- arly spirit. Mr. Austin believes that frater- nity organization can be used so as to be of very great service to the undergraduates, as regards their morality, their scholarship, and the clearer definition of their ideals. PRESS CLUB BANQUET. The Press Club Scribes Hold Their Annual Feed With Professor March as Toastmaster. Twenty-three me1nbers and guests of the Press Club attended the Club's annual ban- quet held at Glenn's Friday evening, April 9. Professor March acted as toastmaster and in his opening retnarks spoke as follows: \My position here this evening is somewhat similar to that of the tramp who had been given a bountiful dinner by a benevolent old lady. At the end of the meal, being desirous to show his gratitude, to his benefactress he inquired if he could not chop some wood for her. 'I do not use wood,' the lady re- plied. 'Then can't I bring up a few scuttles of coal?' the tramp enjoined. 'I don't use coal;' was the answer, 'I use gas.' 'Then can't I turn on the gas?' said the tramp. I suppose that I am here to turn on the gas. \Vhen I was first asked to speak here this evening I was somewhat at a loss to ac- count for my being selected to speak at a

I i • I \ l ! l I I 16 m~eting o:f the Press ~Club, but I finally con- cluded that as I have had some connection with literature and poetry and the imagina- tive arts, -I was deemed suited to speak at a gathering of reporters, for reporting is an imaginative art.\ Mandeville, the retiring president, was the first speaker. He spoke o£ his connection with the Press Club and expressed his re- gret at leaving it. In concluding his re- marks he praised the loyalty of the club's members who give their services without receiving any material reward in l.ieturn. Jeff Del champs was the next speaker; he touched upon his work in the Club and as Editor-in-Chief of the Conco~rdy, with special reference to the latter. He was followed by Joe Soler, the newly elected president!' who made a brief and pointed speech. He -urged that all the junior members of the Club re- main with the Club next year and giv,e their earne?t support and aid. The last speaker was Dr.; Hill. In presenting him Proiessor March said. that Dr. Hill's. right to be )?tom-- inent in Press Club affairs arose not alone from the fact that he had had ne-vvspa:per experience but also because he was con- cerned with such imaginative subjects as economics, political economy, and S9- ciology. '' It has been n1.y good fortune,\ he said, \to read several works on soci<>logy, and in all of them an attempt was made in the ?rst two or three chapters to prove that there is such a thing as sociology, which certainly requires a good deal o£ imagina- tion.\ Dr. Hill spoke at length on special aspects o£ the work the Press Club is carry- ing on. At the conclusi-on o£ his remarks a toast to the success o£ th~ Club was drunk with great enthusiasm, \even if there was only water,\ as Professor March remarked. Alma Mater was then sung and the good folk dispersed; some to complete the ~ven­ ing with a1nusement, histrionic ; some perhaps, to quaff the spring-time 13ock, while others betook then1selves to inhibi- tions at Wisdom's fountains; ye scribe hied him straightway home to prepare his lucu- bration on ye evening's festivities for ye 'Concordy. DRAMATlC :CLUB MAY GIVE PLAY;; Re.vived Interest in Dramatics May Lead to .a Reproduction of \Arms and the Man.'' John Holland, Union, ex:-'15, is being men- tioned by members: of the Dramatic Club to coach the annual undergraduate play here this spring. Mr. Holland got his dramatic training at the Belasco School o£ Dramatic Art in New York City, and later in stock companies. He has been very successful and is entirely competent to coach a play at college. His ho.me is in Schenectady. At a recent meeting o£ the thespians it \\iV~as tentatively decided to produce one of George Bernard Shaw's \Pleasant Plays'; this year. ''Arms and the Man'; was :fi.nallv '\ chosen and Walter 13 aker is in correspond- ence with the publishers tor procuring rights for this popular and amusing comedy. 'the question of student support has been the principal issue that has caused the Dramatic Club to remain inactive this sea- son. It is felt that there is not enough in ... terest. in dramatics here to warrant an-v heavy expenditures. The management does not £eel equal to supporting any deficit which might occur. Various suggestions to remedy this condition have been offered. One that met with most hearty approval was the suggestion to lower the price or tickets for any play from one dollar to fifty cents. It is £el t that the increased number of m.en who would attertd under such con ... ditions would warrant the reduction in • pnce. I£ the producing rights of\ \Arms and the Man\ can be secured, the play will probablv . - be gtven during the last part of May. Columbia is considering making basketball a major sport. I .

I . THE CONCORDIENSIS. 17 THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION CO~LLEGE. ' EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, Richard E. Taylor, '16 --..---.---------------- 705 Nott Street. ASSISTANT EDITOR, Nathaniel A. Finch, '16 ---------- Alpha Delta Phi House. LITERARY EDITOR, Avrom M. Jacobs,. '16 ------------------- North Colonnade ASSISTANT LITERARY EDITOR, James B. Taylor, '16 -------- 705 Nott Street. ASSOCIATE EDITORS: D. F. Chapman, '17; W. M. Gilbert, '17; H. R. Knight, '17; F. W. Porter, '17; R. W. Schwartz, '17. REPORTERS: F. G. Bascom, '18; E. M. Cameron, Jr., 18; W. G. Carey, '18; H. L. Cook, '18; S. B. Eddy, .'18; J. E. Hulshizer, Jr., '18; E. L. Newell, '18; S. W. Talbot, '18; J. J. Welch, Jr., '18. SECRETARY, F. W. Porter, '17. STAFF ARTIST, A. G. Levy, '18. BUSINESS MANAGER, Karl E. Agan, '15 ------------------ Delta Upsilon House ASSISTANT BUSINESS MANAGER, Howard A. Glenn, '16 __ Kappa Alph.a Lodge Entered at the Post Office at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter .. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press, 206 South Center Street,. Schenectady, N. Y. THE WESTERN GATEWAY. It is with a feeling of most complete satisfaction and confidence in the merit of our cause that we, as students. of .Union College, under the leadership of President Rich- lnond, align ourselves with the supporters of the Great Western Gateway movement. We do. not advocate it merely because we realize that the erection of a boulevat·d bridge at this point in the Mohawk Valley would add beauty to our city and would incidentally make our college and its environs more attractive, but because there is an imperative need for such a work and no good can come of delay in building it. The old bridge! has long passed its normal period of usefulness and is even dangerous and unserviceable in tin1es of high water. What the public wants is a viaduct from the \highlands of Schenectady to the highlands of Glenville--one which will place the tide of travel for- ever above the Mohawk floods and which will eliminate the intolerable conditions that past generations have been forced to endure-a bridge befitting and becoming the his- toric and commercial importance of the Aiohawk Valley.\ PUBLIC SAFETY VERSUS ANTI-MILITARISM. There is probably no subject at the present tin1e which occupies a more prominent position in the minds of college students throughout the country generally than the mat- ter of military training in schools and coileges. That the question readily admits of two views, each strongly chatnpioned by men of unquestioned worth and each diametric- ally opposed to the other is manifest from the fact that two antagonistic s-ocieties have been formed. The names of these two organizations are the National Security League and the Collegiate Anti-Militarism League. In order to view the subject fairly, we shall endeavor to set forth as accurately as possible the position taken by the latter

I I l . 18 THE CONCORD·IENSIS society before advancing views on the other sid.e, which is our position. The following are verbatim the words from a co·mmunication of the Collegiate Anti-Militarism League, addressed to the editor of the Concordiensis: \Some time past we mailed you an enclosuve conce1ning militarism both here and abroad. Since then an agitation for con1pulsory military service for college men bas been started by the National Security League. Various papers, such as the New York Times, Puck and others, have advocated this idea and ha-ve attracted some attention by their proposals. \It is our belief that such a movement is unnecessary and in the highest degree vicious. Tho its advocates may declare that they are opposed to militarism, yet wiH- ingly or not they are really fostering its spread. And. o£ aU times, to-day would seen1 to be the least opportune for such a deveiopment in America. * * *to-day when other ·ountries are most anxious for our friends.IJip. The least that can be said is that college n1en should be left free to study a better way out of international difficulties, than the old and so drastically unsatisfactory one of huge armarncnts and military castes. \The proposal strikes all college men very close at home. The Collegiate Anti- Militarism League feels that there is a greater field for college rrien than the preparation for war. Opportunities for social service are on every side, and their benefits far great- er than those of military service, both nationally and internationally. Why should col- lege men, of all the possible recruits, be drafted into an inadequate system of secur- ity? Should not they, of all the nations, be allowed to stttdy more civilized methods?\ The advocates of anti-militarism seem to us to err in four essential particulars. First, they assume that military training in college wou'ld develop into a system which would alter our friendly relations with foreign nations. Second, that it would interfere with a college man's freedom \to study better ways out of international difficulties.\ Third, by saying that there is a \greater field for col1ege men than the preparation for war,\ they either imply that a college man cannot be preparing for some other form of service to his country at the same time that be is taking military training or that, hav- ing received military training, he must use it at all costs. Personally we do not be- lieve that the anti-militarists take the latter view tho11gh even such an absurd position is sometimes taken by their adherents. Fourth~ they ask why college men, of all the possible recruits, should be drafted into this system and not be allowed to study more civilized methods. In answer to this last point, we would say that in the first place when the nation needs defenders the college man has no moral or legal grounds on which to base his exemption from the common duty and in the second place, ''of all the possible recruits\ the college man, as in all other lines of human activity, would be the best fitted to act as leader and guide especially if he had had the advantage of military training. More- over we do not think that a few hours healthful exercise every week in 1nilitary drill would very seriously interfere with his study of \more civilized methods.\ r ,. ~.1 l \ ~~

r ,. ~.1 l THE CON'O'ORDIENSIS 19 1n regard to the frieaGlship of foreign nations we should like to have our opponents cite instances of countries which are especially popular with their feUows because they are not capable of defending themselves, Such ones as Poland, China, India-the whole of Africa belong in this categogry but they pay a dear price indeed £or their popularity by being considered as \subje€ts for colonization by fo~eign powers.\ This position of the powers in regard to America was, we recall, condemned by President Monroe. Further, we feel that a few words of noderation should be spoken in regard to h 1 . h \'h \ d \ ·1· · · '' 'Th. f ·1· t ose g ar1ng p rases: · · -uge armaments an m11tary castes.. · 1s system o mll- tary training in schoo1s and colleges which we advocate would be in direct opposition to the \huge armaments-''' of militaristic countries like ·Germany and would in the true sense of the word be ooe of \anti-militarism.\ At almost no additional expense (what expense there was would be amply repaid. by the value of the universal physical train- ing) we would have an ever increasing reserve force-not standing army-which after g-raduation would meet perhaps five or six days per year at appointed centers for train- ing, and during the remainder of the time would be completely absorbed into the cit- izenry of the country. This does not look much like the accepted type of mititaris1n, but rather takes the only rational position between militarism and total unpreparedness. As to military castes, reason and actual fact show us that such a thing is impossible save under an absolute and imperial government where a tottering nobility seizes upon war as the only method of diverting the attention of oppressed subjects from revolutionary or Socialistic activity. This surely cannot be the case in the United States nor do the well governed count;ries of Enrope show this tendency. In writing this editorial we have not .endeavored to \make talk\ or to start an argu- ment but have dealt with what we believe to be one of the most vital questions of the day cooly and conscientiously. We believe that it is the solen1n duty of the college men of the ,country to place then1.selves in readiness· to render by their training, adequate and efficient service both civic and miljtary whenever the call con1es and that power, without which no nation can live, would never be misused by those whom for- tune has destined to becon1e the leaders of their fellow men. (The Editor would greatly appreciate criticis1ns, whatever their nature, from anv source and reserves the privilege to publish them in the Concordiensis.) MR. DALTON ADDRESSES VESPERS. Vespers on Sunday last,. were addressed by Mr. Willian~ Dalton, c:bief engineer of has been a very good friend of the College and the way in which the students turned out showed to what extent he is liked. The address was on the \College Man Being Re- the American Locomotive Co. Mr. Dalton ligious.\

A ~UMP IN TME COACH DAWSON'S BASEBALL BOOK Fred Dawson and W. J. Clarke Publish Book of Baseball Lore. Our own Fred Dawson is co-author with \Villi am J. Clarke, former catcher on the famous Baltimore Orioles and other major league teams and at present head coach of the Princeton baseball tea1n, of a book en- titled \Baseball-Individual Play and Teanl P1ay in Detail,\ published recently by Scrib- ner's, New York. The advertisement sun1marizes the con·· tents thus: \A con1plete, scientific exposi-- tion of the gatne containing simple and concise yet detailed studies of the play or each position separately, and under the head of tean1 play in combination; together with expositions of the principles of 'Batting,' 'Base Running,' and general training.\ It is a practical handbook of the game, done not from the journalistic but rather from the scientific point of view and therefore of great value to active players and would-be players, and not merely for the fan. At the sa1ne tin1e the subject is treated simply and plain- ly so that it does not need a mind stored with the technicalities of baseball to appre- ciate it. 'rhe contents o£ \Baseball\ include a chap ... ter on the playing of each position, a chap ... I~ ','!

','! IGHWAY HAVE YOU~ MONEY READY ter on batting, one on base-running, one on tean1 play, and two final chapters entitled \Hints to College Players\ and \Hints to Spectators.\ A large nurqber of well-ex- plained diagrams complete the book. N u- n1erous photographic plates convey definite pictures of specific points that need to be graphically brought out. The illustrations include photographs of the various ways of pitching different curves; the fall-away slide, footwork on the bases, and others. \Baseball\ is distinctly a handbook or text book. A feature of special interest is the use of cross-referen.ces in explaining plays. The use of cross-references is quite a novel idea and brings to the reader a great- er understanding of team play and individual play than has been possible before. The diagrams are quite unique in their illustrat- ing of the ntaking of plays, the backing up of bases, etc. The book is the fruit of \Bill\ Clarke's 14 years' experience as a big leaguer and his nine years' vvork as coach at Princeton. During this time he has turned out six championship teams for the Orange and Black. Fred Dawson was an apt pupil of Clarke's, catching under him at Princeton during his college course, when in 1911 he

22 THE ·CONCORDlENSlS was captain o£ the 'varsity. Not to be underestimated is Fred D'awson's own ex- perience both at Princeton and here, and his ability to clothe the cornbined experiences in book form. The book itself foHowed upon last sunl- mer' s study in New York of professional \in- side ball\ as played by the satel1ites of John J. McGraw and Frank L. Chance. The co- authors thus had a chance to examine every system of ball exactly as played in the major leagues. Hence the work is strictly up to date. The two chapters on '\Hints\ are especially of interest to the amateur and could well be read with the greatest enjoy- ment by anyone even slightly interested in the great national game. CANNON AND CULTURE. EUROPEAN SCHOLARSHIPS. The predicament of Miss Marguerite Darkow of this city, who has just won a European scholarship at Bryn Mawr, only to find it useless on her hands because of the war which precludes her entering the for- eign universities, is likely to be duplicated in the experience of many other prize-win- ning students at the various schools and colleges in the June Commencement days. Inevitably the situation suggests the thought that the \1nade in A1nerica\ brand of education will have to suffice for the bud- ding geniuses of the acaden1ic halls, and it tnay not be entirely beside the point to re- mark that the current aspect of Europe's \superior\ civilization scarcely seems to warrant the reputation it has borne tradi- tionally atnong intellectual folk on this side of the ocean.-Philadelphia Bulletin. HICK AND GUS SEE THE ELECTRI- CAL SHOW. Dear Buck :-Hick 'n n1e breezed over t' the electricity lavatory the other night, just t' see what kind of a jamboree they was stag- in' over there. We didn't spect t' see no hum dingin' burleque show nor an ,entree t' the Neptune's daughters, but say, some o' then1 stunts they had rigged up there was sure splend]ferous n' it took me 'n Hick consid- erable time t' figger some of '·em out. First thing we see when we come around the corner o' the red synagogue was a whole bunch o' red 'n w bite lights plastered all over the front o' the place. 'rhe guy at the door punched a hole in our tickets 'n Hick 'n me floated in. First thing we see was a little man set- tin' over in a chair a top a table. Hick 'n me knew right away he wasn't real but they must a been a guy inside of 'em, cause he started t' move his arms around 'n talk. What he had t' say 'peared t' come fron1 just abaft his left bicuspid somewhere, but I-Iick 'n me thought that was cause the guy inside couldn't breathe very good. Any- ways he started to bawl out some o' the col- lege boys sumpin' fierce 'n if Hick 'n me had been that tall doctor he called Rail or Kale we wouldn't stood for all he said. Me 'n Hick went into a little office sort a place where three guys was settin' back of a counter there. We couldn't find out what they was selling for a while 'n me 'n Hick thought the three guys looked like they was goin' to hang something over on us. Then they ast us did we want our re- sistance 'n e. m. f. taken. Me 'n Hick didn't know what it was for but it didn't cost nothin' so I grabbed a couple o' brass things they had layin' there 'n the tall pretty look- in' guy they called Teedy played around with some brass plugs 'n then the guy with the sink brush on his lips reached over 'n pushed another little brass thing. Then the litt1e guy over in the corner what was figgerin' in a book bent over 'n I could see 'em sort a s1nile. Next sunthin' funny started creep- in' up my arn1s then they started jumpin' around 'n I couldn't let go the darned little brass things at all. Then I yanked away t> i

r. t> i THE CONCORDIENSIS 23 from it 'n. my head was buzzin' around ·n Hick 'n me got out o'' there jus~ as quick as we could hot foot. Right after we went out we heard some guy yellin' in there like he was being killed 'n somebody said ''That's Cellog.'' Well I didn't blame 'in for yellin'. We went into another little place 'n saw an X -rays thing then 'n they was a colored woman in there with us 'n when she sa\v how you could look right through cioth 'n black things she said this ain't no place for a colored lady 'n she sure did beat it. They was a guy fryi n' eggs o:m. a pan over some ice. He said he done it by electricity but me 'n Hick knew he must a bet up the griddles in another t()Ofll 'n brought 'em in when nobody was lookin'. 'rhey was a nuther guy what knew all about telephones 'n he showed us how they \\\rorked. They was a lot a thi:m.gs Hick 'n me fergits. A little runt had a ffat upstairs 'n it was all cluttered up with things he never could a had no use for. Next room to him was a real cute little railroad run- . ' k ' I n1n on trac s n wanted to stay 'n watch 'em but Hick wantedt\ keep a date wit a couple o' skirts we met up with near the mine hoist. We got the girls 'n went bacl< to the red syn~go~ue down cellar. They was a couple big guys down there that must a played football. They talked around a lot about the big wires 'n sparks 'n things 'n didn't tell us nothin' 'n said if there wets anythin' vve wanted t' know to ask 'n then right away they told us to move ()fl an let the crowd in 'n they wasn't no crowd at all. It sure was some show though 'n me 'n Hick is goin' again when they have another only they can't hang nothin' over on us next tin1e. Yours respectably, GUS. Cornell is working <Jn her new stadium, 1vhich is to seat 9,000 -people. BELGIUM. Heartstruck she stands-Our Lady of all Sorrows- Circled with ruin, sunk in deep amaze; Facing the shadow of her dark tomorrows, Mo-urning the g1lory of her yesterdays. Yet is she queen, by every royal token, 1\here, where the storm of desolation swirled· ' Crowned only with the thorn-despoiled and broken- Her kingdom is the heart of all the world. She made her breast a shield, her sword a splendor, She rose like flame upon the darkened ways; So, through the anguish of her proud sur- render Breaks the clear vision of undying praise. Marion C. Smith. -The Nation. Ed. Note-The above was received fron1 The Nation with a request that we publish it. We do so with the greatest pleasure. CONCORDIENSIS BANQUET. Plans have been made for the annual Concordiensis dinner, to be held at the Ven- dome Hotel, April 23. Covers will be laid for twenty-five people, consisting of speak- ers, men on the editorial staff, and the busi- ness management. FOUND. One perfectly good table, one antiquated bird cage, several old tin cans and chipp~d cups and plates, also one Greek or Hebrew n1otto. Purity League 111ay have san1e by calling at fraternity house where above articles were left at midnight Monday. Two thousand four hundred out of 3,600 students at Can1bridge are away on service and even the athletic grounds are used by the troops in training.

I . I I ! ! . ! ' I I I ! I ! I . I I . i l 24 THE CONCORDIENSIS. KOL DRASTIC. The only way to get anything out of an ·axe is to drive a stick in its eye. \Why is 'Kulture' spelled with a \k\ ?\ \Because England controls the C's.\ \How do they call the people to dinner in a deaf and dumb asylum?\ \With a dumb-bell.\ How do you pronounce Prymcszl? Yes, that's just the way we do.-Targum. 1 She: \I can't go riding with you this af- ternoon ; I have no hat, no coat-nothing to wear.\ He: \Good; let's go swimn1ing then.\ The Sophomore French class was study- ing in front of the library and sighted Fos Brown on the eastern horizon. First Voice : \Hey Fos, do you know any·- thing about French?\ Second Voice: \If you do you don't be- long in this bunch.\ 1[ r I /! - -- NO SHAM PAIN - THIS! ... ' •i :' I j I i ~:j_

•i :' I j \ i ~:j_ THE CONCOitDIENSIS 25 CHEMICAL SOCIETY. Houghton Presents Paper on Petroleum. At the regular meeting of the Union CoUege Chemical Society held in the chem· istry lecture room Monday, March 2'9 ~ Erny Houghton read an instructive and interest- ing paper on \Petroleum artd Its Products.'' The treatise compared the chemical com- position o.£ oil found in different parts of the world and the commercial utility o£ o1l from these widely differing deposits was discussed. The paper also brought forth the origin of oil and the comparatively recent development of the oil industry. The by-products of crude oil, such as dyes, drugs, gasoline, kerosene, were also described. The customary lively discussion of the subject by the club in general followed the reading of the paper. G. F. HALL 'OG TO GO TO MECHANIC- VILLE. George F. Hall, director of the division ot reference and research of Schenectady schools, has been selected as superintendent of schools of Mechanicville. Mr. Hall first taught mathematics and science but later became Dr. Brubacher's statistician and in- vestigator in which line he was a very care- ful and accurate assistant. He had charge of the administrative work of the local city school system between the time Dr. A. R. Brubacher left and the coming of Superin- tendent Herbert Blair, and was supervisor of night schools of Schenectady. Mr. Hall's executive ability was not confined to secular schools alone, but he has for. some time filled the position of superintendent of the Sun- day School at Pilgrim Congregational Church on upper State Street. He is a mem- ber of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity. His new work will begin Septembeti the first. No freshman and only one sophomore of the University of Vermont received an \A\ grade last semester. THE VISION OF LIGHT. In the mystic calm of night's cool breath J sauntered from the show, From the glare o£ light and the music bright ; My :brain in a maze, my thoughts in a haze, And rny heart was all aglow. I drifted off into slumber deep, But my mind ran riot wild; With a :fiery flash and a blinding crash E1ectra appeared,-then my vision cleared.,- ! trembled like a child. For a million, billion, trillion volts Flashed from her eyes of fire, And the ghastly hue of the mercury's blue VVith a horrible thrill and a shuddering chill Showed the maiden's dreadful ire. The sputtering crack of the wireless, The answer from overhead, The hideous grin of the mannikin, A yellow stream from the X-ray's gleam, Filled my heart with a nameless dread. A thousand miles of a cable of steel Stretched down through a purple sea, I heard hell's fire on that telephone wire, The brimstone steam, a blood-red beam, For Satan was calling me. The iigh ts glared bright all around about, Then something snapped and broke. In the ·darkness black flashed a vivid crack, A luminous green, a glistening sheen, And then,:-well, I awoke. The new day was just breaking, Tne eastern hills aglow; My brow was wet with a clammy sweat, My heart and head were awhirl with dread, Bttt I'd seen the Electrical Show. Y aJe' s swimming team took first place in every event in a dual meet with Princeton's aquatic squad at New ·Haven.

I- I I I I I I I I I i I . I 26 PL~UCK AND LUCK -or- WHATEVER ~COMES UP MUST C·OME DOWN. The managing editor sank back in the voluptuous cush.rons of his chais longue in his private office on the second floor of Washburn Hall. The noise from the roo1ns of the general staff was deafening, for it was the going-to-press day of the Concor- diensis and everything was in confusion. But it was an orderly -confusion. Above the hubbub and clamor of the proof-read- ers above the clicking of the Associated Press dispatch [eased wire, telegraph, above all the going and coming, the bustle and hurry, towered the calm cool executive in- stinct of the managing editor. Out of all this vortex of endeavor and febrile energy would be produced a single well-balanced perfected Whole-this week's Concordien- sts. One hundred pages, half of it advertis- ing (the Harvester Trust had recently telegraphed for a full page at an exorbitant price, but had been refused owing to the high principles of the advertising staff, and a co1npli1nentary full page ad. of Egg and Egg Corn Syrup substituted-the Concor- diensis could afford to be liberal. One hundred pages, and half of it advertising! Thus flourished the Concordiensis. The en- tire second floor of Washburn Hall had been leased to the ·magazine by the college for $50,000 a year, which sum was being laid away to buy that new ·parlor furniture set for the janitor. In its new quarters gre2.t care and judgn1:ent had been used in laying out the space to the best advantage. One part in the front of the building where the afternoon sun dabbled the signed portrait C~f the Kaiser and the signed tnoving picture ,)£ Billy Sunday, had been laid away for the private sancturn of the managing editor. And there he sat this bright May aiter ... noon, sunk: back among the luxurious pil ... lows of his Turkish divan. But all was not as golden as the after\'\ noon sun that dabbled the mobile features of Billy Sunday (signed) on the wall. No ; our editor was worried. He had just :finished his bitter editorial, flaunting the banner of logic and honor in the facr~s of the Conventional Committee at Albany (which Elihu Root and other strong men then assembled at the capitol and waiting in trembling fear for the publication of the Concordiensis would tear their hair over, nay even weep over) and had sent it safely to press. Nevertheless his strong features were convulsed, his trenchant hands trenched, the bursting cords of his neck were bursting. Nervously he chewed the shift key of his trusty typewriter. \Vhat was causing all this exacerbation in this usually calm man? Ah, what was it, but his FEATURE STORY, his HEAD .. IJNE ARTICLE, his \greatest human in .. terest story in years f' as he sobbingly can .. ed it, his story with the greatest punch i-n the whole punching-bag,-this story gone astray, unwritten, and only a half hour be .. fore press time. He MUST have it! or his journalistic reputation would be rooined! He must have PREXY'S DATES withil1 half an hour, or commit suicide. But how to get Prexy's Dates, that was ~he question. The story of the baseball vic- tory over Yale had been put in its accus- tonJed place in the 96th page between the ad of the Oak Barber shop and 3-in-1 Oil. The Austrian defeat at Chemisette was put with other war news in the Batter Colutnne 1\\he murder of Oliver Osborne was in with the other jokes. But the first page waited for PREXY'S DATES-· and the first page -vvas empty. ' '[ \ J li

' '[ \ J li > THE CONCORDIENSIS 27 Old Jefferson J eldamps, the tactiturn but competent grey haired star reporter had last been seen on his way to Proctors. Y ou.ng Ba]d Jack Chapn1an,. the fiery and efficient young police-news man was outside playing soccer with Field-Marshal Tilley. The rest of the officious office staff was officially at work in the office playing seven- up and couldn't be disturbed. What should he do? His eyes wandered vacantly around the sumptuous room which was vacant. But hark ! a footstep at the door. The door was swung open and a sturdy young American- Irish lad, Wilerson Clough, the office boy, stood at the door. His keen young blue eyes flashed and his brilliant red hair fluttered on his head. He vvas a picture of sturdy young vibrant American manhood, yet only a boy. Inspiration rushed to the tnanagtng- editor's head! Here was his opportunity. The clock stood at between four o'clock. In three-quarters of an hour the Concor- diensis must go to press. Would the youth standing there rise to the occasion, would he seize the opportunity, would he? He would ask him. In a few short, sharp, gruff sentences the managing editor explained the situation, rolling his panetella between his teeth as he talked. As soon as the first words rushed from the editor's lips our Hero (for it is he) braced himself and assumed the official A. A. U. starting position for the high hurdles. The editor seized hitn by the arm. \Can you do it?\ he hissed into the lad's ear. For an instant the boy's face was stern, adan1an- tine, sto·ne. He gazed long into the editor's eyes and then convulsively he seized his hand and ejaculated, \Yes by gum, I'll get that story for you or die in the attempt. 'rrust me till death!\ With these stirring words he burst from the roon1. The editor sank back exhausted upon his Chippendale sofa. As he sank, he ejaculated, ''By George, if that boy gets that story, I'll make him president!\ With these wild words he took: another sniff and subsided into dreamy slumber. Now we must step outside and follow our young hero on his mad dash for fame. Stopping to borrow a cigarette from Char- ley Waldron, he walked round the campus till he met Fritz, the cop, from whom he borrowed a match. Safely :finished with this adventure, our hero pro<:eeded. Caution as well as courage must aid him. Carefully choosing a door in South. Collonade he open- ed it noiselessly. Before him was a dark passage, that led by a flight 'of narrow stairs dimly discernable, to some upper room. What might await our hero at the top of those stairs? Who knows? Firmly grasp- ing his cigarette in his 1 eft hand, his hat ln his right hand, and his revolver in his left hand, he ascended the stairs. Gentle reader, let us draw the curtain of timorousness over what occured above. One minute and thirty-six seconds, after our hero ascended the stairs he appeared again at the top of them, said, \Thank you, Miss Beatty,\ and descended the stairs. In his hand was firmly clutched a sheet of paper! It was PREXY'S DATES! With a cry he rushed into the managing editor's room, flung down the paper and cried, \Here it is, sir. Here is your story! I got it ! Crown me!\ Dro\vsily the editor turned on his side. With a ye1;wn he n1urmured, \Thanks ever so much. Would you 1nind chasing down to the Art Press with it-tell 'em to use it anywhere-tell 'em to put it at the end of Gilbert's story, will you? Thanks.\ And here it is. PREXY'S DATES. Last Monday, President Rich1nond at- tended an alumni dinner in \Vashington, and on Tuesday evening he \\!Vas a guest at

l' I i I: l' I, I, I I: I~ I' I. t I· I: I I I I I . I! l l I I ! ! i I I I l : I : ! i ' I . I I ! I I ! I i I . 1 ' I I I : I I I . 28 THE CONC'ORDIENSIS an alumni dinner in Pittsburg. He was present at an alumni reception in Buffalo on Wednesday evening. From there he has gone to Detvoit on a business trip. He will return in time to be present at the 'Con- cordiensis banquet on April 23. On the morni~g of April 19, Dr. Richmond will ad- dress the Ministerial Association here in Schenectady. DE MANHOOD IN YOU. On an island ob stars wiv a seashore ob gold, Dar's an angel what heralds de morn, An' he rolls back de clouds an' he lets in de sun, An' he blows on his new silber horn. An' his chune it am Union foreber~ She stans fo' de good an' de true, She stan's fo' de glory of God in Heb'n; She stan's fo' de manhood in you. Den a song I will sing oh her fair classic walls, Ob her famed seat ob stone ole an' gray, An' a song I will sing ob her grove an' her brook Whar de fern an' de meadow grass pia y. It am Union, dear Union, foreber. She stan's fo' de good an' de true, She stan's fo' de glory ob God in Heb'n, She stan's fo' de manhood in you. An' de angel he blows on his new silber horn, An' an orchid droops down fro1n a star, While a lily springs up by de brook in de grove, An' dey kiss in de blue skies afar. It am Union, ·dear Union, foreber, De bond ob de good an' de true. De orchid it stan's fo' de glory ob God, De lily, de manhood in you. .Li\n' a comet, de angel, he takes £o' his brush, An' his colors he dips from de bow : But de pictur he paints it am YOURS fo' to say, An' de canbas mus' come from below. 0 ye sons of 'Ole Union! Y e faithful! What scene shall de angel portray? A temple to God an' your brudder man That shall las' foreber an' aye? From de island ob stars go an' :gader de gold; 'Tis de call ob yo' Garnet an' White, Dat de angel may paint de dear Union to be In de colors distilled from cle light. It am Union, your Union foreber. She stan's fo' de good an' de true, She stan's fo' de glory of God in Heh'n, She stan's fo' de manhood in you. She stan's fo' de onrushing ages, She stan's fo' de wonder to be; An' her fame will be sounded in Heb'nJ Her name will be sung by de sea. -MOSES VINEY. \THY WILL, NOT OURS.\ With never-ceasing, monotonous rumble the long train of Pullmans slipped ever on through the plains of Nevada beneath the leaden autumn sky. The day was waning- a cheerless day portending the cold, pene- trating rains and raw winds of fall. I had tired of reading and had gazed drearily through the car windows at miles and miles of \dry-farming\ country. Soon we were entering irrigated country and with interest quickened by the change of scene I noticed a slight movement by the track. I looked more closely and ere we passed from sight saw two ragged little children of eight and nine respectively perched side by side in the meshes of the woven wire fence waving grimy hands at the speeding train. I had no time to return the little ones' salute and want of the opportunity struck me as a staggering 'i \ ;~ .:j .l i •f ~ i i l __ ] f 'I 1 ( I 1 'J .. ~ f ··I .. :t . I I t 1 I .] ( J; ' I '.1 1: .; v n s t] e: 'r b: aJ ft A th tiJ ca w~

\ . • ;' \ ;~ . ·'i l THE CONCORDIENSJS:. loss for in my fleeting glance I had caught in the grimy, tear-stained childish faces a look of utmost sadness------a look that told of one more disappointment added to countless others in the cheerless Hf,e of the little brother and sister. audibly and straightening with an effort said: \I'm not cryin' fur mother-she's d 1 ' . . ' happy now, ear sou ,, an wa1 tin to see me· agin-but it always takes me this way when I think of thim .two 1i ttle kids ridin' off with their great-uncle to that wretched hut you may have noticed back yonder (pointing to- ward the rear of the train). He is a drunken bum an' sub-gate keeper at the irrigation works. He gits \em enough to eat I guess and clothes 'em as their looks show.\ The train had .slowed down during his last speech and now stopped and he left the train and a new man took his place for the rest of the run. Depressed in spirit I thought for hours of all he had told me and ultimate- ly found some slight consolation in the tnental resolve to stop off on my return in the spring and see the little orphans. * * * * Lightly I tapped the shoulder of the burly conductor in the seat before me and he turn- ed and in the fading light a glistening of his eyes struck a chord of fellowship in emotion in my heart. He spoke before I could frame a sentence and the big Irish- man's voice shook. \Ivery day for three years save the wurst days uv winter thin1 two poor little kids have waved from the fince at this train.\ He broke off, swal- lowed, and resumed: \An' the sadness iver in their swa te dirty faces would melt a heart of stone, shure it would.\. Another pause. Then my con1panion took up his explana- tion. \They're lookin' fur their father, they are, who was kilt in a Colorado mine two years ago, so the station agent towld me back at Clayville. They've niver been towld of the casualty, poor things. I know their loving hearts would break.\ I was eager for the rest of the story but forbore to ques-· tion and after quite an interval the conduc- tor spoke in a husky voice and said: \Ex- pecting their ol' man is their only hope in life, I guess-mother died when the girl was four and the lad three. They lived in my home town then. Barkerville, it was. She died of consumption. I raymimber well that funeral scene. As the coffin was low .. ered from sight the little hoy kept sobbin·' 'mamma' and the girl followed it with her big wistful blue eyes with a look of sadness and love in thim that it would be unhowly fur me rough tongue to attempt to describe. An' that look has niver left thim no more than it has left me membry. Me mother tinded thim two months jist like she used to care fur me when I was a kid and thin-she went Home.'' Here the big man sobbed It was a raw 'vindy day-one of the last in March when I made my return trip. My old conductor friend got on at the station where I had last seen him, recognized me, started to seat himself beside me, but with. pained face indicative of strong emotion passed hurriedly into the next car. My first tnought was of some added suffering of our little orphan friends. I half rose to follow him but as we were but a few miles from the spot where first I saw them, 1 resolved to wait and watch for then1. Soon the con- ductor passed rapidly through the car with eyes upoi1 the floor, pausing only to say: \Th' little boy is with his mother now. Poor little sister!\ I looked from the win- dow and there with pretty brown curls toss .. ing in the raw wind stood the little girl on the meshes of the fence. She was crying and waving her hand with an air of utter. hopelessness. Beside her was the saggiug n1esh which never more should hold little brother's feet. Despite my resolve of the autumn, I co.uld, not stop off for I was hurrying home in an-·

! : I I I I I '' '' I' . I , I I; 30 THE CONCORDIENSIS. swer to an urgent summons. A mile or so beyond the lonely watcher on the fence, the train pulled up at a tiny station and I saw our -·conductor speaking earnestly on the platform with one of his brakemen whom h_e pro-moted to conductor by an exchange of caps and then we started on and the big Irishman strode off back across the fields. Some months later I rode again over that road on the same train and met my old friend. . \It was just as I guessed,\ he began. \I overtook the little girl at her old uncle's door an' she told me as how he'd locked her out all day in that wind! Drunk as usual. He came to the door all quick enough whin I knocked an' with blood in his eye. He was soon in a better mood of mind, however, even if his physical man wasn't beautified by the operation.\ (I inferred that if the two men shook hands, they didn't do it in the 'conventional way.) \I soon made hitn see that the little girl had an alarming cold and was very sick. we made her comfort- able and got a doctor but by morning she had gone with radiant face to her family re- union in the Home of the Father of all, and I'll bet mother's cryin' over th' little dear yet!\ I. was unable to withhold the question: ''.What good can come of such innocent per- sons suffering so.\ \You're not running this world,\ he an- swered abruptly. \An' besides,\ he added, \it made a good sober man uv him an' sint him home to care for his old father and rnother. At least I guess it did, for all that r did to him would rather have made less rnan of him savin' timporary enlargeme11t at points uv contact.\ J. B. T. SISTER SUZIE'S SPRING SONG. Spring showers start seeds sprouting, Startling silky socks soon show, Slowly strolling sunny Steve Sees salubrious sauce Sally Snuggle soon S'nough. THOUGHTS ON THE WAR. Civilization! Culture 1 Oh, Religion! Have you any power, any influence Upon the course of man; Or are you but the product Of idle minds, of dreamers, Who in time when no besetting crisis Appears upon the horizon of tranquility, Bethink themselves of greater virtue Than would situation prove them? And are you not, when material forces gather In tempest on the shores of reality Blown far abroad and deeply sunk In the uncertain seas of idealism? Ah, yes; you are driven far from reality But you sink not in the seas of idealism, Instead, you gather great cargos, and In tilne return and heap on suffering man Blessings which would not have been gained Had no winds blown, and you in circling course Floated upon the stagnant pond. LEWIS '1 '1. Practically all of the able-bodied athletes at Oxford and Cambridge have gone to the front and consequently no interest is being shown in sports at those places.-Ex. About thirty wo1nen have reported for crew work at Leland Stanford University this spring. How n1any for football, vve ask? Washington State University was recent- ly added to the universities charging fees, when the State Legislature passed a bill pro- viding for a $10 tuition. The University of Idaho and the College of Havvaii are the only remaining free institutions in the United States. I 'I i . 1 ·'\ .. ; ''

e e I 'I i . 1 ·'\ .. ; 'I THE CONCORDIENSIS. 31 COLLEGE BAND NAMES OFFICERS .. The mem~bers of the Union Colege band met in Silliman Hall last night and elected officers for the ensuing year. W. Carroll Gunning, '16, was re-elected leader; Howard B. Santee, '16, assistant leader; Georeg G. Mercer, president; W. A. Robinson, '16, secretary; L. S. Walrath, '17, treasurer, and \V. 0 .. Clough, '17; as librarian. Plans were discussed at the meeting for a dinner which will be held later in the year, and the mat- ter of band awards was also brought up. It was decided to award sweaters for ser- vice in the organization, and the question of insignia for these will be submitted to the student body for vote in college meeting soon. a committee was appointed to take up the matter of a schedule and rules. For several y-.ears the different fraternities have organ- ized teams within short notice and played other s',crowds'' on the old diamond. This year it is proposed to organize the fraterni- ties definitely into a league and to :Play under set rules. It is believed that a deal of enjoyment can be obtained from such a scheme and that a definite organization be- tween the different fraternities will stimu- late a friendly rivalry on the diamond. The time of the games, whether they will be seven inning games at dawn or twilight, and the place, as well as other rules and de- tails~ have yet to be worked out by the com- mittee, which is 1nade up of Houghton, '15 ; Starbuck, '15, and Bokaski, '16. GATEWAY BILL GOES TO RULES. Assemblyman W. S. McNab has sent in his request to the rules committee for the report of his bill making an appropriation for the beginning of the work of construct- ing the bridge over the Mohawk between Schenectady and Scotia, to serve as the gateway to the west. The bill carries an appropriation of $150,000, but the Schenec- tady assemblyman expects it to be reduced by amendment of the committee before it is reported. He confidently expects that it will be reported and passed before the ses- sion of the assembly is ended by final ad- journment. The ways and means commit- tee went out of busines to-day and now the rules committee is the only source of bills for the house calendar. FRATERNITIES TO HAVE BALL LEAGUE AT UNION COLLEGE. Committee Named to Draw Up Rules and Arrange for Coming Season. At a meeting of the Union College Inter- fraternity conference in Washburn hall last night it was voted to establish an inter- fraternity baseball league on \the hill,\ and UNION COLLEGE PLANNlNG FOR COMMENCEMENT EVENT. Charles N. Waldron, general secretary of the Union College Graduate Council, has called a meeting of the different class song comn1ittee chairmen for tonight in Wash-- burn Hall. The object of the meeting will be to complete plans for the annual class song ,contest on alumni night of con1mence- ment week for the Fitzhugh Lu-dlovv cup. The contest will be governed much the sanJ.e as last year, each class being required to sing one stanza of alma mater which was written by Ludlow, '56, and in addition, an original song written for the occasion. In June, 1914, the initial contest proved a great success and a decided addition to the pro- gram of alumni night. The cup which was awarded by Miss Ludlow, sister of the author of Union's abna mater, was won last year by the class of 1917. For son1e time class con1mittees have been at work on the proposition of original songs for the con- test in June and ton1orrow's tneeting will complete certain prelin1inary details, as yet unsettled.

I I I i II l i I l II ! I 32 THE CONCORDIENSIS. PROGRAM New York State Presidents' Conference, Union College, Schenectady, New York, April 16-18, 1915. Banquet Friday evening, 6 :30 o'clock, Silliman Hall. ~c. D. Connell, Student Sec- retary New York State Committee, pre- siding. Addresses: Address of welcon1e, Dr. Rob- ert T. Hill of the Union College faculty. '\Personal Life of the President of the Association,\ Mr. C. W. Whitehair, gen- eral secretary Y. M. C. A. \Co-operation of City and Student Work,\ Robert S. Ross, general secretary Schenec- tady City Association. \'\rhe Rising Tide of Evangelism,\ Mr. Paul Micou, eastern field secretary of the Student Department International Com- mittee. Saturday Morning-Silliman Hall. 9:30 A. M. \The N orth:field Conference,\ Mr. Chas. D. Hurrey, executive secretary Interna- tional Committee. \Eaglesmere Conference,'' Mr. Paul Mi- cou. \Religious Education,\ Mr. Harrison S. Elliott, Bible Study Secretary International Committee. Saturday Afternoon---Silliman Hall. 1:15 P. M. \Principles in Selecting and Handling a Cabinet,\ Mr. Charles D. Hurrey. \Campus and Community Service,\ in charge of Elmer Galloway, Industrial Ser- vice Secretary [ntercoHegiate Branch; New York City, and C. K. Brown, General Sec- retary ·Columbia .University. Saturday Night-Silliman HalL 7:30 P. M. ''Association Press.\ \North American Student,\ (Mr. Paul Micou.) \Recent Developments,\ Mr. Charles D. Hurrey. Sunday Morning-Silliman Hall. 9:30 A. M .. HThe Missionary Policy of the Associa- tion,\ Mr. J. Lovell Murray, Educational Secretary of the Student Volunteer Mo.ve- ment. 11 :00 A. M.-College Chapel. Address, ''Membership,'' Dr. Harry Lathrop Reed of Auburn Theological Sem- . tnary. Sunday Afternoon-Silliman Hall. 2 :4:'5 P. M. \Life Work Guidance,\ Mr. Paul Micou~ Closing Devotional Session, Prof. A. E. Alton, Colgat-e University. Leland S. Van Wert read a paper on the \'Natural Silicate Rocks\ before the Chem- ical Club on Monday, April 12. In the ~ourse of the paper, it was shown how these rocks were formed from different silicic .acids. Among the many specimens shown and considered were garnets, soapstones and others equally familiar. The evolution of the tire to the sausage. Showimg that tJte auto is taking the place of the horse.

;, t 1 ' I , . . , ' t; . ~ ' '. J I ~ ; I, If 'J'OU ·want anything !ro1n QUINN'S Scke.tuctady~s Greatest Drug Store Just Telepho·ne 1285 Anytime Hasty Messengers Deliver ' all Pu.rchases Steefel Bro& ALBANY, N. Y. Over Plaid Effect Brown-Gray-Green Yo11 cait't appreciate the excellence of tailoring in our new over plaid auits unless you make a close and careful examination. We can't explain how difficult it is. to match the plaids in the back of a tight waisted coat-but a glance will tell the story. Have that glance Spri.ng Display ,of W aU Paper is now ' l'eady at the Sun 5 & 10c Wall Paper Store Every-thing in Wall Paper Nothing Over 1 Oc Over Woolworth's. 'Phone 4454-J . 411 STATE STREET. Schenectady 81 E. 'Main St., Amsterdam 129·13! Glen St., Glen=a Falls WATERS, CUstom Tailor 15fi BARRETT STIEEl Imported an~d D·omestic Woolens IS% Reduction to Students F·or ·s~rnples and prices, ree ROBERT N. LANDRETH Colle~e Hill, Phone 1915-J Smart Snug Fit ,Oxfords ..~ 1\fadtt en t'lte ne'W' Eh!f1,lsh style last, with. smug :tlt heel, and :per- fect ftttlng. Nobby s-tyles, all sizes and widths. N'o extra charge for our st;>eclai. fitting service. $4 to $8 PATTON & HALL .N$ State Street, SeheneetaiiT• t: I ''

i f I l I d I I I I I I I II I I I i . i I . I I ' i t j I I! l! ll i I I; II · I! I I ' I More College News IN THE Read It Every Day GAZETTE c~~oTHe:s SHoP FoR MEN 340 WASHINGTON STREET BosTON .Suits $25 and Up Flannels $5 and Up HENRY WANDLESS Old Gym. Dorm. The Gem City Novelty Co. 6237 Bittner St., Dayton, Ohio. Nett Terrace Home Bakery C. LOHEN, Prop. Fresh Pies, Buns, Rolls, Cake, Bread Daily. 'Phone 4258- J. N. K. McNEILL NEWS ROOM Cigars and Tobacco, Ice Cream, Candies and Groceries. College Idols. 108 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N.Y. There is no Music Like I . Giocia' s Orchestra • .302 Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Y. Telephone. RaJ Ra! Ra! Juniors This is for you. One portrait, (the best you have ever had taken) and a print for your Class Book for One Dollar. See W. A. Hughes, Pyramid C Jub, College Representative The Studio of Mabelle Primmer 241 STATE STREET Over Patton & Hall Schenectady's Leading Flower Shop Julius i.Eger ORCHIDS, ROSES AND VIOLETS 735 State Street ED, THE THE BARBER SHOP FOR Cor. State and Centre Sts., Over Douglass New Shoe Store BARBER UNION MEN Absolutely Sanitary. First Class Service. Ask the Man Who's been Here. The New Hygienic Lunch and Restaurant Most Sanitary Lunch Room in Schenectady Specialty-Reasonable Prices, Comfortable

Bellinger Paint Co. PAI·NTS, OILS Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishea 212 So. Centre St. ~~~ .J ~ ts Walk-Over .sl10es will ta.lce ~~~- ~ you anywhere and back. LET YOUR NEXT PAIR BE Walk-Overs. '· 407 State Stree.t, Schenectady ~ A. R. Zita's Orchestra furnished music at Union College 1905 , 'o6, '07, 'o8, '09, '10, ·11, '12 '13 & '14 Best Dance M·usi;c in the World g~~·tt~g~~~..::~e~ 48 ~!~Betterfor Concert Office and Res., 167 Hamilton St., A·Ibany TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL JAMES F. BURNS Electrical Supplies. Study Lamps, Portables, Etc. 442 State- Street Schenectady, N. Y. \UNION NATIONAL BANK'' 334 State Street Solicits Accounts of Students R. WIRTH Periodicals, Confectionery, Cigars, Cigar- ettes. All latest Desserts served at his fountain. Catering to College and High School func- tions a specialty. Music furnished if desired. 133 NOTT TERRACE Bell 'Phone 1356-M. Suits Made to Order from $18 to $35. A. GARUCKY Custom Tailor for Ladies' and Gentlemen Sanitary Cleaning, Pressing, Altering and Re- pairing of Ladies' and Gents' Garments. 870 Eastern Ave., Bet. Wendell & Morris Aves. Cigars Ice Cream Soda · St. Regis Pharmacy, 600 Union St. , CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles HOME MADE CANDIES N.H. Weaver CIGARS CIGARETTES 130 NOTT TERRACE N.M.READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER Room 74 Parker Building. Special Rates to Students Telephone 620-W LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST 426 State Street Eyes Teated and Glfuse1 Fitte<i THE ROLLINSON STUDIO Quality Photography \Watch the Snow Case'' RINDFLEISCH'S Artistic Parisian Dye Works 116 Jay Street.

I. I ' i ' ' i I ! : ' i r,~ ----- \Bull\ Durham, the Smoke of Hospitality At fashionable house-parties, gay week-end gath- erings, wherever smart American men assemble for recreation,. mellow \Bull n Durham tobacco adds to their enjoyment. 'It is correct, up-to-date, notably stylish to ''roll y9ur own\ cigarettes with ''Bull\ Durham-stamps you as a smoker of experience- and that delicate, distinctive '''Bull\ Durham fragrance is always yery agreeable to the ladies of the party. f4. GENUINE , 'BuLl DURHAM . SMOKING TOBACCO ••Bull,. Durham is unique among the world's high-class smoking tobaccos- and has been for generations. Millions of smokers find in the fresh cigarettes they fashion to their own liking from this deliciously mild, fragrant tobacco, supreme enjoyment and satisfac- tion obtainable in no other way. Roll a cigarette with \Bull\ Durham today. Learn that orig- . 1 . . h tna, exqu1s1te aroma--- t · e re- freshing smoothness and mellow- ness- the irresistible appeal of this world-famous tobacco. ·FREE An l!lustrated Booklet. showmg correct . · way to \RollY our ~--~~ -'fd.Bt; Own'' Cigarettes, and a Package of cigarette papers. will both be mailed, free. to any address · in U.S. on request. Address ••Bull\ Durham, Durham, N. C. Room 1400. THE AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. Ask lor FREE packa.eof upaper•,. w it h each lie •ac:lt. ~ ~ • ' ; I I ' _, •' ' 'l,. • • ' ' '

.... . ... ~; ,;,. ·OFCO:U~SE there is always a caU for Dollars. It's true however that some of these calls are most necessary. Save for tile necessary ones In the The Slchenectady Savings Bank COR. STATE AND CLINTON The Edison Baseball American Plan All Outside Rooms by Clarke and Frederick T. Dawson $1.00 Net Rates $2.50 to $4.00 Special Meal Ticket, 8 meals for $5 The Gleason Book Co. 104 Jay Street Gleason Building Edwin Clute, Prop. Sche11ectady, N. Y. \On your way to the post office\ The PURE FOOD Store = THE MOHICAN MARKET -= . Jl\\\\' The Big Store Around the Corner • 6 161 JAY ST~EET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. THE OUTLET The PURE FOOD Store 140 JAY STREET, Opposite Van Curler Brokers and Jobbers of fine Custom Made Garments $10.95 for any Overcoat or Balmacaan in the store Full Dress Suits For Rent Wally Girling representing WILLIAM KIRKPATRICK Exclusive Foot Wear -· agent for- The J & M Shoe Sweaters and Banners R. E. REEVES handles our line in Union 132-134 Fulton Street, New York Arthur Mfg Co. Lowville, N.Y.

The ·schenectady Clothing Co. Clothing for College Men Stein~Bioch and Hickey-Freeman Suits and Overcoats cut to your measure $20 upward Full · Dress Acceessories Arrow Col:lars Oakes' Swea·ters The newest in hats .at all times The Schenectady :Clothing Co. 313·315 State Street Telephone ·91-W The OAK Barber Shop 426 STATE STREET. M. F. ALBE, Prop. CHARLES DERWIG FINE CUSTOM TAILORING CLEANING AND PRESSING. 18 Barrett Street 'Phone 354- W. Between Union and Liberty Streets. ENDWELL Shoes Our Goodyear Welt Shoes fit perfectly and are very stylish in appearance; besides they wear like iron. What more could you ask? Endicott, Johnson & Co. 206 So. Centre Street Near State l JUST WRIGHT SHOES For Particular Men- $4.50 and up Real Value and Style are assured by the Name Geissler & Ryan 173 Jay Street P. J. KENNEY CUSTOM TAILOR Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing College Clothing a Specialty Cor. Jay & Liberty St. Schenectady, N. Y. Last year more 1\IURADS were smoked than any other 15eTurkish cigarette in the world. 15c ~ Ma.kws oft'lu Hiok· est Grade Turkish ud Egyptian Cigaret tea in t'M WOTld.

' Stoll,s Hofhrauhaus 16:2-64-66 Jay Slr:eet, 'Schenectady, N. Y~ ·· Will Serve Reid German Meals at All Hours at Moderate Prices. MUSICAL ENTE'RTAINMENT EVENINGS. Nic.e1y Furnished Roo.ms by Day or Wee·k. Telephone 193'8. MAX NOW A, Prop. R A unique Gerrpan place, Catering to private parties in and out of the house. Mandeville, '17' Representative on the H.i lL Schenectady Taxicab Servi·ce :co. Phone 4489. H. l Schwartz Tailoring Co. · IT RAINs Sn. ap. ·.pies. t M.ade-to-Meas.ur .. e Cloth.'ing. a. t: w .. ···. •H·· •·.E····N·· .• TN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE less than \Ready-Made'' Prices·. Dress Suits from $25 up. 9 Proctor's Arcade, Wedgeway Buildin,g. The Liberty Bell Adjustable Lamp A·LAMP FOR EVERY P·URPOSE. Representative on the :flill, Girling, '17. Hallbauer-Hardman Mf.g. Co. 957 State Street. Telephone 1909-W Electric City Barber Shop EDWIN POSSON, Prop. Special Attention Given to Face and Scalp. 436 State Street, Schene.ctady, N. Y. Telephone Connections A. STOODLEY People's Baker 423 Union St. Schenectady, N. Y. C. A. Whelan & Co. :Cigars and Tobacco 301 and 443 State St. .Schenectady Call 4489 Kllt..DE:R & HlCKS The Ceipitol District's Greatest Trunk and Leather Goods Store Huy baggage with the 5 year guarantee . ~~·~ 177 Jay Street -·~..... 110 No. Pearl St. Schenectady, N.Y. fi., · , ~ Albany, N. Y. · \-LIAI!Iv · . REPAIRING SPALDING'S for nearly forty years-. have been the ones to think out, and put on the market, things really new in sport. Are you posted on just what's new this year? A. G. Spalding & Bros. szl~~h 1 ~v~~N~~s¥~:~ Send for CatAiol!ue Schenectady;s Leading Restaurant GLENN'S 422 State Street MY STOCK OF Fall Hats and Haberdashery is now complete.. An inspection is solicited. JOSEPH NUSBAUM, 336 State Street, Gazette Building 20th Century Lunch CHOCOLATE PIE WITH WHIPPED C'REA·M, OUR SPECIALTY .154 Jay Street, .. . ''On your WdY to the Post Office\ i.

The Schenectady Clothing Co .. Clothin.g for College Men Stein-Bloch and Hickey-Freemall; JUST WRIGHT SHOES Suits and Overcoats cut to your Fo~r Particular Men--- $4.50 and up ': measure $20 upward Fun. Dress Acceessories Real Value and Style are A.rrow Collars Oakes' Sweaters assured by the Name The newest in hats at all times The Sc~anectady Clothing Co. Geissler & Ryan 313-315 State Street Telephone 91-W The OAK Barber Shop 426 STATE STREET. M. F. ALBE, Prop. CHARLES DERWIG FI~E CUSTOM TAILORING CLEANING AND PRESSING. 18 Barrett Street 'Phone 354- W. Between Union and Liberty Streets,. ENDWELL Shoes Our Goodyear Welt Shoes fit perfectly ~nd are very stylish in appearance; begides they wear like iron. What more ·could you ask? Endicott, Johnson & CD. !06 So. Centre Street Near State 173 Jay Street P. J. KENNEY CU,STOM TAiiLOR Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing College Clothing a Specialty Cor. Jar & Liberty St Schenectady, N. Y. Last year more MURADS were smoked th~~;ll any other 15~'Ibrkish cigarette :ill the world. 15c ~ MakeTs ofthe lfieh• est Grade Turkish. - - and Egy'J)t'l.(£'n CigaTet tes 1il.tht WOTld. \ J . I l ..

~: ' I \ J . I l .. Stoll's Ho!hrauhaus 162-64-66 Jay Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Will Serve Real German Meals at All Hours at Moderate Prices. MUSICAL ENTERT~~INMENT EVENINGS. Nicely Furnished Rooms by Day or Week. Telephone 1938. MAX NOW A, Prop. A unique German place, Catering to private parties in and out of the house. Mandeville, '17 Representative on the Hill. H. J. Schwartz Tailoring Co. Snappiest Made-to-Measure Clothing at less than \Ready-Made\ Prices. Dress Suits from $25 up. 9 Proctor's Arcade, Wedgeway Buildingo The Liberty Bell Adjustable Lamp A LAMP FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Representative on the Hill, Girling, '17. Hallbauer-Hardman Mfg. Co. 957 State Street. Telephone 1909-W Electric City Barber Shop EDWIN POSSON, Prop. Special Attention Given to Face and Scalp. 436 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone Connections A. STOODLEY People's Baker 423 Union St. Schenectady, N. Y. ----···-·..-.,..-----~=-==------------ C. A. Whelan & Co. Cigars and Tobacco 301 and 443 State St. Schenectady Schenectady Iaxicab Service Co. Phone 4489. W. ·H EN· IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS The Capitol D:i~trict's Greatest Trunk and Leather Goods Store Buy ba;gg:age with the 5 year guarantee ;p..\...WAY,s 177 Jay Street ..,..,~\\'\ 110 No. Pearl St. Schenectady,N_ Y. ~VJ! Albany, N.Y. REPAIRING SPALDING·s for nearly forty :years-have been the ones to think out, and put on the market, things really new in sport. Are you poste~ on just what's new this year? A. G. Spalding & :Bros. s2o 1 ~~h 1 ~v~~N~~s¥~~~ Send for Catalo~ue Schenectady's Leading Restaurant GLENN'S 422 State Street MY STOCK OF Fall Hats and Haberdashery is now complete.. An inspection is solicited. JOSEPH NUSBAUM, 336 State Street, Gazette Building 20th Century Lunch CHO,COLATE PIE WITH WHIPPED CREAM, ,QUR SPECIALTY 154 Jay Street, ''On your WdY to the Post Office\

SUITS FOR COLLEGE MEN Made by Hart, Schaffner & Marx Double Breasted Models, Single Breasted Straight Front Styles, and the newest ideas in soft roll, two and three button coats are all here-all made for us by those wonderful Hart, Schaffner & Marx tailors. College men like these clothes better than any other clothes made and the men of Union are showing us that they do. · We are glad to show them to you any day that you can give us time. 240-244 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY Schenectady ~ Art Press ! I ~ ~ ' . . , ' l ' I•

. • ... .. ; ' . . . ' :- . ·l, . . ' ~ ' . ' , '.,I '\ •' ., I r' .,.,' '•··' ·. ,: ·.·_·: ' . . ,, '. ·-· .. . ·.· .. ·:· ' ',,: __ ... . ·.···-· :.•· ... ,. . . - .•• ·:; . . ·-. ·- . . . '•i ·~ SUITS FOR COLLEGE MEN -. . . Made by. Hart,. Sch~ffner & Marx Double Breasted Models, Single. Bre.asted Straight Fro:nt Styles~ and the new:est ~ideas in soft roll, two an·d ·three button coats are all here-all rnade for us b.y those wonderful Hart, Schaffner & Marx tailors. ·College men like these clothes better than any oth.er clothes made and the men of Union are. showing us that the·y do. · We are glad· to show them to ~·ou any day that you can give us time. · \ .: ... ,, ,· ;. ·,.· •!'' :, :,, ,, . :· ·; 240-244 ST A TB STREET SCHENECT-ADY ~ . - . . Schenectady ~ Art Press v

! I ~ ~ ' . . , ' ~ ' . I• ' . f. i • .1 ' :\1 >1 VOL. 38 Union defeats Stevens and Rutgers APRIL 22nd, 1915 NO. 22

•' .: ' . . ' ' /'· ... :~<-; ' ' '·, ... •!'' :,, ,, VOL. 38 Union defeats Stevens and Rutgers APRIL 22nd, 1915 lPrJJ IBLJ[5 NO. 22

UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL.D .. Chancellor UNiON COLLEGE The coU ege offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. C~arr~es leading to tlte degree of A. B. CLASSICA.r, CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission t() this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSIC&!. CouRs~ B.-Students may, at the dose of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates for the d~gree of A. B. They will then be required to study G:reek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. s. C-4»WJ.rse leading to the degree oJ Ph. B., LATIN·SCIENTn'IC CouRs~-This course offers Latin with.out Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. ()C)urse leading to tile degree ot B. s. ScntN'l'IF'IC CouRsE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. <l«lnrse leading to the degree of B. E. GENERAL, ENGINEERING CouRs~-This course offers the found.ation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRsE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sctnitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE- This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. IS. Oourses leading to graduate degrees. CouRSE LEADING TO DEGREE o:F M. C. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925-W CouRsE LEADING 'to DEGRElt o~ M. S. E. E.-- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRs~t LEADING TO D~GREE ott PH. D.- This course of two years of graduate study requires ~or admis- sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNll:S, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to: WI~LIS G. TucK~tR 1 M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. 'l. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. PARKERI J. NEWTON FIJtRO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $to; tuition :fee, $no. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. W .A'tSON, Registrar, Albany, N. 'l. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. ALFRED B. HuESTED, Secretary, '' Everythint; for the College Man except Esema' 1 GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS 727 Noit Street Across from College Gate Middle Section, So. College Phone 1472-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate c L

TRADE MARK The Guarantee of Excellence on Goods Electrical LATEST STYLES---MEN'S French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good S'hoea are worn. All styles and leathers LINDSAY BROS. CO. COR. STATE AND WAU.. STS. The Cain's Leading exponenta of Modern Dancing in Schenectady and Vicin· ity. New Pupi]s received every Mon- day, Wednesday & Saturday, 3 to 5 and 7:30 to 9 p. m. Pri· vate Lessons b y appointment. Assembly on Monday at 9, at ARCADE HALL Res. Phone 1920 Ha/fPhone 2710-W Fellows come down and get acquainted with G I El t • NICKLAS Phone 2322-W. enera eC riC . 169JayStreet Company Largest Electrical Manufacturer in the world 3759 EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER E. & W. Shirts and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk Hats, Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men.

See the New Spring Styles at Babbitt's See the splendid display of Babbitt Clothes as made by Rogers·Peet See the wonderful ''Frankel Fifteens'' the finest clothes tailored for $15.00 in America. ·We are sole agents in this tri-city territory /or these two makes BABBITT & CO. Albany's Greatest Clothiers 451-453 BROADWAY THE PAST AND PRESENT Keep abreast with the times. We are not living in the stage-coach decade, at which time the mentioning of flying machines would have been taken as an idle jest. In the present c.en- tury you wouldn't think of traveling as . o1ie did in by-gone days. Neither would you ha v- ing your shoes repaired by the old style hand method way, if you knew the superiority in our up-to-date machine way of repairing. BALL'S QUICK SHOE REPAIRING WORKS 525 State Street Opposit~ Waiting Room Free Order Service Telephone 3456 Higgins' r Drawin,ll Iriln ·.1 Eternal Writin~ Ink En~roasin~ Ink I Taurine Mucila~e i Photo Mounter Paato •I Drawinlt Board Paate Liquid Paate ··L Office Paate V e~etable Gluea etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-srneU ing inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to yoti, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M •. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 2 71 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N. Y. The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM CANDIES PARTY AND DINNER FAVORS 31 Steuben Street,

' . ' \: CARUSO WorJd.;famoua T ene»r. says: •r Tuxedo completely aatialiea m)' tobacco taate. It is milcl and ha delicious flavor. Moat important Gf all from a singer's standpoint. Tuxedo does not irr.itate mJI throat.,. 4 'Tuxedo Does Not Irritate My Throat'' The non-irritating qual- ity ofT uxedo which Caruso praises is. due to the original \Tuxedo Process•• hy which the tobacco is treated. This process refines the tobacco .and absolutely removes all bite and .sting. Many thousands of men think they cannot smoke . a pipe, for fear the tobacco m~ght burn or parch their mouths. Tuxedo has done away with any such pos- sibi~ity. You can smoke Tuxedo all day long, with- out any irritation whatsoever-indeed with increas- ing pleasure. The Per/eel TobGcco for Pipe and Ogardle is made from rich, mild, fragrant Kentucky Burley- acknowledged to be the finest pipe ... tobacco in the world-aged until it is pipe-perfect and smokes coolly and slowly. You cut off an inch of inspiration and real joy every hour you stay away from Tuxedo. Because it's so good, so true, so delicious, so fragrant, its memory lingers every time your smoke-appetite gets tuned up. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE (onyenient, glassine-wrappetl, Sc Famous green tin, with gold ]· 0 Doistare-proof pouch. • • • lettering, curved to fit packet · C In Tin Humidors, 40c and 80c In Glass Humidors, SOc and 90c THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY • ·. , II .

I . I . 1 , I fti.W YORK. Our Representative, Mr. Gorma,n, will be 11t the Edison Hotel on, SATURDAY, APRIL 3rd, 1915 with samples of re~dy made garments, Furnishings, • Hats and Shoes Boston Branch lV 6W['ort Branch 220 Bellevue Avenue 149 Tremont Street We Solicit YoUir Patronage. You Need Q,ur Guarantee. Clmett & Sons. One Pr·ice Piano House. EVERY THING MUSICAL. 508 State Street, Schenectady Makera. e>f Caps, Gowns and Hoods To the Americatl Colleges and Univeraitiea from the Atlantic to tb.e Pacific. Class contracts a apecialty UNION ·STUDENTS The Are in.-vjted to open a check accoaat with us. Accounts of Cl 1:1'1bs, Fraternities and Asso-ciations solicited. . . . Schenectady Trust Co. :lt:S-320 State Street To Cure Cold til BUY A GAS HEATER MOHAWK GAS· CO. Phone 2500 Pictures and Picture Framing, .Art Sup- plies and Gold Gilding. Decorating and Paper Hanging. H.o11se and Sign Painting. S. E. Stanes' Art ~tnrr No. 7 New York Central Colonnade New York Telephone Schenectady,, H. Y. •.••n t.t):~ · ., ~. i T\Ai t.:~·).~. (JMJ'\\~\''•. Hosiery, Underwear, Sweaters and KNIT GOODS FOR MEN UNITED KNITWEAR COMPANY 467 State Stree~·, Schenectady, N. Y. :. I• 1\. 2 F E

i .. Clothing Furnishings Hats.· KEELER'S ............................. EUROPEAN-- HO·TEL and Cabaret at 9 P. M. We're ready whenever you our. Why not come to-day? :. Broadway and Maiden Lane Albany, N. ·y The newest and best in each department. &J Wells & Coverly TROY \If It's Made of Rubber We Have It\ . rp. Athletic Goods Rubber Auto Goods Goods Auto Tires ill Alling Rubber Co. 229 State Street 26 Stores CANDIES Huyler's, Park & Tilford's, Pirika, No- bility. FRESH STOCK ALWAYS PHOTO DEPARTMENT Complete in Every Respect. EVERYTHING IN GOOD DRUGS Lyon's 335 STATE ST. 714 HAMILTON 13 McCLELLAN Cor. EASTERN Ave. GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies'' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms W m. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex:, 507-509 Broadway FURNITURE NEARLY 30 YEARS of honest dealings in Schenectady has placed us at the to_p notch of retailers. When you read a COFFIN BROS. ad you know it is true. We aim at all times to carry the most complete line of Kitchen Wares, Wooden Wares, toys, games, fancy goods and brassware. We invite you to call. COFFIN BROS. 303-305 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Fine Imported and D()mestic Woolens Telephone 2323- J GEORGE A. MANNY CUSTOM TAILOR 170 Jay- Street Schenectady, N. Y. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery 'Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street ••Look for the Cow's Head.\

Ready- to Wear and :Custom iMade STYLISH CLOTHES FOR YOUNG MEN Compar.isDn is the , Lever That Turns Trade Otu Way '1'his is the busiest store in Schenectady, .through inviting Comparison with merchandise you see elsewhere, where quality, fabric, superiority ot workmanship and newness of design are important features and you will prove by your own comparison, consistant alliance in all our offerings and dealings. Just step in before you buy else- where; 1'he convenience of an open account to all College Student is yours for the askin~ ... JO Per Cent reduc·tion on all purchases of $10 or over if this ad is presented a~t the time o{tJurchase .. 503 ·- 507 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Saul's G. Wm. Slaght, Mgr. N. Y. 'Phone 360-W I AM YOUR NEAREST SHOEMAKER N .. Y .. FLone 1270-W All Work Called for and Delivered Free The Union Electric Quick Shoe Repair Shop S. SOBELL, Manager. 'The only machine in the city, operating its own channel while sewing on the sole. Turns the shoe out like new. A few popular items: Mea's soles, sewed ________ 75c Ladies' soles, nailed ________ 40c Ladies' soles, sewed _______ 6Qc Men's Heels ---------------2Sc Me11''s soles, nailed ____ so to 60c Ladies' Heels ________________ 20c ,Our prices are as reasonable as can be asked. Best leather used and all work guaranteed. 603 :LIBERTY STREET, (Near Lafayette) SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Full RUBBER SOLES -- ____ -- -- -------- ------ ------------ __ $1.50, $1.'15 \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 CA.Jtl.,, DANNER, Beta Theta Pi NEAR BARNEY'S Colle•• Repreeentative 1908 1914 1915 '' ''RADNOR'' THE NEW ARROW COLLAR 2 for 25 Cents .. Let's Meet at \Joe's\ New Dining Room Students' Tuck Shop A BREAKFAST BETWEEN CLASS A FEED AT NIGHT. ORDERS DELIVEREil One Minute from Payne Gate. Back of St. John's Church. 'Phone 298-W. '122 Eastern Ave. VOl The Tr Frid; . n1ng gers on tJ hittiJ tureE GE ond day'~ very £ann liver ed. • • lllllll net. Hou a hit in tl folio Dnic stolE OUt D on a JakE You was

The Concordiensis VOL. 38 APRIL 22, 1915 NO. 22 BANG! The Baseball Season Starts With Two ·Victories-Stevens Defeated 4-0. The baseball team opened its season on Friday and Saturday of last week by win- ning two victories, over Stevens and Rut- gers respectively. The games were played on the grounds of our opponents. Strong hitting and remarkable pitching were fea- tures of both games. UNION 4; STEVENS o. Gene Hummer allowed one hit in the sec- ond and one hit in the third inning of Fri- day's game. Aside from that he pitched a very good game. Eight Stevens players fanned under the hypnotic spell of his de- livery, All four of Union's runs were earn- ed. Moynihan hit a home run in the third inning to start the heavy guns for the Gar- net. In the fourth two bases on balls to Houghton and Friday, a sacrifice hit, and a hit by Zimmer scored two more runs, and in the sixth a base on balls to Rosecrans, followed by two hits completed the total. Union played an errorless fielding game and stole five bases. Zimmer, who made two hits ou£ of four times at bat, stole two bases. First Inning. Dave Beaver fanned, Moynihan was out on an assist from Memory, at third, to first, Jake Beaver reached first on an error by Young, the Stevens first baseman. Woods was out, shortstop to first. Todd of Stevens fanned. J ohnsQn got a~ base on balls but was out on an attempt to reach third after rounding second . on J aeggle's out at first. SeconCl Inning. Erny Houghton hit safe and took second on a passed ball. Bill Friday walked. Rosecrans was safe on a :fielder's choice that derricked Friday. Zimmer and Hummer tanned. Lenthe hit safe. Bello££ was retired by Houghton unassisted.. Memory and Young struck out. Third Inning. Dave Beaver fanned. Moynihan clouted out a home run. Jake Beaver was out on a fly to left. Woods was retired, shortstop to first. Coyne took his base but was out stealing. Strupp1nan fanned. Todd hit safe but J aeg ... gle was out on a fly to Friday. Union 1, Stevens 0.. Fourth Inning. Erny Houghton got his base and stole second. Swede Friday also walked. Rose- crans advanced the Iunners but was out at first. Zimmer laced Dut a single that scored Houghton and Friday, stole second as Hum- lner was striking out, got to third on a pass- ed hall, and watched Dave Beaver fan. I~entbe struck out. Bello££ popped to Hun1mer. Memory was out, Tubby to Erny. Union 3, Stevens 0.

' : ' t I i , I I ' t 10 THE CONCORDIENSIS Fifth Inning. Moynihan popped to the catcher. Jake Beaver struck out. Woods was hit and took first. He stole second but Houghton fanned. Young was caught ~out by Houghton. Coyne fanned. Struppman popped to Moy- nihan. Sixth Inning. Swede Friday got four balls and strolled. He took second on a passed ball. Rose- crans also looked them over and drew four of a kind. Zimmer advanced Friday to third and Rosecrans to second on a clean hit. Two squeeze plays were attempted here, the first unsuccessfully. On this hit Friday;· tried 'to come home but was caught at the plate. Humn1er's hit scored Rosecrans but Zimmer failed to touch home plate and was declared out. Dave Beaver died on a scratch to Struppman. 'f'odd walked. Johnson was out, Rose- crans to Houghton. Jaeggle was out on a pop to Dave Beaver. Lenthe was hit by a pitched ball and Belloff struck out. Seventh Inning. Moynihan sprinted for iirst when Lenthe dropped his third strike, but was caught by the throw at first. The same process was repeated by Jake Beaver with equal success. \\' oods hit safely betvveen short and third base but Houghton was out on a fly to second. ~Iemory was out, Rosecrans to Hough- ton. Webb substituting for Young, popped to first. Coyne repeated the operation. Eighth Inning. Friday fanned. Webb retired Rosecrans, Zimmer popped to second baseman. Struppman fanned. Todd was out, Hum- mer to Houghton. Johnson walked and Jaeggle was out Rosecrans to Houghton. Ninth Inning. The score UNION. A. R. H. ·0. A. D. Beaver, c. ---- ,3 Moynihan, ss. ----- 4 J. Beaver, lf. ----- 4 \iVoods, 3b ------ 3 Houghton, lb --- 3 Friday, rf. -------- 1 Rosecrans, 2b ___ .... 3 Zimmer, cf _ ----- 4 Hummer, p ------ 4 0 1 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 9 1 1 0 0 1 1 1 10 0 1 0 1 2 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 5 0 1 Totals --------- 29 4 6 24 8 STEVENS. A. R. H. 0. A. Todd, c£. ----- ___ 3 Johnson, 2b ----- 1 J aeggle, ss. _ ---·-- 4 Lenthe, c. ------- 2 Belloff, 1£. ___ --·-- 3 l\1emory, 3b _ --·-- 3 Young, lb ------- 3 Coyne, rf. ------- 2 Struppman, p ----- 3 Total -------·-- 24 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 4 0 0 1 8 0 1 0 1 0 10 0 0 0 0 2 24 0 0 3 :1 0 0 () 0 3 9 Errors: Stevens, Young. Earned runs, lTnion, 4. Ho·me run-Moynihan. First base on balls-Off Struppman, 5; off Hum- n1er, 4. Struck out-By Struppman, 9 ; by Hummer, 8. Umpire-Saunders. * * * RUTGERS ALSO IS VANQUISHED. UNION 11, RUTGERS 2. After Struppman had busted the ball off Frank Moynihan's head the game was call- ed on account of darkness. Jenkins allowed only six hits in the Rut- gers gan1e Saturday while his mates ran UJ? a total of 13 hits for 11 runs. Dave Beaver opened the game after waiting out two strikes and three balls by lacing the ball beyond the out-gardeners for a home run. After this, hits were plentiful. Zimmer, n1oved up in the batting average to No. 6 position, got three hits out of five times at bat, n1.aking a total for the two days' trip of five hits out of nine times at bat. Every I, t ' I ,··, ; 1na lie\ at Go ] ho1 old IIc ] Jet Scl .. ). Fr: Be ed bn ou· fiv~ J fat Rc . D:: vv Zi1 Be st<: hi1 fly Je st<

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 11 1nan on :t11e team, except Goodman who re- lieved Jenkins in the ninth inning, scored at least one run; and .every man ~except Goodman. got at least one hit. First Inning. Right off the reel, Dave Beaver lifted that home run of his out over the banks of the old Raritan. Jake Beaver, Woods, and 1-Ioughton were retired on assists. Howlett hit safely but Durand was out, Jenks to Houghton. Lyons fanned, and Schmitt was out, Rosey to Houghton. Second Inning. Zimmer hit safe. Rosecrans was out. Friday took his base, Jenks hit safe. Dave Beaver vas hit by pitcher. Moynihan scor- ed Zimn1.er and Friday, and J. Beaver brought in Jenks and Dave. Woods flied out to leJi. Houghton was out, third to first. Four runs scored this inning for a total of five. Berg £anned. Browning singled. Henby fanned and Jennings flied out to Zimmer. Third Inning. Zinlm,er was out, Durand to Browning. Rosecra.as flied to left. Friday struck out. Howleit hit. Durand popped to Jenks. Lyons g()t his base. Schmitt flied out to Fri- day. Berg popped to Rosey. Fourth Inning. Jenks was out, Durand to Browning. Dave B~aver hit. Moynihan, J. Beaver, and vVoods scored on two hits and a passed ball. Zimmer was out, Howlett to Browning. D. Beaver liJ:eanwhile had died on an attempted steal. Brow:tdng was out, Jenks to Erny. Henby hit, Gill<tn1 fanned and Zitntner got Jennings' fly. Union 8, Rutgers 0. Fifth Inning. Tubby Rosecrans hit safe, Friday and Jenks fanned. Dave Beaver was out, short- stop to fii.rst. Howlett died when Woods caught his fly. Durand struck out. Lyons jammed through a hit. Schmitt skyed to ;Zin1.mer. Sixth Inning. Moynihan hit safe but died when Jake B,eaver hit into a double play. Durand caught Woods' fly. Berg flied to Zimmer. Jenks hit Brown- ing but Henby was fielded out by Rosecrans and ,Gillam fanned. Seventh Inning. Henby's error gave Houghton a life. Zimmer poled out a single. Rosecrans brought in Houghton but was out himself. Friday got on and sent Zimmer home. Jenk- ins and Dave B,eaver were quickly dis- patched. IIoughton put out Jennings unassisted. Howlett went back to the bench when Rose- crans assisted to Erny. Houghton got Dur- and unassisted. tJnion 10, Rutgers 0. Eighth Inning. Moynihan scratched to the pitcher who threw him out at first. Jake Beaver hit but was left on second when Woods and Hough- ton were out on flies. Lyons fanned. Schmitt got a life on rreedy's error. Briggs' hit scored Lyons.. He was thrown out on a fielder's choice when Browning hit to shortstop. Henby died, Rosey to Houghton. Union 10, Rutgers 1. Ninth Inning. Zin1n1er hit, went on when Rosecrans sauntered, but was cut off at the plate. Fri- day's hit scored Rosecrans. Jenkins was out, and Dave Beaver flied to left. Gillam got a base on balls. Jennings fan- ned. Gillam stole second and catne home on Howlett's long fly to right. Durand was out on an assist from vV oods to Hough ton. Union 11, Rutgers 2. The score:

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS. UNION. A. R. D. Beaver, c. ____ 5 2 Moynihan, ss. --.-- 4 1 J. Beaver, 1£. -------- 3 l Woods, 3b ------ 4 1 Houghton, 1b ·--- 5 1 Zimmer, cf. _____ 5 2 Rosecrans, 2b ___ 5 1 Friday, rf ------·-- 4 1 Jenkins, p --·----- 5 1 Goodman, p .--·--- 0 0 Totals ---·----- 40 11 RUTGERS. A. R. Howlett, ss ----·- 5 0 Durand, 3b ______ 5 0 Lyons, rf. ---·---- 4 0 Schmitt, lf _______ 4 1 Berg, c. --------- 4 0 Browning, lb. ___ 4 0 I-Ienby, 2b ------- 4 0 vVaterfield, p ____ 0 0 H. 0. 2 7 2 1 2 0 1 1 1 11 3 3 1 1 1 3 0 0 0 0 13 27 H. 0. 2 2 0 3 A. 0 0 0 1 0 0 4 0 8 1 14 A. 4 4 0 0 2 2 0 1 MALLEN SWIMS IN NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIPS. Under Colors of Chicago A. C. Mallen '16 ·Takes Fourth Place in 50 Yards Dash. Phil Mallen captain and manager of the Union College swimming team, swam in the national championship meet under the colors of the Chicago Athletic team. He won his preliminary heat and in the semi- final heat took second place, which quali- fied him in the finals. McGilliveray of the Illinois· A. C. won the final heat of the 50 yards dash in 24.2 seconds ; Ramme of the New York A. C. took second, H uszagh of the Chicago A. C. third, and Mallen of the Chicago .A .. C. fourth. All four men fin- ished 'vithin a margin of two or three feet. In the 100 yards dash Raithel of the Illi- nois A. C. set a new record of 54.2 seconds. In Phil's part of the 400 yard relay he swam against Raithel, who had just set the new record for the 100 yards dash. Phil swam this 100 yards in 56 seconds and was barely a foot behind Raithel. The Illinois A. C. \von the relay race. In the fancy diving, one of the Illinois Athletic Club divers hit his Gillam, cf ---·---- 4 1 Jennings, p ______ 4 0 Totals ----·---- 36 2 1 0 0 2 1 3 1 11 1 2 0 0 0 1 0 3 6 27 19 0 head on the spring-board while doing a one and one-half backward flying Dutchman. He received a fracture of the skull from which injury he died the next day. 6 Union ____ l 0 0 3 0 0 2 0 1-11 Rutgers ___ o 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1- 2 Errors-Union: D. Beaver 1, Woods, Houghton; Rutgers: Howlett 3, Berg, Jen- nings, Henby. Earned runs-Union, 2. Two base hits-Lyons, Moynihan, J. Beav-. er. Three base hit-Henby. Home run- D. Beaver. First base on balls-Off J en- nigs, 1; off Jenkins, 2; off Goodman, 1. Struck out-By Jennings, 3; by Jenkins, G ; by Goodman, 1. Left on bases-Rutgers, 10; Union, 7. First base on errors-Union, 5; Rutgers, 2. Hit by pitcher-1\foynihan, D. Beaver, J. Beaver, Browning. Time- . 2 :10. Umpire-Legge. STAGE APPOINTMENTS. Randles Chosen by Faculty as Valedictorian. At the faculty meeting held last Thurs- day afternoon in Washburn Hall, the high- est scholastic honor, that of valedictorian, was conferred on Frank Stanley. Randles of the class of 1915. Randles is in the academic department and is a candidate for the de- gree of Bachelor of Philosophy. He comes fron1 Argyle, N. Y., is a member of the Pyratnid Club and is president of the Y. M. C. A. The other honor n1en were: Ray- mond B. Arthur of Brooklyn; David T. Beaver, Jacob J. Beaver, Henry L. Faust., Roger W. Macmillan and Satnuel H . Fra ver of . Do, cho~ men men The Psi Deli Del1 F c . ~- mid '] Und Tl and batir That crea~ affin the 1 Ed d) The tnan, alten \rork undo· WE order omm( mond recon Richn cor diE who news I Richn Engli~ after, for hi1

THE CONCORDIENSIS Frankel of Schenectady; Edward Peck Cul- ver of Hudson Falls; Cornelius Mahaney of Fort Plain; Charles .Howard Purdy of Downsville. There were five seniors chosen from the engineering depart- ment and five from the academic depart- ment. Arthur is a member of the Delta Theta 'Phi fraternity, E. P. Cui ver o.f tke Psi lJpsilon fraternity, H. L. Faust of Alpha Delta Phi, R. \IV. Macmillan of Phi Gamma Delta, C. H. Purdy of Phi Delta Theta, and F. S .. Randles and Mahaney of the Pyra- mid Club. THE SOPHOMORE-FRESHMAN DEBATE. Underclass Debating Supremacy to Be De- cided in May. The first week in May, the classes of 1917 and 1918 will contend for under-class de- bating honors on the subject: \Resolved That the United States navy should be in- creased.\ 'I'he freshmen will support the affirmative and the sopho·mores will uphold the negative. trhe freshman team includes Eddy, Swart, Stei~, and Cameron, alternate. The sophomore team is composed of Koo- tnan, Tregurtha, Van Avery, and Goodman, alternate. Both sides are already hard at \rork and the usual under-class rivalry will undoubtedly make the debate interesting. EXPLANATORY. GIFTS FROM ALUMNI.· H .. M. Hanna Makes Gift of $5,000-Dr. Duane Capitalizes Goodrich-Duane Prizes. As Prexy announced in chapel on Mon- day, H. 1\!elville Hanna of the class of 1860 has .made a gift of $5,000 to the college. It wiH be recalled that Mr. Hanna visited Dr. Richmond last fall and upon his return home sent back a substantial check. This second gift makes an encouraging beginning :for the campai,gn for raisi~ng the necessary '$35,000 towards the RockefeUer Foundation fund. In addition to this Prexy has expectations of $5,000 more, leaving $25,000 to be raised be- fore commencement. Prexy returned Sat- urday £rom an extensive trip among the alumni of various cities. The alumni have been fully informed of the situation in re- gard to the Rockefeller Foundation and it is to be expected that they will not allow Union to lose the $75,000 which she will re- ceive provided $35,000 is raised within the next two months. Every effort is being made to raise the money and other gifts will, in all probability, be announced before the time expires. Dr. Alexander Duane of the class of 1878 has capitalized the Goodrich-Duane prizes given by- himself and Mr. James A. Good- rich of the class of 1878 so that these prizes will be permanent. These are given for ex- temporaneous debating. The contest is held during commencement week, and the two prizes consist of $30 and $20. CHICAGO TO SEND CHOIR TO FAIR. We feel that a word of explanation is in order regarding the Western Gateway rec- ommendation, signed by President Rich- mond, which we printed last week. The recomtnendation was not ·from President Richmond's pen but was sent to the Con- cordiensis by the Western Gateway people, who took it in abbreviated form from a newspaper report of a speech by President Richmond. This accounts for the quality of English used in the recommendation. Here- after we shall let President Richmond speak for hhnself. Arrangements have been completed for a trip to the Panama Exposition by eleven men constituting the university choir. Be- sides singing at the exposition many stops will be made en route. The men ·will take their spring examinations on the tra.in re- turning to Chicago.

14 THE 1 CONCORDIENSIS THE CONCORDIENiSlS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. EDI'TO:R-IN-CHIEF, Richard E. Taylor, '16 --------------------- 705 Nott Street. ASSISTANT EDITOR, Nathaniel A. Finch, '16 ---------- Alpha Delta Phi House. LITERARY EDITOR, Avrom M. Jacobs, '16 ------------------- North Colonnade ASSISTANT LITERARY EDITOR, James B. Taylor, '16 -------- 705 Nott Street. ASSOCIATE EDIT·ORS: D~ F~ Chapman, '17; W. M. Gilbert, '17; I-I. R. Knight, '17;. F. W. Porter, '17; R. W. Schwartz, '17. REPORTERS: F. G. Bascom, '18; E. M. Cameron, Jr., 18; W. G. Carey, '18; H. L. Cook, '18; S. B. Eddy, '18; J. E. Hulshi~er, Jr., '18; E. L. Newell, '18; S. W. Talbot, '18; J. J. Wekh,. Jr., '18. SECRETARY, F. W. Porter, '17. STAFF ARTIST, A. G. Levy, '18. BUS1NESS MANAGER, Karl E. Agan, '15 ------------------ Delta Upsilon House ASSISTANT BUSINESS MANAGER, Howard A. Glenn, '16 __ Kappa Alpha. Lodge Entered at the Post Office at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press, 206 South Center Street, Schenec:tady, N. Y~ A GOOD START IN BASEBALL. The results of Friday's and Saturday's games show that the Garnet is \right there\ with the baseball goods. It is an auspicious beginning for a chan'lpionship sea- son. What we did in football and basketball we 1nay do again in baseball. Who knows? Who cares if we do? Two games do not make a season, nor tw() victories a championship, but they do make an eve(iasting good start. Just at present the stu- dents of Old Union have two important things to do. One to rejoice over the dainty bit of bacon brought home by Captain Teedy Woods and the other to figure out a way to get the rest of that delectable article of diet. The latter is by all odds the most im- portant. Most of us, if we were asked, could not give any very rational explanation how those two games were won. Some tnight even say, \Luck.\ True, there is luck in baseball, but there is something behind luck and there is one man, at least, on the hill who CAN tell how those games were won-and that man is Coach Dawson. He knows and what he tells you students, you can put down for rock-bottom facts. He is going to keep right on doing his part toward developing a championship team and from ti1ne to time he is apt to tell you what you can do to help out. \Vhen he says anything about \support listen! and then go ahead and do what he reco1nmends. That's all. That's a tnighty small thing to ask in return for a pennant and the student who feels he can't afford that little needs a private interview with the cheer leader. 1'he tean1 has our hearty congratulations for what they have already done. The Stevens gan1e was not surprising but the victory over Rutgers after the c:lose rub last year is the kind of surprise we want to have in the future. The only way we are ever going to top off this season in approved style is for every man, tea1n man or fan, to get back of the n1an who knows, and profit by what he has to say. I;, I ' . i .. ,•\ eta~ sci~ age of pro tor: ity. r· '1Vl edt of La· to Re of ex< pr~ tio wil th( tee . 11n a.b: wr yo mt . JU~ tin ag pa on . lS de . 111 itE

THE :CO'NCORDIENSIS 15 ,•\ ED·UCATlON. The present days finds a great battle raging in the educational world between classical education on the one side and the allied forces of manual training, modern science and specialization on the other. 'rhe broad, cultural old classical education of age-long undisputed worth now receives its first serious challenge. It is the purpose of this editorial to defend the study of the classics and, if possible, to establish a proper balance between them and their rivals. A Philadelphia paper quotes the following fron1 one of America's foremost educa- tors, Dr. David Snedden: \The new high school recognizes its vocational responsibil- ity. Vocational education is the training you give a person by which he is to get a living. Cultural education is that which makes a man a good· utilizer. But cultural education of the .old type is a. bow-and-arrow education.. We need a cultural education of the twentieth century not of the seventeenth.\ Dr. Snedden places the study of Latin and Roman culture in his \seventeenth century\ curriculum. He appears even to question the value of algebra. As an iconoclast, however, he is not an illiberal one. Regarding high school training he says : \We must teach some things for the purpose of training our pupils to do others for the purpose of teaching them to appreciate. For example, we must teach them to write and speak; then we must teach them to ap- preciate the best, not only of classical literature but of current literature.\ If for no other reason th.e popul~r 'iVave of sentiment AGAINST classical educa- tion would prejudice us in favor of it, lest by chance something precious be lost in the wild stampede unless some one stay behind to preserve it till the others return. But there are other reasons for adhe1ing to the old classical education-yes the \seven- teenth century\ type and the tenth century B. C. type too. It is a hard trick of the i1nagination, but conceive if you. can, just vvhat the world would mean to you if you had absolutely no knowledge of what took place before the year 1815. What a riddle, what a mystery would the most commonplace things of your everyday life become to you. Your religion, your books, the very house in which you live would have about as much meaning for you as Emerson's essays to the African bushman. And yet this is just where we would find ourselves if there were not sotne few to keep intact and con- tinuous the chain which binds us to the ancient civilizations and of which our present age is but a link. He who has no knowldege of the relation and inter-relation of the past to the present, no true and accurate conception of the continuity, the depth, the oneness of civilization and cultures as component of civilization and culture as a whole is like the man whom Fortune gave the conception of length and breadth but forever denied the third dimension, depth. It is in order to place the individual in this true relation with the past, to locate hi1n in the universe, so to speak, that we unreservedly recon1mend classical training with its time-honored history, philosophy, .mathematics, Latin and, above all, Greek. Greek

16 THE CONCO'RDIENSIS is the keystone of the whole educational arch; . it enters and pervades 'all branches to some more or less marked degree. .we all know Greek without knowing that we know it. \Ve are all of us Greeks to some extent-some truer Greeks than others. Greek is fundamental, basic in all that is best and highest in our intellectual life-e-and are we not living in an intellectual as well as an industrial age? It is with this in view, that we dare to challenge the popular sentiment in favor of vocational training in high schools. The high school is no place for specialization. It is incapable of turning out a sixteen year old boy who can compete with the six years' product of our univer- sities' technical departments. It is merely the duty of the high schools to give their pupils the broad, fundamental classical training first and then let the college take care of the specialization. Some will continue with the classics, others will follow scientific and commercial courses, but each will be PLACED and READY to begin the process .of development to enable him best to fill that place. Thus a natural balance is estab- lished between culture and vocational education. Our position is at once both a practical and an idealistic one. Our high schools are at present unable to give the best vocational training and apparently unwilling to to give the classical training for which they are best fitted and which is their real duty. There is still something to grow to in our educational systems and we feel sure that we are not wrong. Our position is con .. ::isely stated by Matthew Arnold who says: HI know not how it is, but their commerce with the ancients appears to me to pro- duce, in those who constantly practice it, a steady and composing effect upon their judg- ment, not of literary works only, but of men and events in general.\ It is the duty then of our colleges throughout the whole country to take this stand and prepare themselves to give specialized and vocational training to those who de- sire it and at the same time to give to those who have chosen to continue the classics a thorough training in them. The high schools \vill thereby be ultimately compelled to take the position we have outlined for them and in so doing will fulfill their highest function in our educational system. . SHOULD FRESHMEN WEAR GREEN CAPS? North western College Freshmen are still permitted to cover their heads according to their own individual tastes. But the Student Council has recently written to some of the other colleges to make inquiries into the advisability of instituting a freshman cap rule. Green skull caps will probably be pre- scribed. AERONAUTICS AT MICHIGAN . Courses of study in the science of aeron- autics have recently been established by the College of Engineering at Michigan. The work is under the direction of the depart- n1ent of naval architecture.-Ex. Most college students are too flighty al- ready to pursue such a course with advant- age. .,, !' •• f·: i. ' l I I his Fn the all . gu1 An len ''G1 Fo' Sh( Fo' An Arr. l\1e Ob Bu1 De, .. Ne' Ne' I \' IZn< Let So

!' •• f·.·, i. ' l I THE CONC'ORDIENSIS. 11 M·OSES VINEY S.ERIES. In this issue Moses Viney sings for us his chac.ming little song entitled \Is W·e Free?'' From the honest, loving heart of the simple old man spring thoughts which all of us might treasure up with profit to guide 11s in our relations man with man. An outvvard charm of childhood's memories lends his utterances grace. IS WE FREE? \Go to ·sleep, yo' pickaninny, on yo' oi' brack mammy's breast Fo' de shadows ob de ev'ning am acoming down to rest. Shet y(/' eyes, yo' honey baby, dar am nuf- fin' fo' to see Fo' de l<:atydid an' possum, an' de cricket an :3· de bee An' de whippo'will an' robin an' de little chickadee Am a si eepin' in de branches ob de ol' per- simmon tree.\ l\1em'ry paints fo' me a picture ob my child- ho()d long ago; Ob de singer an' de cabin an' de snowy cot- ton row. But de y-ears dat come a rollin' in deir nebber d .. ' 1 en ut. pan Dey hab changed de pickaninny; dey hab n1ade ob him a n1an. Ne'er ag-ain will hungry bloodhound bay de fleein' nigger's track; Ne'er ag-ain will brutal driver scar my cring- in' rn udder's back. I woul<l tear him-It atn madness! Why does I forget an' rave? IZnows 1 not de world enlightened ne'er again will hold a slave? Let m.e sbet my eyes an' lis'n as de pickan ... inay- <lid, So I hears de silent n1usic, sees de unseen an' de hid. All de trees am robed in blosson1s, all de world am sweet wiv May; All de azure skies am ringin' wiv de robin's ro·ndelay. Out upon de hill top yonder, lookin' o'er de prQmised land Sturdy- lad and dainty maiden am a standin' hand in hand. From de wild a prowlin' panther-Den de vision fades away; While a shallop from de sunrise sails de golden path ob day. All around de mermaids singin' till de happy waters sleep, Den again de scene am ended wiv a demon ob de deep. All de trees am robed in blossoms, all <de world am sweet wiv June; O'er ·<ie hills wiv flauntin' banners cotnes a pageant ob de noon. Fawnin' fools in clownish gatments on deir painted horns proclaim Petty peddler-tricks ob cunning dat dishonor n1anhood's name. \Viv its train ob toilin' millions, starvin', litnpin', racked wiv pains Comes de golden car ob Dives drawn by Lazarus in chains. Once again de blare ob trun1pets frights de fragrance fro1n de flower As a leper on his palfry comes in purple robes ob power. \\/hile around, his loathsome eunuchs, ser~ vi t()rs to party greed, Plunde1· all de land ob plenty, leaYin' it a lall(l ob need.

\ : l . > I I I . ! ' 18 THE ·CONCORDIENSIS. In deir midst de cursed Judas wiv his bulg-- in' bag ob gold An' de thirty silber pieces gotten when de Christ was sold. I is but a poor ol' nigger an' a slabe I used to be, An' I looks upon de pageant an' I wonders, is we free? Come again 0 sunrise shallop, lad an' maid- en on de hill ; Come again 0 apple blossoms an' de trush' s mellow trill. Come again my dear ol' man1my, sing de song I lubbed ob yore When I was yo' \honey baby\ playin' by de cabin door. \I can hear de angels singin' wi v de con1in' ob de night, I can hear de harps a ringin' wiv de fadin' ob de light. Go to sleep, yo' honey baby, an' de music yo' will hear, Go to sleep, yo' pickaninny fo' de stars an1 shinin' clear, Shet yo' eyes, yo' pickaninny, dar am nuf- fin' fo' to fear Mammy's got her honey baby an' de angels dey an1 near.\ MOSES VINEY. GIRL 0' MY DREAMS. Girl o' my dreams, where hide you? What game ar~ you playing today? Sometimes, I am vvalking beside you, Sometimes, you are far away. You are here, you are there like a fairy. 1~hen, whisk ! You are off and away; Now you bask in the breeze in the age old trees Of the wood where the elfin play. I feel your breath in the zephyr, Your smile in the morning ray The light of you eyes in a thousand flowers, Your frown in the waning day. You sing to me by the skylark You whisper your love in the breeze The magic touch of your gentle hand Is the soul of the budding trees. I see you, I hear you, I feel you; I know you and know you not, Yet I love you, my fay, and I'll love you Till the fates shall cast my lot. Girl o' my drea1ns, my fancy, Girl o' my dreams, my fay You come to me with the spring time, Girl o' my dreams, sweet May. ROB ROY. AN INFANT IN CHURCH. 0, little, wide-eyed, restless bit of clay Staring in wonder at the airy heights Of raftered pinnacle and the softened lights, And gilded grandeur, mystic niches gray. \tVhy dost thou wonder, soul, who art to-day Part of a great Te1nple? Lo, the roll And echoing rumble of the organ's soul Tre1nble and die. A prayer is on its way .Crying for light that men may better see, Pleading for grace, for strength to battle Sin; And as the sacred words mount up on high, The heedless babe gropes at a tiny fly, Gurgling in glee. So have our own lives been Clutching at flies, while God speaks sol·- emnly. Ernest E. Blau. Fro1n the Georgetown Journal. I . i i r like . as 1 any far is t wot rea~ an~ coll ous we the wh< Th( GA ter will Ho: vVb No Bu1 E)(

I . i i THE CONCORDIENSIS 19 ON YOUR WAY. [Editors' Note: Th~ Klatter Kolurnn, like s-u.icide, solved no problems. In so far as it was humorous it failed to reflect in any way a typical Union atmosphere. In so far as it caught the evanescent thing which is the spirit of the college at play and at work, it failed to be humorous. For these reasons the editors have decided to attempt a new department which shall be strictty a college department and if possible humor- ous-this is our first joke. Before going on we wish to proclaim our indebtedness to the immortal Franklin P. Adams, from whom we shall probably crib inordinately. The more the college puts into it, the bet- GALLEY 2 ter \On You Way\ will be. \Contribs·\' will be thankfully welcomed.] SPRING. (By our own Staff Poet.) How is it that we realize that May is in the air? vVhy is it that each student stirs, uneasy in his chair? No \sound of vernal showers\ tells when our Spring is here But the crashing of an ashen bat against a horsehide sphere. EXTRA-CURRICULUM ACTIVITIES. \SAVE M .. A.SHER FROM GIRLS.\ \After a well-dressed youth, who said he was a Union College stud- ent, had been saved by police from girls· who were mauling him as a masher at Seventh Avenue and 125th Street last night, he was sent to Bellevue's pyschopathic ward.\ -Clipped from the N. Y. Mail. \V e had a pleasant vacation too. Notice is hereby served that this column intends to be death on split infinitives, \'Cyrils and other Artemus Wards. Since the faculty (with perfect right) does most of the talking around here, it is the faculty especially that we shall excoriate (to strip :off the skin or covering of; hence, to abrade; gall-· Funk and W agnall's.) Severai falls from grace have been noticed recently, but we shall refrain frotn abrading till later in the season. THE STUDENT BODY ALWAYS DlD DISLIKE ORAL QUIZZES, DEAN. Dean (in history class) : You remember the old saying that a fool can ask n1:ore ·questions than a wise man can answer, don't you? It sometitnes happens in the classroom, doesn't it? OUR NATURAL ENEMIES . . i\.t the faculty meeting held Monday, April 12th, it was decided to ratify the state- tnent in the catalogue that Easter vacation began on Friday, April 2nd, and ended on l\fonday, April 5th. The loose-leaf syste1n was recently inau- gurated in the Latin Department. Field J\lfarshal Tilley and his soccer squad are rapidly rounding into shape. [We give notice that this pilaster in the \Column\ is especially open to contribu- tors.] It is seldom that the editors of the Con- cordy hear a word of praise. Right here, hovvever, we wish to register the Column's appreciation of the \l\1oses Viney\ verses vvhich have appeared in the last two issues. Prexy has seen to it that we all know Moses' history. Let us have son1e tnore of his rhymes. Runt Churchill (gazing drean1ily out over the western horizon as the sun is sinking) : \'In the Spring the young n1an's fancy-''' Bens Paige (in the swinging bench): \So he is, so he is.\

20 'THE CONCOR.DIENSIS. TO THE PROOF-ROOM. \CoUege\ is spelled with two l's. \Colonnade\ is spelled with two n's. \.George\ is spelled with the second e after the g. For the English word tnost often mis ... used we nominate \proposition.\ ---- The proposition before us now is to find a last-line for the first appearance of \On Your Way.'' How would it be to call it a first-last-line? HAFIZ~ HONORARY CHANCELLOR. Senator Lodge Will be Honorary Chan- cellor This June. At chapel exercises on last Monday, April 19th, President Richmond announced that the College has been successful in ob .. taining Senator Henry C. Lodge fron1 Massachusetts as Honorary Chancellor for this June's commencement. Fortunate in- ded has been our college in obtaining such distinguished men for Honorary Chancellors as have honored the College in the last years. 'ro Doctor Richmond for his efforts to bring these n1en to Union we are especially grate- ful. The Honorary Chancellors since 1908 have been: Justice Charles E, Hughes, 1908 ; Joseph Choate, 1909 ; Count Johann von Bernstorff, German Ambassador to the United States, 1910; Professor William Sloane of Colum- bia and exchange professor with University of Berlin in 1911, 1911; Sir James Bryce, tormer An1erican Ambassador to Great Britain, 1912; President Seeley, 1913; ex- Senator Elihu Root of New York, 1914. THE TROY GAME. Cette se1naine-ci Iliade Gehen wir zu jouer ludum; We'll fumatu1n pork oikade Fetch chairontes-j a et crudum ! l(uklikoi seront die c:ur.s.us; Usqu'ad Himmel pilum leather Fliegen wird nor venir rursus__..., (Nisi pluvius ist weather.) Freund gaudebit mit amico; Chare effreitata estai. Hoc Mounon aperte dico : Regardez und seh' die fut fly! -Polyglossius, 'XVld * * * THE 'TROY GAME. {In Pure lJnited States.) This week we play at Troy, New York A game and hope to capture- And raw-the fumigated pork And bring it home with rapture. And trots there'll be the circuit round; ' The ball will break the window panes Of heaven and will ne'er be found- ( All this unless it rains.) Friend will show his joy to friend. And joy'll be unrestraine-d, This admonition I append Watch and be entertained! -Taurohriptetor, '16. PRESIDENTS OF COLLEGE CHRIS .. TIAN ASSOCIATIONS CONVENE. New York State District Convention Held at Union. The first annual conference of the New York State Presidents of the College Chris ... tian Associations was held last Friday, Sat ... urday and Sunday, April 16_..18, in Sillimart Hall. Union College Y. M. C. A. was the host o£ the conference, which was very sue .... cessful. Nine colleges were represented, be- side the delegates which were representing divers state committees. All the speakers were authorities on their subjects and Union was n1ost fortunate to be able to obtain such tnen. Since I've forgotten all my Latin perhaps you can tell me i£ the Ablative Plural of \Jitney'' is \Jitnibus.'' --Columbia Spectator.

If JOU want anything from QUINN'S Scke,nectady's Greatest Drug Store Just Telephone 1285 Anytime Hasty Messenge-rs Deliver all Purchases Steefel Bros. ALBANY, N. Y. For Our Mutual Benefit This store is not merely a commercial venture. It is an institution that has become inseparably associated with the highest business standards of this locality. Appreciating our responsibilities to you, we have exerted every effort, guided by out best judgement, to provide only such mer- chandise as we are confident will give the satisfaction that makes and keeps real friends. So we have no hesitation in recom • mending such superior merchandise as- Steefel Quality Clothes Johnston and Murphy Shoes Stetson Hats Manhattan Shirts Spring Display of Wall Paper is now ready a,t the Sun 5 & l'O'C Wall Paper Store Everything in Wall Paper Nothinr Over lOc Over Woolworth's. 'Phone 4454-J. 411 STATE STREET. Schenectady 81 E. Main St., Amsterdam 129-131 Glen St., Glens Falls WATERS, Custom Tailor 15 6 BARRETT STREET Imported and Domestic Woolens 15% Reduction to Students For samples and prices, see ROBERT N. LANDRETH College Hill, Phone 1915-J Smart Snug Fit Oxfords .. Mad41t on tne new Et1~~tsh dtyle last, with snug flt heel, and per· fect fitting. Nobby styles, all sizes and widths. No extra charge for our sp9clal fitting service. $4 to $8 PATTON & HALL 245 State Street, Seheneetad7.

I l I : I ' \ ' ' I , I I . i I . I i l I . ! I I I More College News GAZETTE Read It Every Day CLOTHES SHoP FoR M:e:N 340 WASHINGTON 5TAE:ET BoST·ON Suiits $25 and Up Flannels $5 and Up· HENRY WANDLESS Old Gym. Dorm. The Gell City Novelty Co. 6237 Bittner St., Dayton, Ohio. High Grade Laundry get the KILLIP Quality Laundry 719 State Street Phone 759 Schenectady, N.Y. N. K. McNEILL Cigars and Tobacco, Ice Cream, Candies and Groceries. College Idols. 108 N ott Ten-ace Schenectady, N. Y. There :is no Music Like Gi.ecia's Orchestra · 302 Washi;ngton Avenue, Albany, N. Y. Telephone. Ra·! Ra! Ra! Juniors This is for you . One portrait, (the best you have ever had taken) and a print for your Class Book for One Dollar. See W. A. R ughes, Pyrat~tirl Cluh, College Representative The Studio of Mabelle Primmer Z41 STATE STREET Over Patton & Hall Schenecta:.dy's Leading Flower Shop 3Julius £gtr ORCHIDS, ROSES AND VIOLETS 735 State Street ED, THE THE BARB::ER SHOP FOR Cor. State and Centre Sts., Over Douglass New Shoe St()re BARBER UNI!.QN MEN ,Absolutely Sanitary. First Class :Service. Ask the Man Who's been Here. The New Hygienic Lunch and Restaurant Most Sanitary Lunch Room in Seh.enectady Specialty-Reasonable Prices, Comfortable I , i . f c

Bellinger Paint Co. PAINTS, OILS Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishe& 212 So. Centre .St. A. R. Zita's Orchestra .. ~·~ ~··.~ Walk-Over,s.hoes will take ~~ ...., you anywhere and ·back. LET YOUR NEX'l' ·pAIR BE Walk-Overs. 407 State Street, Schenectady furnished music at Union College 1905 'o6, 'o7, 'o8, 'og, '10; '1r, '12 '13 .& '14 Best Dance Music in the World H. R. PHONE Main3483-W Qf·f• d R 167 H -It St AJ·b Only the Best Service. None Better for Concert ' ICe an es., . ami ·OD · t · : any TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL JAMES F. BURNS Electrical Supplies. .Study Lamps, Portables, Etc. 442 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. \UNION NATIONAL BANK'' 334 State Street Solicits Accounts of Students R. WIRTH Periodicals, Confectionery, Cigars, Cigar- ettes. All latest Desserts served at his fountain. Catering to College and High School func- tions a specialty. Music furnished if desired. 135 NOTT TERRACE Bell 'Phone 1356-M. Suits Made to Order from $l8 to $35. A. GARUCKY Custom Tailor for Ladies' and Gentlemen Sanitary Cleaning, Pressing, Altering and Re- pairing of Ladies' and Gents' Garments. 870 Eastern Ave., Bet. Wendell & Morris Aves. ~Cigars Ice Cream Soda .St. Regis Pharmacy, 600 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles HOME MADE CANDIES N.H. Weaver CIGARS CIGARETTES 130 NOTT TERRACE N.M.READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER Room 74 Parker Building. Special Rates to Students Telephone 620-W LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMET'RIST 126 State Street Eyes Tes.ted and Gl.-eses Fitted THE ROLLINSON STUDIO Quality Phot()graphy 4 'W atch the Show Case\ RINDFLEISCH'S Artistic Parisian Dye Works 116 Jay Street.

I i I I I I I i I I I . I ; I : I i I : I I I l : I ' i . I ' i : l ' I I \ ; ! l : I , I I , ' I i ! ' I ' ' I .·, .1, . j I \When Good F eDows Get Together'' You will find fresh-rolled cigarettes of deliciously mellow \Bull'• Durham in evidence at banquets, club smokers and other social gatherings of men of wealth, prominence and experienced tastes. In the fragrant smoke of this mild, delightful tobacco formality gives way to congenial good-fellowship. If you would be fashionable, expert in the company of connoisseurs, you \roll your own\ -and your tobacco is \Bull\ Durham. GENUINE ··BuLl DURHAM SMOKING TOBACCO To millions of experienced smokers there is no other tobacco fragrance comparable to the wonderful, unique, mellow-sweet flavor of \Bull'\ Durham-no other cigarettes so fresh, tasty and satisfying as those they roll for themselves with this golden .. brown, bright Virginia-North Carolina tobacco. Roll a \Bull\ Durham ciga- rette today -you will experience a distinctive form of tobacco enjoyment. FREE An l~lustrated Booklet, showing correct way to \RollY our -;;;;.-~--._.. Own\ Cigarettes, and a package of cigarette papers, will both be mailed, free, to any address in U. S. on request. Address \Bull\ Durham, Durham, N.C. Room 1400. THE AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. Aak lor FREE pac:ka11e of • • paper• \\ with eac:h 5c: •ac:lr.

OF COURS:E there is always a caH for Dollars·. It's true however that some of these calls are most necessary. Save for the necessa·ry ones In the The Schenecta~dy Savings Bank COR. STAT·E AND CLINTON The Edison ' I Baseball American Plan All Outside Rooms Rates $2.50 to $4.00 I. by Clarke and Frederic·k T. Dawson $1~00 Net Special Meal Ticket, 8 meals for $5 The Gleason Book Co. 104 Jay Street Gleason Building Edwin Clute, Prop. Schenectady, N. Y. •. \On your way to the post office\ The PURE FOOD Store I!.I THE MOHICAN MARKET I! t ~ 11 . The Big Store Around the Corner r. 161 JAY STREET,. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. THE OUTLET The PURE FOOD Store 140 JAY STREET, Opposite Van Curler Brokers and Jobbers of fine Custom Made Garments $10.95 for any Overcoat or Balmacaan in the store Full Dress Suits For Rent Wally Girling representing WILLIAM KIRKPATRICK Exclusive Foot Wear -agent for- The J & M Shoe Sweaters and Banners R. E. REEVES handles our line in Union 132-134 Fulton Street, New York Arthur Mfg Co. LowviUe, N.Y.

'The Schenectady C.lothing Co. 'Clothing for College Men Stein\'Bloch and Hiekey~Freeman Suits artd Overcoats cut to your measure $20 upward Full - Dress Acceessories A.rrow Collars Oakes' Sweaters i The newest in hats: at all times The .Schenectady Clothing Co. 313-31:5 State Street Telephone 91-W · Tbe OAK Barber Shop · 426 STATE STREET. M. F. ALBE, Prop. CHARLES DERWIG FINE CUSTOM T AlLURING CLEANING AND PRESSING. 18 Barrett Street 'Phone 354- W. Between Union and Liberty Streets. ENDWELL Shoes J Our Goodyear Welt Shoes fit perfectly and are very stylish in appearance; besides . they wear like iron. What more could· you ask? Endicott, Johnson & Co. 206 So. Centre Street Near State . JUST WRIGHT SHOES For Particular Men- $4.50 and up Real Value and Style are assured by the Name Geissler & Ryan 173 Jay Street P. J. KENN:EY CUSTOM TAILOR Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing College Clothing a Specialty · Cor. Jay & Liberty St. Schenectady, N. Y. ·'MURAD ' . . • I (] THE TURKISH CtGARE1\TE. ·',..-.--. If I'.·, ·, Last year more MURADS were smoked than any other 15eTurkish cigarette in the world. 15c ~ Makers of the Hifl,h- est (}rade Turkish Q\;z.Cl Egyptian Cigarettes in tht World. ' - , R H S· I 'I 1 • '

Stoll's Hofbrauhaus 162-64-66 Jay Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Will Serve Real German Meals at All Hours at Moderate Prices. MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT EVENINGS. Nicely Furnished Rooms by Day or Week. Telephone 1938. MAX NOW A, Prop. A unique German place, Catering to private parties in and out of the house .. Mandeville, '17 Representative on the Hill. H. J. Schwartz Tailoring Co. Snappiest Made-to-Measure Clothing at less than \Ready-Made\ Prices. Dress Suits from $25 up. 9 Proctor's Arcade, W edgeway Building. The Liberty Bell Adjustable Lamp A LAMP FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Representative on the Hill, Girling, '17. Hallbauer-Hardman Mfg. Co. 957 State Street. Telephone 1909-W Electric City Barber Shop EDWIN POSSON, Prop. Special Attention Given to Face and Scalp. 436 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone Connections A. STOODLEY People's Bal\er 423 Union St. Schenectady, N. Y. C. A. Whelan & Co. Cigars and Tobacco 301 and 443 State St. Schenectady Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. Phone 4489. H 'EN IT RAINS . ·IN A HURRY . · OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS The Capitol District's Greatest Trunk and Leather Goods Store Buy baggage with the 5 year guarantee ,..\..WA'r'.t 177 Jay Street --~\- 110 No. Pearl St. Schenectady, N.Y. -9~(. Albany, N. Y. REPAIRING SPALDING'S for nearly forty years-have been the ones to think out, and put on the market, things really new in sport. Are you posted on just what's new this year! A G S ldl • & B 126-128 Nassau Street . .. pa ng fOS. 520 5th Ave., New York Send for Catalogue Schenectady's Leading Restaurant GLENN'S 422 State Street MY STOCK OF Fall Hats and Haberdashery is now complete.. An inspection is solicited. JOSEPH NUSBAUM, 336 State Street, Gazette Building 2Oth Century Lunch CHOC:OLA TE PIE WITH WHIPPED CREAM, OUR SPECIALTY 154 Jay Street, ''On your way to the Post Office\

i j ! I I ' ! I I I i ! I I ' I i ! : l : I I \ i i l ' I I I I I l 1 I ! I . i l I l l \ ' SUITS FOR COLLEGE MEN Made by Hart, Schaffner & Marx Double Breasted Models, Single Breasted Straight Front Stylea, and the newest ideas in soft roll, two and three button coats are all here-all made for us by those wonderful Hart, Schaffner & Marx tailors. College men like these clothes better than any other clothes made and the men of Union are showing us that they do. We are glad to show them to you any day that you can give us time. 240-244 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY Schenectady ~ Art Press v~

~· . Games with R. P. I. and Colgate VOL. 38 APRIL 29, 1915 NO. 23

I I . ' l ! UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL.D ... Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. Oeurses leading to the degree of A.. B. CLASSICAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CouRSlt B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. I. Cour•e leading to the degree o:l Ph. B. LATIN-SCIEN'l'I:FIC CouRSE- This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading to the degree of B. S. ScntN'l'I1IC CouRs~t- This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leading to the degree of B. E. GEN~RAL ENGIN~ERING CouRsE- This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and som.e training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEltRING CouRsE- This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELEC'l'RICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-Tb.is course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 1. Vouraes leacllng to graduate degreel!!f. CouRst LEADING To DEG:ttEE ott M. C. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W CouRsE LEADING ro DEGRE!t ott M. S. E~ E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRsE LEADING To DlGREE OJ! PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M .. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNJts, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to: WILLIS G. TucKJtll, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. PARKER, J. NJtw'tON Fxuo, President. · Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years ; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $to; tuition fee, $110. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. WArsoN, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. ALFRED B. H UESTED, Secretary, \Everything for the C(}llege Man except Examt\ GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate Middle Section, So. College Phone 14 72-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate -

. TRADE MARK The Guarantee of Excellence on Goods Electrical :LATEST STYLES---MEN~S French, Shriner . & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 :Known wherever Good Shoes are worn. All styles and leather• :. 'LINDSAY BROS. CO. COR. STAT£ AND WAIL STS. The Cain's LeadinJl exponents of Modern Dancing in Schenectad7 and Vicin· ity. New Pupils received ev-ery Mon- day, Wednesday & Saturday, 3 to 5 and 7:30 to 9 p.m. Pri- vate Lessons by appointment. Assembly on Monday at 9, at ARCADE HALL Res. Phone 1920 Hall Phone 2710-W Fellows come down and get acquainted with General Electric NICKLAS ~~9nja; 3 ~:;:; Company . EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER Largest Electrical Manufacturer in the world 3759 •, c' E. & W. Shirts and Collars, F ownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk Hats, Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men.

l j- I l ~ I i , I I ' See the New Spring Styles at Babbitt's See the s,plendid display of B'abbitt Clothes as made :by Rogwrs-Peet See the wonderful ''Frankel Fifteens'' the finest clothes tailored for $15.00 in America. We are sole agents in lfzis tri-city territory /or these two makes BABBITT & CO. Albany's Greatest Clothiers 451-453 BROADWAY THE PAST AND PRESENT Keep abreast with the times. We are .. not living in the stage-coach decade, at which time . the mentioning of flying machines would have · been taken as an idle jest. In the present cen- tury you wouldn't think of traveling .as o11'e did in by-gone· days. Neither would you ha v- ing your shoes repaired by the old style hand method way, if you knew the superiority in our up-to-date maohine way of repairing. BALL'S QUICK SHOE REPAIRING WORKS Higgins' ( Drawin4lnka ·1 Eternal W ritin4 Ink . En~roasin& Ink i 'Taurine Mucila~e Fhoto Mounter Paste · ~ Drawin.Z Board Patte l Liquid Paate Office Paste Ve~table Gluea etc. ARE THE FINlST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Ema'Ilcipate yoursel'f from corro- sive and ill~sme11ing inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGG1NS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put 'llp, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M .• HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chieago and London 525 State Street Free Order Slervice Opposit~ Waiting Room 271 Ninth St. Telephone 3456 Brooklyn, N. Y. The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM CANDIES PARTY' AND DINNER FAVORS 31 Steuben Street,

WilliamFaversham Famous Actor, says uA pipe of Tuxedo keeps me feeling physically fit and in good •pirits, and, because it i• mild and doean't bite, it is pleasant to the thrGa.t and keepa my voice in good tone.,, Tuxedo Keeps You Physically Fit Every playgoer has remarked :the virility and clean-cut vigor of William F aversham, both as an actor and as a man. No matter what ,part he is play- ing; he always presents a figure of alert strength and keen wits. His voice is especially engaging, clear, carrying and sonorous. ForT uxedo tobacco to gain a testimonial from such a man, stating that it helps to keep him \physically fit and in good spirits\ and keeps his voice \in good tone\ goes far toward convincing you of Tuxedo~s wholesome, all-round value to you. Tlze Per/eel Tobacco for Pipe czn4 Cigarette Tuxedo will put snap and vim into your daily work. It's an inspiring tobacco that will keep, you fit as a fiddle, full of zest, hearty and happy and hale. You can smoke it all day long, and each succeeding pipeful will glow with greater cheer. The original, exclusive \Tuxedo P-rocess'; has many imitators-but no equal. Try Tuxedo for a week, and you 9 1llike it forever. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE Convenient, glassine -wrapped, Sc Famous greem tin, with gold } 0 moisture-proof pouch • • • lettering, corved to fit pocket · C In Tin Humidors, 40c and BOc In Glass Rr1midors, 5 Oc and 90c THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY • • • •• . -. . .·

l I £STAISU5H£b 1818 ICW YORK. Our Representative, Mr. Gorman, will be at the Edison Hotel on SATURDAY, APRIL 3rd, 1915 with samples of ready made garments, Furnishings, Hats and Shoes Boston Branch 149 Tremont Street J.V 6WjJo1it Branch 220 Bellevue A venue We Solicit Your Patronage. You Need Our Guarantee. Cluett & Sons. One Price Piano House. EVERY THING MUSICAL. 508 State Street, Schenectady Makers of To Cure Cold til BUY A GAS HEATER MOHAWK GAS CO. Phone 2500 Pictures and Picture Framing, Art Sup- plies and Gold Gilding. Decorating and Paper Hanging. House and Sign Painting. Caps, Go-wns S E St ' . . . anes and Hoods i\rt ~tnrt To the American Colleges and Universitiea from No. 1 New York Central Colonnade the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty New York Telephone Schenectady, N. Y. UNION·. STUDENTS The Are invited to open a check account with us. A'ccounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . Schenectady Trust Co. 31 S-320 State Street Hosiery, Underwear, Sweaters and KNIT GOODS FOR MEN . UNITED KNITWEAR COMPAN'Y 4Gi State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. ' ::

' .: Clothing Furnishings H·ats. We're ready whenever you our. Why not come to-day? ·The newest and best in ea'Ch departm·ent. ~ Wells & Coverly TROY \If It's ·Made of Rubber We Have It\ • m Athletic Goods Rubber Auto Goods Goods Auto Tires LU Alling Rubber Co. 229 State Street 26 Stores· CANDIES Huyler's, Park & Tilford's, Pirika, No- bility. FRESH STOCK ALWAYS PHOTO DEPARTMENT Complete in Every Respect. EVERYTHING IN GOOD DRUG.S Lyon's 335 STATE ST. 714 HAMILTON 13 McCLELLAN Cor. EASTERN Ave. KEELER'S --EUROPEAN-- H'OTEL and Cabaret at 9' P. M. Broadway .and Maiden Lane Albaoy, N. Y GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms Wm. H. Ke.eler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway FURNITURE NEARLY 30 YEARS of honest dealings in Schenectady has placed us at the top notch of retailers. When you read a COFFIN BROS. ad you know it is true. We aim at all times to carry the most complete line of Kitchen Wares, Wooden Wares, toys, games, fancy goods and brassware. We invite you to call. COFFIN BROS. 303-305 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Fine Imported and Domestic Woolens Telephone 2323- J GEORGE A. MANNY CUSTOM TAILOR 170 Jay Street Schenectady, N. Y. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. 'Ferry Street Creamery • 'Phone 12()8 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head.\

, I I I , I . ' I, I I' I I i I i: Ready to Wear and Custom Made STYLISH CLOTHE,S Comparison is the Lever That Turns Trade Our Way FOR YOUNG MEN This is the busiest store in Sc]itenectady, through inviting Comparison with merchandise you see elsewhere, whe,re quality, fabric, super,iority ot workmanship and newness of design are important features and you will prove by your own comparison, consistant alliance in all our offerings and dealings. Just step in before you buy else- I where. The convenience of an open account to all College Student is yours :for the ·I asking. 10 Per Cent reduction on all purcl1ases of $10 or over if this ad is presented at the time of purchase. 5()3 - 507 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Saul's G. Wm. Slag;ht, Mgr. N. Y. 'Phone 360-W I AM YOUR ·NEAREST SHOEMAKER fi. Y. Phone 1270- W All Work Called for and Delivered Free The Union Electric ;Quick Shoe Repair Shop . S. SQ~BELL, Manager. The only machine in the city, operating its own channel while sewing on the sole. Turns the shoe out like new. A few popular items : Men's soles, sewed ________ 7Sc Ladies' soles, nailed ________ 40c 1-~adies' soles, sewed _______ 6Qc Men's Heels ---------------25c Men's soles, nailed ____ SO to 60c Ladies' Heels ________________ 20c Our prices are as reasonable as can be asked. Best leather used and all work guaranteed. eoa LIBERTY STREET, (Near Lafayette) SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Full RUBBER SOLES __________ -------- ------ ------------ __ $1.50, $1.75 \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 CARL DANNER, Beta Theta Pi Collelle R~t>rt\aent~tive ''RADNOR'' TH'E NEW ARROW COLLAR 2 for 25 Cents. NEA:R BARNEY'S 1908 1914 1915 Let's Meet at \Joe's\ New Dining Room Students' Tuck Shop A BREAKFAST BETWEEN CLASS A FEED AT NIGHT. ORDERS DELIVERED One Minute from Payne Gate. Back of St.. John's Church. 'Phone 298- W. 722 Eastern Ave. v s tl tl tl h 0 t] 1< it h E c 0 t t £~ fi a . 1: c t r ( 1

The Concordiensis VOL. 38 APRIL 29, 1915 NO. 23 THE GAME AT TROY. Third Victory Won by Close Margin. For eight innings over at Rensselaer last Saturday afternoon, R. P. I. and Union bat- tled along o11 even terms. The Trojans in the second inning had scored a run on a wild throw and a hit. In the sixth the Garnet had tied up the game when Hummer beat out a bunt, took second on a sacrifice, got third on a fielder's choice and scored 011 a long fly to center from Zimmer's bat. Thus it turned out that Humn1er practically won his own game. But with one down in the ninth, Rose- crans walked. Byron whaled the ball out to right field past the fielders. Rosecrans scored with Byron close behind him. But Byron was ruled out because he failed to connect with first base on his trip around. In the first inning both sides went out in order. In the second R. P. I. scored its soli- tary run. A double play following upon this run evacuated the bases. The next four innings went uneventfully. Until the fifth Ferris, pitching for the Trojans, did not allow a single hit, while Hummer was pitch- ing good ball. No more excitement oc- curred until the ninth when Union scored the winning run. In the second half of the ninth inning Rensselaer lost her last chance of scoring. Falon hit safely to right. Mc- Maus tried to sacrifice but only succeeded in tapping out to Hummer. Haber bunted, but forced Falon at second. On the next pitch I-Iaber stole, and Dave Beaver's throw to catch him was high. Haber took third on the error. Behan could not come through with th.e necessary hit, however, and was out, leaving Haber on third. H umn1er pitched a remarkable game. He allowed only four hits, walked only one man, and fanned nine. Ferris was not so good. Five hits were garnered off his delivery, he passed three men, and struck out two. The Garnet, however, made four errors, two of which were costly. A detailed account of how the winning runs were scored shows that in the sixth H ununer led off with a bunt along the third base line. Dave Beaver sacrificed and J\ioynihan strolled. One out and a man on first and second. Jake Beaver lined the ball toward third but Haber 1nade a pretty stop. Hummer was coming down and the third baseman hesitated an instant too long to catch him. Then he threw to first, too late to catch Jake. Zimmer sent a long fly out to right which enabeld Hummer to score. Houghton tapped to third base and Haber threw him out. In the ninth, Rosecrans' ability to wait out the pitcher, and Byron's hot fly which Behan misjudged were responsible for the . . w1nn1ng run. The score:

i ' I I . I I , I . i I I I ; ' I , ' ' I . I I i l ! ' I . I : I ' I I . I , I I I i I ! I I , I 1 I I I I I I I ' I I I I I I .I : ; . I I I . J i 10 THE CONCORDIENSIS UNION. A. R. H. 0. A. D. Beaver, c. --·-·- 3 0 0 10 2 Moynihan, ss. ---- 3 0 0 3 2 J. Beaver, 1f --·--- 4 0 1 3 0 Zimmer, cf ------ 3 0 0 0 0 Houghton, lb ---· 4 0 0 5 0 Rosecrans, 2b ---- 2 1 1 3 1 Byron, 3b -------- 4 0 2 2 1 Friday, rf. ------ 4 0 0 0 () Hummer, p ------- 3 1 1 1 2 Totals -------- 30 2 5 27 8 R. P. I. A. R. H. 0. A. Johnson, 2b ------- 4 0 0 2 0 Culver, c -------- 3 0 0 2 1 Falon, lb -------- 4 0 2 10 0 McManus, ss ---- 4 1 0 2 3 Haber, 3b ----·--- 4 0 1 '2 3 Behan, rf -------- 4 0 0 2 1 Schiller, If --·-·---- 3 0 0 5 0 Woodworth, c --- 3 0 1 2 2 0 0 '> ~ Ferris, p --------- 3 0 Totals -------- 32 1 4 27 12 Union _____ o 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1-2 R. P. I. _____ o 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0-1 Errors--lJnion: D. Beaver, J. Beaver, By- ron, Houghton; R. P. I.: Falon, McManus. Two base hit-Falon. Three base hit-By- ron. Sacrifice hits-D. Beaver, Zimmer. Stolen base- Haber. Left on bases~Union, 5; R. P. I., 4. Double play-Moynihan to Rosecrans. Struck out-By Hummer, 9; by Ferris, 2. Base~ on balls-Off Hummer, 1 ; off Ferris, 3. Time-1 :45. Umpire- Crovvthers and Bridges. Unfortunately the official report of the Col- gate game was received too late for this issue. CONCORDY DINNER. On Friday evening, April 23, the scribes '\vho comprise the Concordy Board, met for their anual dinner at the house of that 'veil-known publican, Glenn. Everything contributed to the creation of an esprit du corps which was truly artistic and liter~ ary. At the head of the table sat Charley Waldron, perhaps thinking of copy for the next issue of the Alumni Monthly. On his left was De Witt Clinton, whose profile, as Charley Waldron pointed out, is especially sui ted to a librarian. Opposite him shone that full round radiant orb which belongs to Jeff Delchamps, who is a conspicuous ex an1ple of Union's cultured engineers. A. little farther down the table sat Editor-in- Chief R. E. Taylor with his brother, both laden with Argive lore. Th~re was Jacobs, the Concordy's literary editor, scarred vet- eran of forensic frays. Upon the God-like brow of Gummy Glenn, as he regarded the variegated surface of his Chicken Okra, set- tled a vision of map1moth subscription lists and full-page ads. The commingled sounds of mixing drinks and preparing pabulum for the maw of mortals, issuing from the bar in front and the kitchen in the rear, brought thoughts of Francois Villon bending over a tipple of wine and a bit of roast fish, or of another group of illustrious men of let- ters who used to meet at the Mitre around \the table on which stands the omelet for Nugent and the lemons for Johnson.\ After the dinner provided by Messrs. Efughes and Talbot, the com1nittee, had been disposed of, everyone broke into his pack of Omars, and pushed back to listen to the speeches. Charley Waldron was toastmaster. He first spoke of his intense interest in the students and of the regret he felt at drawing farther away each year fron1 his student days. The first speaker was Jacobs, who told about the banquet he at- tended in New York at the co-nvention of college publication editors and managers. \We were told by Talcott Williams,\ he said, \that no journalist is so free in the expression of opinion from obligations po- litical or financial, as the writers in college pap upc sho spo yea bes cor1 '\Va~ bri( con wa~ the the yea the the the frai . SlOt pap Clit con pre~ nali troc wor nua Ne, said pre~ sorr goo par1 the me wor app: the beg solu . 1ng, I sb nes~ COUl atte

'I'HE CONCORDfENSIS papers. This fact places especial dignity upon those who conduct such papers, which should be highly prized.\ Jacobs also spoke of the cup which is awarded each year to that. college paper presenting the best editorial for the year, and of the Con- cordy's chance of winning this cup. Jacobs ,vas foUowed by Mandeville who spoke briefly concerning the work of the Con- cordy and its relation to the Press Club. He was followed by Del champs who reviewe J the recent improvements in the conduct of the Concordy and prophesied a successful year under the new auspices. Taylor was the next on the program. He stated what the policy of the Concordy would be during the coming year and said that he would re- frain from prophesying as to what the deci- sion would be regarding the merits of the paper during his administration. De Witt Clinton spoke briefly and in a humorous vein concerning his connection with various press clubs and of his experience as a jour- nalist. The last speaker was Prexy, who in- troduced his remarks concerning journalistic work by relating his experience at the an- nual dinner of the Associated Press held in New York last winter. \For the amusement of the company,\ he said, \there were several vaudeville artists present of various degrees of respectability, some worse than others, and none of them good ; and altogether it was a very hilarious party. J\1r. Miller, the Editor-in-Chief of the N e1v York Times, who presided, assured me that there was no worse audience in the world to address and I assured him that I appreciated it fully. When I arose to speak the room -vvas in an uproar; I attempted to begin by telling a story, but I was ab- solutely un~ble to gain a respectfully hear- ing, so raising my voice to its highest pitch I shouted, 'Gentlemen, the newspaper busi- ness is the wor'st conducted business in the country today!' and immediately I had their attention. I proceeded to tell them that they drew contrasts in their favor between the mechanical ·equipment of their own papers and the hand-press of Benjamin Franklin, but that they could not compare their out- put of ideas \\vith Franklin's. Afterwards many of then1 came to me and told me that I was right; and a study of the ephemeral publications of to-day will certainly reveal an inferiority in the output of ideas.\ \The Concordiensis,\ he continued, ''of- fers a field for son1e of the best work that can be done in the college. It is true that things are tried out in the press, but I know from what newspaper men themselves have told n1e that they are not free to express their own personal opinions but are under the restraint of the owners. They sell their brains. But nevertheless there is a referen- dum which tries things out in the press. You are free fro1n such trammels ; nobody forces you; nobody presses you; you are not gagged. And, therefore, I think that you ought very carefully to consider, when you are writing anything for publication what its effect is going to be. Things which no one would pay any attention to when spoken by an individual will be very seriously con- sidered if written down and printed by the very same individual; there is that remark- able difference between the effect of the written and the spoken word.\ Dr. Richmond pointed out two or three particulars in which he thought the Con- cordy could be in1.proved. The dignity and honor of being on the Concordiensis board he thinks should be enhanced by tnaking competition keener. He made comparisons between Princeton, Yale, and Union. At Princeton in his time there \vere only four hundred students and yet cotnpetition for places on the Princetonian and the Tiger was exceedingly keen, and trying out for the Yale News is a very fonnidable business. He would be glad to see, he said, a per- n1anent cover design that is a good one, adopted. l-Ie called attention to the fact

I : i : I I ! ' l I I . I I . i ' I : i I I I I l . I . I . I 12' THE CONCORDIENSIS that the cover of such publications as the Edinburgh Review and Blackwood's Maga- zine have not been changed during all the :years that those magazines have been pub- lished. He said he hoped that in time we would have another publication here, a n1onthly or a quarterly which would be an entirely l~i terary publication. The Concordy he thought should be devoted to college news and should not trouble much about outside affairs. \1\faintain the literary spirit,\ he said,\ and the classical spirit,-for I can u.se that word in its broad sense. Union has no tendency to become a technical school, as some believe, but she is distin- guished for her classical spirit, and it should be preserved.\ TENNIS TO DATE. Matches With Rutgers and Wesleyan. The tennis team has not had the shining victories that the basebal team has had, but nevertheless the team has played fined and we have brighter prospects for future matches. Rutgers-Union. SINGLES. First Match. Brovvn-Lee, Rutgers 6-2, 6-2. ~ ,' Second Match . I c Girling- Wells, Union, 6-2, 8-6. Third Match. Beckett-I-Ieitkamp, Union, 6-2, 11-9. Fourth 1\1atch. Soler-Richardson, Rutgers, 6-3, 6-4:. DOUBLES. First Match. Brown and Girling-Lee and Test, Union, 0-6, 6-4, 7-5. Second Match. Beckett and Soler-Wells and Heitkamp, B:utgers, 2-6, 6-2, 6-4. Final score: Rutgers, 3 ; Union, 3. Wesleyan-Union. SINGLES. First Match. Girling--Richards, Wesleyan, 6-3, 6-4. Second Mtach. B,eckett-Hoffman Union 6-2 6-1. ' . ' ' Third Match. Brown-Patten, Wesleyan, 6-0, 6-4:. Fourth Match. Soler-Jones, Wesleyan, 6-0, 6-1. DOUBLES. First Match. Girling and Soler-Richards and Hoffman, \Vesleyan, 10--8, 6-1. Second Match. Brown and Beckett-Patten and Jones, \Y esleyan, 6-3, 6-2. Final score: Wesleyan, 5; .union, 1. INTER-FRATERNITY BASEBALL. Complete Schedule. The results of all Inter-Fraternity League games to date will be published in the next issue of the Concordiensis together with the percentage standing of every fraternity. The co1nplete schedule fo.Uows .i-\.pril 30-Kappa Alpha vs. Delta Phi. lVf ay 1-Alpha Delta Phi vs. Phi Gamma Delta. May 3-Sigma Phi vs. Delta Phi. J\1ay 4-Beta Theta Pi vs. Phi Gamma Delta. l\tlay 5-Alpha Delta Phi vs. Delta Theta Phi. May 6-Phi Delta Theta vvs. Pyramid Club. May 7-Kappa Alpha vs. Psi Upsilon. May 10-Phi Delta Theta vs. Delta Theta Phi. lVIay 11-Sigm.a Ph.i vs, Psi Upsilon. May 12-Beta Theta Pi vs. Phi Delta Theta. l\1ay 13-Delta Phi vs. Delta Upsilon. May 14-Phi Gam~ma Delta vs. Pyramid Club. May 17-Psi Upsilon vs. Chi Psi. c: T p p 0 . lf ti Y' ti s1 S< c b u g fl g a i1 b t f c .. 1 t t

THE CONCORDIENSTS 13 11ay 18-Alpha Delta Phi vs.. Pyran1id Club. 1fay 19--Kapa Alpha vs. Delta Upsilon. !1ay 20-Beta Theta Pi vs .. Pyramid Club. 1\llay 21-Del ta Phi vs. Chi Psi. May 24-Phi Gamma Delta vs. Delta Theta Phi. May 25-Sigma Phi vs. Delta Upsilon. May 26-Alpha Delta Phi vs. Delta Theta Phi. May 2\/-Kappa Alpha vs. Chi Psi. May 28-Beta Theta Pi vs. Delta Theta Phi. · June 1-Sigma Phi vs. Chi Psi. June 2-Delta Upsilon vs. Psi Upsilon. RULES AND REGULATIONS Of the Inter-Fraternity Baseball League of Union College. RULE 1. The League shall be divided into two sections; the six oldest fraterni- ties shall constitute Section A and the six youngest fraternities shall constitute Sec- tion B. The winning team of each section shall play one game at the end of the sea- son to decide the championship of Union College. RULE 2. All 'varsity men shall be de- barred from playing in any of the games under this League. (See list.) RULE 3. Only active members (under,.. graduates in college) of the respective fraternities shall be eligible to play in any game. RULE 4. Each fraternity shall furnish at least one good ball at the games in which it plays. RULE 5. The umpire of any game shall be chosen by the captains of the opposing teams. Any 'varsity man, member of the faculty, or student who is not a member of either contesting fraternity shall be elig ... ible to umpire. RULE 6. Postponed games can be de- termined by the captains of the opposing teams. RULE 7. All interpretations of these rules and disagreements shall be settled by the Inter-Fraternity Conference. RULE 8. Games to be played at 4:45 P.M. RUI~E 9. Each fraternity to piay one 7-inning game with every other fraternity. THE PEACE LECTURE B·Y HAMIL- TON HOLT. On Wednesday evening, April 21, Hamil- ton Holt, editor of The Independent, spoke in the College chapel before the local Peace Society. Mr. Holt is a strong worker for universal peace which he hopes will come at the end of the present war by interna- tional union. As long, however, as arma- ments are maintained, they should be main- tained adequqately, not, however, to the point of militarism. Mr. Holt reviewed the arguments against war-the moral, economic and biological, and sketched the progress of world peace. The lecture was well attend- ed, a fair proportion of the audience being students. · Next week's Concord y will contain an ac- count of Dr. Adam's sermon Tuesday night, received too late for this issue. ANOTHER GIFT. Since H. Melville Hanna's gift of $5,000, Prexy has received $1,200 from Freling H. Stnith, an alumnus of the cla£s of '65. This sum will count of the $35,000 which we must raise before commencement toward the Rockefeller Foundation fund. The primary use of this money, however, is to found a history prize to be awarded to a senior on the basis of class standing and the merit of an essay on a prescribed topic. Be- sides being a very prominent lawyer in Ne'v York, the winner of a Phi Beta Kappa key, and a Union graduate, Mr. Smith is the man who won the first Blatchford oratorical prize at this college.

14 THE CC)NCORDIENSIS THE 'CONCORDlENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, Richard E. Taylor, '16 --------------------- 705 N ott Street. ASSISTANT EDITOR, Nathaniel A. Finch, '16 ... _ ... _ ... -~-- ... Alpha D·e~lta Phi House. LITERARY EDIT:OR, Avrom M. Jacobs, '16 _____________ .. _____ North Colonnade . ASSISTANT LITERARY EDITOR, James B. Taylor, '16 -------- 705 N ott Street .. ASSOCIATE EDITORS: D. F. Chapman, '17; W. M. Gilbert, '17; H. R. Knight, '17; F. W. Porter 1 '17; R. W. Schwartz, '17. REPORTERS: F. G. Bascom, '18; E. M. Cameron, Jr., 18; W. G. Carey, '18; H. L. Cook, '18; S. B. Eddy, '18; J. E. Hulshizer, Jr., '18; E. L. Newell, '18; S. W. Talbot, '18; ]. ]. Welch, Jr., '18. SECRETARY, F. W. Porter, '17. STAFF ARTIST,. A. G. Levy, '18. BUSINESS MANAGER, Karl E. Agan, '15 --~--------------- Delta Upsilon House ASSISTANT BUSINESS MANAGER, Howard A. Glenn, '16 __ Kappa Alpha Lodge Entered at the Post Office at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. Publication Office: Sch.enectady Art Press, 206 South Center Street, Schenectady, N. Y. THE ATHLETIC SITUATION. The warm, pleasant days which play such havoc with scholastic work seem to be just what is required to make athletics flourish. Every afternoon the throngs soon con ... . stantly coming to and going from the new gymnasiun1 bear evidence of the popularity of ~thletic sports among our students. That tangible results are forthcoming from the €xertions of our athletes is attested by the ::>utcome of contests with other colleges. Baseball first c'laims our attention, with three games to our credit out of four played. It will be noticed that in our game 'vith Rutgers we overcame our rivals by one point more than did Princeton, which 1f mathematics were applied to athletics ~rould give us the supremacy over the Orange and Black. The R. P. I. game with its 2~1 score gives us something to think about until after June 5. We have a close and strong rival in R. P .I. and are up against a lot of good sportsmen ·when we play them. 1 tis therefore our duty as go·od sportsmen which we pride ourselves on being~ to beat and treat our next-door neighbors as well as we can every ti1ne we get the chance. The team deserve much credit for Satur·day's victory, but the student body as a whole cannot claim llJUCh credit for their support. Regarding the Colgate game, there 1s really nothing to be said. \Ve lost, but not through any real inferiority of our team. May 15 we play Colgate here and at that time hope to recoup our fallen fortunes. The next form of athletics which holds our interest at present is tennis. Despite the absence of victories, we should not lose this interest in the sport for we have a really good tennis team to which we look £or better success in the future. Captain Sol-- er and his team deserve more credit for the game they put up Saturday than if they had vvQn. We all know how one victory leads to another and how hard it is to play the game through when luck seems to be going against us. • 1 j ( t J ( . <! ]

THE CONC'ORDIENSIS 15 'l'he most popular sport at Union if we ate to judge from the number of men out is, however, track. The crowds of amateur athletes which throng to Alexander Field each afternoon is truly amazing. Nor are our hopes of sucess to be based on numbers a:lone. Among those who are out ate many excellent athletes. Training is going on co.nsist- ently and climatic conditions offer no interruption. So far this year our track achieve- ments rest wholly in our imaginations. What the actual results will be may be seen on l\1:ay 8 when Captain Dent leads his picked band to victory or defeat against R. P~ I. on our own athletic field. But enough for athletics· for the present. We nee dnot worry about the past. \V e should not worry about the future. For what it has in store for us let us wait patiently-but not in idleness! COLLEGE LITERARY WORK. }\ review o£ the ancient history of Union College reveals the fact that in the past a far greater proportion of the students' spare tilne was devoted to literary pursuits than is so used at the present. The reason is to be found in the much greater interest now taken in athletics. We do not wish to discourage or disparage so valuable and vital a side of twentieth century college life as its athletics but why, we ask, should they be allowed to destroy interest in literary work? Why not preserve them both? There are plenty of men on the \hill\ today who have literary talent and do not take an active part in athletics. There are others who take part in athletics but to an extent that leaves time for some other activity besides. Why should not these men produce something in the literary line ? \V e have numerous organizations on the \hill\ which offer abundant opportunity for creative literary work. There are the English Club, the Dramatic Club, the Adelphic and Philomathean Literary and Debating Societies, the Garnet and the Concordiensis. The only thing that is wanting, then, for a good live movement, a wave of literature pro- duction, is a man to lead the way by his esample .and precept. We know that there are several such iri our undergraduate body but they seen1. unable to overcon1e the inertia of those who should become their conten1poraries in literature. The value of this kind of work is immeasurable. No one can tell until he tries \\Vhat his potentialities really are. No one can tell what a little practice will develop him into. Real authors are made in no other '\vay than this. There is an enormous detnand for literary productions of all kinds at the present day. A little of this kind of practice might be of more value to a man after he graduates than any regular course he took i u college. At all events it would be a valuable asset to be able to produce a creditable even if not brilliant literary work. We cannot hope for masterpieces at once; we may even m.eet with discouragements at £rst, but these should not be regarded as reasons for giving up the good work once begun.

' ' '. : t 16 THE CONCORDIENSIS. In view of the possibilities literature has in store for those who pursue it w-ith a Kenuine purpose to succeed, as well as the incidental good that would be done the col- lege thereby, it would seem a most advisable thing for the students of Union College to start an active movement of literary production and make Union a leader in this as well as other collegiate activities. JN:TER .. FRATERNITY BASEBALL. The Stars Shine. .: fore, has asked for any trophies or pictures of our crews in the '70's. These would not only be prized, but they would be given a prominent place in the trophy room. Per- haps some Concordiensis reader will be able to assist the Athletic Board in this respect. 'fhe season of inter-fraternity baseball started on Thursday, April 22, with a game between Kappa Alpha and Sigma Phi, which the latter won by the score of 22-4. Tell, '18,. pitched for the Sigs, and Kirkup, '17, and Glenn, '18, for the Kaps. Duane and Bru nett both gave feature exhibitions in handl- · ing the bat, and the work of Brown, '16, as shortstop was noticeable. On the following day Alpha Delta Phi was defeated by Beta Theta Pi, with the score 11-2. Garrison, '16,. pitched for the Alpha Delts. This week ~he following games were played: Delta Phi vs. Psi Upsilon, Monday. Phi Gamma Delta vs. Phi Delta Theta, Tuesday. Delta Upsilon vs. Chi Psi, Wednesday. Pyramid Club vs. Delta Theta Phi, Thurs- day. ROWING REVIVED? \It is not impossible that the under- graduates will again take up rowing as a college sport,\ according to an article in the Union Alumni Monthly for April. The cause of this consideration o£ reinstating rowing here is the new barge canal. The pros- pective sewage disposal plant which will keep all filth from the river, the greater depth of the water which has decreased the current, and the long stretch of water for seven miles between the pumping station and the Vischers Ferry dam will all con- tribute to making the Mohawk an almost perfect place for crew work. The Athletic Board is interested in the possibility of reinstating rowing, and, there- AURORA BOREALIS. 1\!Iaurice R. Brovvn '15 contributes the fol- lowing poem to the columns of the Concor- diensis. ,.rhe conception is at once lofty, ingenius, and truly poetic. We should like more poems from 1\tlr. Brown's pen. Bright, gleatning, flashing beams of North- ern Light That darting upwards in the heavens high . Doth form a fiery arch across the sky, Imparting mystery and awe to night .. \Vhat menace is there in thy flash for man? Art thou reflections of the flaming sword Whose glittering blade restrained the sin- ful horde From Eden, where God had put a ban. Lest they should take the tree of life and eat And live forever, and God perhaps defy, When He condemned all sinful men to die· ' Lest Heaven's plans for men should meet defeat? Is this the secret of the Northern Light? J)oth God still keep His angel guarding there To bar the entrance to an Eden fair? Do men think this who brave the Arctic night? Is ; To ] 1 pre . 1ng he<J tha l\1o I i~ I is An' II a~ Ha~ \Vii Boy Wai But Yo'l l\.n' Has ]es'

THE CONCORDIENSIS 17 Is this the secret of the polar game? Are there men who think the Northern pole The tree that everlasting life may dole To them by giving never-.dying fame? Printed in the Fra for January, 1912. MESSAGE FROM DR. NOTT. This week the faithful servant, sage, and prophet sings in thoughtful strain and pleas- ing verse a message from Union's honored head of old-· Dr. N ott. A message is his, that we should share, for it is ours with l\1oses Viney : I is watchin' in de gloamin' as de shadows longer grow, I is watchin' fo' de message, dat will sum- n1:on me to go; An' I wonders as I watches fo' de comin' ob de night, lias I been a faithful worker, has I made a manly fight? Has I taken life in earnes', has I builded up de soul? \Vill I leabe a lastin' image as de ages on- ward roll? Boys de time may be far distant when yo's watchin' by de shore, W ai tin' fo' de fi!lal journey to de great Foreblermore; But de time when yo' am waitin' fo' de settin' ob de sun, Yo'll be thinkin', as I'm thinkin', how de race ob life was run, A.n' you'll ask you'self de question, when yo' knuckles down to pray, Has I allers done my duty in de battle ob de day? J es' above me am a pictur dat am hangin 7 in de hall Where de cohorts ob de sunset am a camp- in' on de wall. D:ar I se de much--tubbed teacher in his cranky three-wheeled chaise. An' h,e shows to me de glory dat will crown de comin' days, When we'll rob de night oh darkness, wid d.e sunlight from afar, When, in truth, we'll hitch our wagons to de swiftly flyin' star, When we'll reap de frozen tundras, when we'll thaw de polar snow, When we'll warm our numbin' winters wid de ragin' fires below. When we'll calm de seismic impulse, rule the wind an' still de wabe, When de man will be de master, nature's forces be de slabe, When disease an' crime an' famine will at length hab ceased to be An' de man will know his maker an' de world indeed be free. Yes, an' mo', de mind grow greater, till we know de sum ob good, Yes, an' mo', de soul grow equal to de per- fect Brudderhood. I is sittin' in de gloamin' as de shadows longer grow, I is waitin' fo' de message dat will summon me to go; It am yor' s to fix de keystone in de apex ob de arch An' de Future in his splendor, he will soun' de Forward march. 0, young man, wake up an' listen! Dovvn yo' hear de reveille Dat am callin' yo' to action wid de dawn- in' ob de day, \Vhen de burdened branch of Ages bendin' in a curve sublime, Drops its fruit among de blossoms ob de childhood days of Time. \ MOSES VINEY.

. I I I I . I . I I , I 18 THE CONCORDIENSIS THE WARRIOR UNJUSTIFIED. Would that the battling myriads in troubled Europe felt about war as our negro friend does! The wholeson1e message in the following would spread a peace divine o'er the countries now engaged in bloody work. Young man, is yo' true to yo'r conscience ; Young man, is yo' squar wif you'se'f, When yo' takes down yo' saber from up on de wall, Yo' rifle from oher de she'f? Is yo' shore yo' is actin' accordin' De rules ob de Infinite will When yo' rises in wra£ wif yo' hrudder Obeyin' de impulse to kill? I tells yo' young man, an' yo' knows it, It's murder yo's got in yo'r soul. Yo's a liar an' sneak to conceal it Wif tinsel an' glory an' gol'. Yo's to quick to defen' dat false honor, 1\'oo blinded wif glory an' gain; Too ready to trample de Book under foot An' follow de footsteps of Cain! MOSES VINEY. WESLEY AN AND AMHERST RESIGN Following closely upon Willian1s' resigna- tion fro1n theN. E. I. B. B. L. Wesleyan in- formed each member of the League last Saturday of her withdrawal. Two days later Amherst, the newly elected member, also tendered her resignation on the grounds that she had joined the League to play \V esleyan and Williams, which teams were no longer entered. That the length of the Colgate trip proves as prohibitive to W es- leyan as to Williams is given as the reason for the withdrawal of the Red and Black. Cornell is to have the largest college armory in the world. A $3,256,000 building is now under construction. ON YOUR WAY. THE C:ONVENTIONAL BLACK (AND WHITE). (By Our Own Staff Poet.) VVhen Adam and Eve were fain to partake Of their prandial joys en plein air rrhe original garcon it seems was a snake But is wasn't a dress affair. And yet they enjoyed the entree no less Than if it were served on plate i\nd they finished the apple with great ad- dress In an intimate tete-a-tete. And whenever a starched shirt encumbers 1ny waist And I slick down my troublesome hair I think how n1uch better a dinner does taste When it isn't a dress affair. OURS IS A CONSTRUCTIVE POLICY. The I-Ionorary Chancellorship, to be fill- ed this year by Henry Cabot Lodge, should bring with it not only greatness of character and attainment but personal popularity and a wide appeal to the public. For our opposi- tion candidate we nominate Charles Chap- lin of Chicago and the W·est. Once more we commend \Mosey Viney.\ The negro dialect, we are told on competent authority, contains no such word as \am\ when used vvith a subject in the second or third person singular. The Nubian bard would say \is\ or \are but never \am.\ Except for this failing we like Moses. We shall inform the public in next week's colun1n who we thing is writing the series. DEAR ME, WE NEVER KNEW HE WROTE ANY. ''Your religion, your books, the very house in which you live would have about as much meaning for you as Emerson's es- says to the African bushman.\ \Education in last week's Concordy. WF c inst slip: war ' mea pos~ cres . SleD A for indE dre~ dun yea1 D er, 'fue Stei lect . eng1 \] the A Rid tern facu disc u umr Mar For \1 1nus the this it 111 ent .

THE CONCORDIENSIS 19 WHAT THE WELL-DRESSED MAN WI.LL WEAR. (The accent on the \will.'') Create a demand and then supply it. For instance, last winter a certain variety of slipper struck the popular fancy. It vvas wann and fleece.-lined and negligee. Im- mediately everybody in college must needs possess a pair .of such slippers. On the crest of the wave promotors rode to tran- sient financial- glory. At present the sartorial craze seem to be for that article of apparel which bears the indelicate name of \sweat-shirt.\ To be well dressed one must wear a sweat-shirt. Cor- duroy trousers and jerseys, in vogue last year, are now a trifle pas see. Next! Dr. John Douglas Adam, author, preach- er, colege professor, spoke in chapel last 'fuesday evening. Dr. Charles Proteus Steinmetz, wizard, engineer, classicist, ~ s lecturing every Tuesday afternoon in the engineering building. TO THE PROOF-ROOM \Knowledge\ is spelled with. the d after the first e. OUR NATURAL ENEMIES. An informal soiree was held by President Richmond and Dr. Barnes last Monday af- ternoon in Washburn Hall. Only the faculty was invited. Timely topics were discussed. Under this department in last week's col- umn our first n~istake was made. Field Marshal 'rilly's name appeared as Tilley. For this we apologize. \The Harbor,\ by Ernest Poole (there 1nust be a joke there somewhere) is one of the most widely discussed and reviewed of this year's crop of novels. One excerpt fron~ it may be especially pertinent or impertin- ent. The author tells of his college days. Speaking of an enthusiastic professor of :B\'rench he says: \His subject was French literature, but from this at a moment's notice he would dart off into every phase of French life. There was nothing in life, according to him, that was not a part of 1i terature. In college he was considered quite mad. \I met him not long ago in New York. We were both hanging on straps in the subway and we had but a moment before he got off. \'I have read you,' he said, 'in the maga- zines. And from what you write I think you can tell me. What was the trouble with me at college?' I looked into his black twinkling eyes .. \'Great Scott'!' I said suddenly. 'You were alive!' \ How many lessons have you got to do to- night? Three ? So've I. All right, let's go down to Proctor's. HAFIZ. COLUMBIA FOOTBALL BAN LIFTED. Terminating its absence since 1905, foot- ball at Columbia is to be re-established as an intercollegiate sport this fall for a trial period of five years. The most important of the restrictions governing its return puts a ban against contests with Cornell, Har- vard, Pennsylvania, Princeton and Yale. All gan1es are to be played on college grounds on Saturdays or on holidays. 'rhe Columbia Monthly, a literary maga- zine, has re-appeared after a long absence. An argument in favor of confusion in col- lege V\rork: Turmoil (term oil) makes the term slip by easier.-Elsie.

20 THE CONCORDIENSIS. EXCHANGES. An unkn.own friend has made Hamilton a gift of a $25,000 athletic field. Syracuse College of Forestry ~s to be rep- resented at the Panama Exposition at San Francisco. The students of Trinity College have start- ed a campaign to raise $700 to buy and equip an ambulance for service on the European b a ttlefi el ds. MASS. WANTS STATE UNIVERSITY. The Massachusetts State Legislature has authorized the Board of Education to inves- tigate the advisabilty of founding a State University. Harvard considers this an un- necessary extravagance and advises the es- tablishment of· state scholarships instead. The British Red Cross Society recently sent a note of thanks to Yale University for contributing three motor ambulances to this organization. Of the ££teen students at Kansas Univer- sity recently elected to Phi Beta Kappa, two were n1en and thirteen were women.- Votes for women! WISCONSIN UNIVERSITY STRICTLY DRY. Before a stqde?t may purchase liquor at the University' of Wisconsin he n1ust sign a statement in the presence of witnesses that he is twenty-one years old. This bars fresh- men. from \rushing the growler.\-. Ex. Good as far as it goes. A penalty of one week's suspension w~s fixed recently for all students of the Uni- versity of Kansas found gambling. A step in the right direction. There is considerable agitation at Har- vard (among the members of the faculty) for an increase in the tuition fee from $150.00 to $200.00. The increase is expected to be able to remove the annual defi.ci t, which last year was $50,000. NO OBJECTIONS YET OFFERED. Tufts students are now required to take a course in the n1odern dances. This is of- fered in place of the weird gyrations and antics which comprise calisthenics. COLLEGE BASEBALL 56 YEARS OLD Amherst and Williams claim the distinc- tion of originating intercollegiate baseball when they met on the diamond on July 1, 1859. The game, considered very exciting at the time, resulted in a victory for Am- herst by the n1arvelous score of 73 to 32. A VALUABLE COLLEGE COURSE. $1,071,111 is the amount that Bachelor Degrees have cost the class of 1915 at Yale. In the freshman year the most extravagant student managed to spend $4,500 while the poorest student, with equally good manage- ment turned in another direction, managed to get through on $200.. The average cost per student in the sophomore year was $1,- 076. FOR THE EXCUSE COMMITTEE. Folks good at excuses are seldom good for anything else. And so you can size 'em up. POST GRADUATE READING. Supplen~entary to any college course, Help Wanted Column. After Alpha Delt--Beta Thet baseball game: Lee: \What was the score last night?'' Ken: \Seven beers.-Oh, you mean of the game.''

g e. e- or all ?'' ! I f· If yo.u 'Want anything from ~QUINN'S Schenectady's GretJ:te.st .Drug Store Just Telephone 1285 Anytime Hasty Messengers Deliver all Purchases Steefel Bros. ALBANY, N. Y. For Our Mutual Benefit This store is not merely a commercial venture. It is an institution that has become inseparably associated with the highest business standards of this locality. Appreciating our responsibilities to you, we have exerted every effort, guided by our best judgement, to provide only such mer- chandise as we are confident will give the satisfaction that makes and keeps real friends. So we have no hesitation in recom· ·mending such superior merchandise as- Steefel Quality Clothes Johnston and Murphy Shoes Stetson Hats Manhattan Shirts Spriag Display of WaU Paper is now ready at the .:sun 5 & lOc Wall Paper Store Everything in Wall Paper Nothinr Over lOe Ove:r Wool worth's. 'Phone 4454- J. ·411 STATE STREET. Schenectady .81 E. Main St., Amsterdam 129-131 Glen St., Glens Falls CLEANLINESS l-ends you an additional charm. It is always an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a lu~ury. We clean everything that needs cleaning--all high-grade work guaranteed at ve.ry reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. 'Phone 1909-J 440 State St. Smart Snug Fit Oxfords Ma.de~ on tne new Ens-tlsh .!Style last, with snug fit heel, and pe-r- fect fl. tUng. Nobby styles. all sizes and widths. No extra. charge for our spec.ial ft tting service. $4 to $8 PATTON & HALL Z«5 State Street, Seheneetad7.

More College News IN TH·E Read It Every Day GAZETTE . ,, CLOTHES -SHoP fo~ Me:M. 340 WASHINGTON S'T,RECT. BosTON Suits $25 and Up Flannels $5 and Up HENRY WANDLESS Old Gym. Dorm. The Gem City Novelty Co. 6237 Bittner St., Dayton, Ohio. High Grade Laundry get the KILLIP Quality Laundry 719 State Street Phone 759 Schenectady, N.Y. N. K. McNEILL NtEWS ROO'l\1: Cigars and Tobacco, Ice Cream, Candies and Groceries. College Idols. 108 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N.Y. There is no Music Like Giocia's Orchestra 302 Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Y . Telephone. FAR·EW£LL GREETINGS TO THE SENIORS: Memory at best cannot reveal in future years, you as you are to-day .. What say! What power then to portray? A duty you owe your friend-to have a Com- mencement Portrait made. This is your call: (Class rate /rom $4.50 up) The Studio of MABELLE PRIMMER 241 STATE STREET Over Patton & Hall Schenectady's Leading Flower Shop Julius 1fgrr ORCHIDS, ROSES AND VIOLETS 735 State Street ED, THE THE BARBER SHOP FOR Cor. State and Centre Sts., Over Douglass New Shoe Store BARBER UNION MEN Absolutely Sanitary. First Class Service. Ask the Man Who~s been Here. The New Hygienic Lunch and Restaurant Most Sanitary Lunch Room in Schenectady Specialty-R-easonable Prices, Comfortable ~ . ' I ( 1 t - 1 ( c;; ... ( ~ ' -

Bellinger Paint Co. ~~ Walk-Over sl.oes will take - ~ ., - you anywhere and baclc. PAINTS. · OILS LET Y·OUR NEXT PAIR BE Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishe& 212 So. Centre St. Walk-Overs. 407 State Street, Schenectady A. R. Zl .ta· 's Orchestra furnished music at Union College 1905 '06, ·•q7, '08, 'og, 'IO, 'I I, '12 'I 3 & '14 Best Dance Music in the World g~~·tt~~e~~~r!~~e~ 48 ~~e Better for Concert Office and Res., 167 Hamilton St., Albany TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit you,r trade. EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL JAMES F. BURNS Electrical Supplies. Study Lamps, Portables, Etc. 442 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. \UNION NATIONAL BANK'' 334 State Street Solicits Accounts of Students R. WIRTH Periodicals, Confectionery, Cigars, Cigar- ettes. All latest Desserts served at his fountain. . Catering to College and High School func- tions a specialty. Music furnished if desired. 133 NOTT TERRACE Bell •Phone 1356-M. Suits Made to Order from $1'8 to $35. A. GARUCKY Custom Tailor for Ladies' and Gentlemen Sanitary Cleaning, Pressing, Altering and Re- pairing of Ladies' and Gents' Garments. 870 Eastern Ave., Bet. Wendell & Morris Aves. Cigars Ice Cream Soda St Regis Pharmacy, 600 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Prescrrp,tions Accurately Compounded T0ilet Articles HOME MADE CANDIES N.H. Weaver CIGARS CIGARETTES 130 NOTT TERRACE N.M.READ PUBLIC STENOGRA,PHER Room 7 4 Parker Building. Special Rates to Students Telephone 620-W LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Evelei·gh OPTOMETRIST 426 State Street Eyes Tested and Ghssee Fitted THE ROLLINSON STUDIO Q·uality Photography uw atch the Show Case\ RINDFLEISCH'S Artistic Parisian Dye Works 116 Jay Street. -----------------------~------------------~---------------------'

I I I I , . I I I I I I i . Men of Fashion Smoke ''Bull'' Durham A'fter a big night at the opera, men who subscribe :to boxes for the season-masters of the fine art of enjoyment-relish fresh, delicious cigarettes of \Bull\\~ :Durham tobacco while waiting for their limousines. Theirs are the strong, active hands of self-achieve- ment-capable of controlling the destinies of an industry, ol' of \rolling their own, \Bull'' Durham cigarettes with equal success. GE·NUIN£ .. BULL DURHAM I SMOKING TOBACCO Cigarettes rolled with this pure, mild, sun-mellow- ed tobacco are supremely gratifying to the trained smoke taste-their freshness, Ask- lor FREE smoothness and distinctive, ':ui~za:;;~·i:\.e;:~: uinque fragrance, delightful be- yond comparison. That is why connoisseurs throughout the: world prefer to \roll their own\ cigarettes with ''Bull\ Durham. FREE An l~lustrated Bo·o·klet, showing correct · way to ••Roll Your ~~~\i Own\ Cigarettes~ and a package of cigarette papers, will both be mailed, [Tee, to any address in U. S. on request. Address .. B11ll\ Durham, Durham. N .. C.. Room 1400. THE AMERICAN TOB.ACCO CO. ~ \' ... ~~ :.«·- ~·~'~·\' ~.~: .. . • ' . •' .r. • . t ' • ; ~' 1 I ... I ~ ' \ • • • : ' • 4 ' • - E • 1:

OF COU·RSE there is always a call for Dollars. It's true however that some of these calls are most necessary. Save for the necessa.ry ones In the The Sch·enectady S·avings Bank COR. STATE AND CLINTON The Edison Baseball American Plan AU Outside Rooms Rates $2.50 to $4.00 by Clarke and Frederick T. Dawson $1.00' Net Special Meal Ticket, 8 meals for $5 The Gleason Book ·Co. 104 Jay Street Gleason Buildiag Ed win Clute, Prop. Schenectady, N.Y. \On your way to the post office\ The PURE FOOD. Store ~\THE MOHICAN MARKEll 1 The Big Store Around the Corner J 161 JAY STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. · Clothes Economy leads to THE .. OUTLET The PURE FOOD Store 140 JAY STREET, Opposite Van Curler A full line of uncalled for Tailor Made Suits in All Styles at Half Price Wally Girling representing WILLlAM KIRKPATRICK Exclusive Foot Wear -agent for- The J & M Shoe Sweaters and Banners R. E. REEVES handles our line in Union 132-134 Fulton Street, New York Arthur Mfg Co. Lowville, N.Y.

The Schenectady Clothing Co. Clothing for College Men Stein-Bloch and Hickey-Freeman Suits and Overcoats cut to your measure $20 upward Full · Dress Acceessories Arrow Collars Oakes' Sweaters The newest in hats at all times The Schenectady Clothing Co. 3'13·315 State Street Telephone 91-W The OAK Barber Shop 426 STATE STREET. M. F. ALBE, Prop. . CHARLES DERWIG FINE CUSTOM TAILORING CLEANING AND PRESSING. 18 Barrett Street 'Phone 354-W. Between Union and Liberty Streets. ENDWELL Shoes Our Goodyear Welt Shoes fit perfectly and are very stylish in appearance; besides they wear like iron. What more could you ask? Endicott, Johnson & Co. JUST WRIGHT SHOES For Particular Men- $4.50 and up Real Value and Style are assured by the Name Geissler & Ryan 173 Jay Street P. J. KENNEY CUSTOM TAILOR Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing College Clothing a Specialty Cor. Jay & Liberty St. Schenectady, N. Y. Last year more MURADS were sinoked than any other 15cTurkish eigarette in the wor.ld. 15c ~ A!akersojthe11iok· est Grade Turkish and Eo·'ll p tian Cioaret tes in the World. 206 So. Centre Street Near State I ] Rep res~ H.J. Snapp: . }( 9 Pr The] A Rep Hall Teleph Special 43f Telep] 423 u ( 301 an 154 J

Stoll's Ho/brauhaus 162-64-66 Jay Street, Schenectady, No Y. I Will Serve Real German Meals at All Hours at Moderate Prices. MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT EVENINGS. Nicely Furnished Rooms by Day or Week. • Telephone 1938. MAX NOWA, Prop. A unique German place, Catering to private parties in and out of the house. Mandeville, '17 Representative on the Hill. H. J. Schwartz Tailoring Co. Snappiest Made-to-Measure Clothing at . less than \Ready-Made\ Prices. Dress Suits from ·$25 up. 9 Proctor's Arcade, W edgeway Building. The Liberty Bell Adjustable Lamp A LAMP FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Representative on the Hill, Girling, '17. Hallbauer-Hardman Mfg. Co. 957 State Street. Telephone 1909-W Electric City Barber Shop EDWIN POSSON, Prop. Special Attention Given to Face and Scalp. 436 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone Connections A .. STOODLEY People's Baker 423 Union St. Schenectady, N. Y. C. A. Whelan & Co. Cigars and Tobacco 301 and 443 State St. Schenectady Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. Phone 4489. WHEN IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS The Capitol District's Greatest Trunk and Leather Goods Store Buy baggaaze with the 5 year guarantee ,.\.W.!\'1-,e 1.77 Jay Street --~- 110 No. Pearl St. Schenectady, N.Y. ~ Albany, N. Y. REPAIRING SPALDING'S for nearly forty years-have been the ones to think out, and put on the market, things really new in sport. Are you posted on just what's new this year1 A G S ldl • & B 126·128 Na11au Street • · • pa ng lOS. 520 Sth AYe., New York Send for Catalogue Schenectady's Leading Restaurant GLENN'S 422 State Street MY STOCK OF Fall Hats and Haberdashery is now complete.. An inspection is solicited. JOSEPH NUSBAUM, 336 State Street, Gazette Building 20th Century Lunch CHOCOLATE PIE WITH WHIPPED CREAM, OUR SPECIALTY 154 Jay Street, ''On your way to the Post Office\

• SUITS FOR COLLEGE MEN : Made by Hart, Schaffner & Marx b : Double Breasted Models, Single Breasted Straight Front Stylea, and the newest ideas in soft roll, two and three button coats are all here-all made for us by those wonderful Hart, Schaffner & Marx tailors. . College men like these clothes better than any other clothes made and the men of Union are sllowing us that they do. We are glad to show them to you any day that you can give us time. 240-244 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY Schenectady ~ Art Press

VOL. 38 lfD!lJ IB 1L.l5 · · Coulter Memorial. Union in History. Recent Publications by the F acuity Board. APRIL 8th, 1915 NO. 20 i . I i ' t I I ; I I ! I i i I I ' i ' l ~ i ' 1! i . ! . I ' ' I :1 I ' I . I I ' II I I I I I . ' I I 0 i I I , i I.

UNION UNIVERSI CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. Da, LL. D .. Chancellor UNION Ct1LLEGE 'Tbe college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses : 1. Cen:r11es leadmg te the degree ot A.e B. C~.ASSICA~ CouRs~ A.-Greek is required for ad- mi :ssion to this course. French and German are in- daded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAl, CouRSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates , fol' the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. 2,. (;lour•e leading to the degree of Ph. B. LATIN -SciENTU'IC CouRSE- This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading to the degree of B. S,. Scr~NTIFIC CouRsE- This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leading to the degree of D. E. G!tNERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE- This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, ce>mprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- tn.ental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and tn<>dern languages. SANITARY ENGINE:E:RING CouRsE-This differs from tlte general engineering course in substituting special \IIVork in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. • ;;A· •• EL'£C'rRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course is i:ntended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 6. Courses leading to graduate degrees. CouRSE LEADING TO DEG:ttEE ot M. C. E.-This C()Urse of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925-W CouRsE L~ADING To D:ECRU o:e M. S. E. E.--This course of one year of graduate ·study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work, CouRSE LEADING ro mtGR!t~ o:r Pa. D.- This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. c. BARNSS, s~cretary, · Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to: W ILI.IS G. TucKER, M. D ... Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. PARKER, J, NEW'l'ON Fntao, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholty devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses : Matriculation fee, $Io; tuition fee, $no. For catalogue or other information, address: ]OHN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. ALFRED B. HuESTll:D, Secretary, .,Everything for the College Man except Exsm•\ GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS. BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate Middle Section. So. College Phone 1472-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate

by of its is fee, TRADE MARK lil The Guarantee of Excellence on Goods Electrical LA TEST STYLES---ME'N'S French, Shriner l' & Urner Shoes ,, $6.00 $8.50 ,, to Known wherever Good Shoea are worn. All styles and leathers LINDSAY BROS. CO. COR. STATE AND WAIL STS. The Cain's Leadin~ exponenta of Modern Dancing in Schenectady and Vicin- ity. New Pupi]s received every Mon- day, Wednesday & Saturday, 3 to 5 and 7:30 to 9p. m. Pri- vate Lessons b y appointment. Assembly on Monday at 9, at ARCADE HALL Res. Phone 1920 Hall Phone 2710-W Fellows come down and get acquainted with General Electric NICKLAS r~9ia: 3 ~:;;:; CompanY EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER Largest Electrical Manufacturer in the world 3759 E. & W. Shirts and Collars, F ownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk Hats, Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men. I .,

See the New Spring Styles at Babbitt's See the splendid display of Babbitt Clothes as made by Rogers-Peet See the wonderful ''Frankel Fifteens'' the finest clothes tailored for $15.00 in America. We are sole agents in this tri·city tet·ritory for these two makes BABBITT & CO. Albany's Greatest Clothiers 451-453 BROADWAY e a.c:. P. Co. II THE PAST AND PRESENT Keep abreast with the times. We are not ' living in the stage~coach decade, at which time . the mentioning of flying machines would have been taken as an idle jest. In the present cen- tury you wouldn't think of traveling as o11e did in by-gone days. Neither would you ha v-- ing your shoes repaired by the old style hand method way, if you knew the superiority in our up-to-date machine way of repairing. Higgins' ( Drawin& Inlra I Eternal Writin& Ink En•roaain~ Ink I Taurine Mucila&e \') Photo Mounter Paate I Drawin~ Board Paate Liquid Paate l Office Paate V eatetable Glue1 etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGIN.S &c CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London BALL'S QUICK SHOE REPAIRING WORKS Opposit~ Jay Street 271 Ninth St. 438 State Street Free Order Service Telephone 3456 Brooklyn, N. Y. The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM CANDIES PARTY AND DINNER FAVORS 31 Steuben Street,

I ' • REX BEACH Famous Author, aaya: ''llaave smoked Tuxedo in aa6· Arctic Alaaka, at Panama and everywhere - woulJ not smoke another kind. \ ~~tr~~ Tuxedo-a Tobacco For Wise Smokers Rex Beach has lived his books. In person- - ality he is much like his own heroes-a red- blooded, clean -cut, strong young fellow, fond of the healthy ways of outdoor life. His tobacco is Tuxedo-a mild yet rich tobacco that is healthful, wholesome, refreshing and beneficial in every way. You get some Tuxedo today and you'll find your experience with it tallies with Rex Beach's. The Per/ecf Tobacco /or Pipe ani Ogarelte Never was a smoke as good as Tuxedo-the pipe and cigarette tobacco without a sting, and with the most pleasant aroma. It's friendly to every man's taste because it's produced by the famous original \Tuxedo Process., that first put the sensitive tongue folks on speaking terms with a pipe. No imitation can be as good as Tuxedo-because no imitator can use use the famous, exclusive, original Tuxedo \process.\ YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE Co~:Yenient, glassine -wrapped, Sc Famous green tin, with gold } 0 moaature·proof pouch. • • • letterinr, curved to fit pocket C In Tin Humidors 40c and 80c In Gla3s Humidor3 SOc and 90c THE AMERICAN TO:SACCO COMPANY • • ••• .. ' '\ . : I , I : l

£STABUSHED 1818 ICW YORA. Our Representative, Mr. Gorman, . w~ll be at the Edison Hotel on SATURDAY, APRlL 3rd, 1915 with samples of ready made garments, Furnishings, Hats and Shoes Boston Branch 149 Tremont Street JV •wport Branch 220 Bellevue Avenue We Solicit Your Patr~nage. You Need· Our Q.uarantee. Cluett & Sons. One Price Piano House. EVERY THING MUSICAL. To Cure C:old til BUYA GAS HEATER .MOHAWKGASCO. Phone 2500 508 State Street, Schenectady .. Cotrell and Leonard ALBANY, N. Y. Maker• of Caps, Gowns and Hoods Pictures and Picture Framing, Art Sup- plies and Gold Gilding. Decorating and Paper Hanging. House and Sign Painting. S. E. Stanes' Art &tnrt To the American Colleges and Univenitie• frODl' No. 7 New York Central Colonnade the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracta a apecialty ~ New York Telephone Schenectady, N. Y. UNION . STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . ' ,, 11 ( tJ ·, ... 1 r w t ,.,,1~ 'IJltPfl.\iY Hosiery, Underwear, Sweaters and KNIT GOODS FOR MEN The Schenectady Trust Co. UNITED KNITWEAR coMPANY 318-320 State Street 467 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y.

p- Y. Y. Clothing F . h. urnts· tngs Hats· We're ready whenever you our. Why not come to-day? The newest and best in each departm.en t. ~ Wells & Coverly TROY ''If It's Made of Rubber We Have It'' m Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goods Auto Tires m .Alling Rubber Co. 229 State Street 26 .. Storea CANDIES Huyler's, Park & Tilford's, Pirika, No- bility. FRESH STOCK ALWAYS PHOTO DEPARTMENT Complete in Every Respect. EVERYTHING IN GOOD DRUGS 335 STATE ST. 714 HAMILTON KEELER'S ----EUROPEAN---- HOTEL and Cab.aret at 9 P. M. Broadway and Maiden Lane :Albany, N~ Y GEN1'LEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty.:five Private Dining Rooms Wm. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway FURNITURE NEARLY 30 YEARS of honest dealings in Schenectady has placed us at the top notch of retailers. When you read a COFFIN BROS. ad you know it is true. We aim at all times to carry the most complete line of Kitchen Wares, Wooden Wares, toys, games, fancy goods and brassware. We invite you to call. · COFFIN BROS. 303-305 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. Fine Imported and Domestic Woolens Telephone 2323- J GEORGE A. MANNY CUS'TOM TAILOR 170 Jay Street Schenectady, N. Y. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery Lyon's 13 McCLELLAN Cor. 'Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street EASTERN Ave. \Look for the Cow's Head.\

Ready to Wear and Custom Made STYLISH CLOTHE:S Comparison is the ·. Lever That Turns Trade Our Way FOR YOUNG MEN 'This is the busiest store in Schenectady, through inviting Comparison with merchandise you see elsewhere, where quality, fabric, superiority ot workmanship and newness of design are important features and you will prove by your own comparison, consistant alliance in all our offerings and dealings. Just step ·in before you buy else- where. The convenience of an open account to all College Student is yours for the asking. 10 Per Cent reduction on all purchases of $10 or over if this ad is presented at the time ~of purchase. 503 ·• 507 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Saul's G. Wm. Slaght, Mgr. N. Y. 'Phone 360-W I AM YOUR NEAREST SHOEMAKER N.Y. Phone 1270-W All Work Called for and Delivered Free The Union Electric Quick Shoe Repair Shop S. SOBELL, Manager. The only machine in the city, operating its own channel while sewing on the sole. Turns the shoe out like new. A few popular items: Men's soles, sewed ________ 75c Ladies' soles, nailed ________ 40c Ladies' soles, sewed _______ 60c Men's Heels ----------------25c Men's soles, nailed ____ 50 to 60c Ladies' Heels ________________ 20c Our prices are as reasonable as can be asked. Best leather used and all work guaranteed. 603 LIBERTY STREET, (Near Lafayette) SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Full RUBBER SOLES __________ -------- ------ ------------ __ $1.50, $1.75 \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 ~WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 1908 1914 CARL DANNER, Beta Theta Pi NEAR BARNEY'S Collelle Repre•entative 1915 '•RADNOR'' THE NEW ARROW t·OLLAR 2 for 25 Cents. Let's Meet at \Joe's\ New Dining Room Students' Tuck Shop A BREAKFAST BETWEEN CLASS A FEED AT NIGHT. ORDERS DELIVERED One Minute from Payne Gate. Back of St. John's Church. 'Phone 298-W. 72! Eastern Ave. ·'

