9he CONCORDIENSIS Union Defeats R. P. I. 21--20 Junior Week Plans VOLUME 39 JANlTARY IJ, 1916 NO. I I PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY . \ :: ...... = :::J

UNION UNIVERSI1Y CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOI'JD, D. D., LL.D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses : l. Oott:rae.s leading to the degree of A. B. CLAssiCAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B-This course may be pur sued by candidates who satisfy the requirements for admission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on entrance and required for two years. In othtr n>spects Course B. is identical with Course A. 2. Coorae leading to the degree of Ph. B. LATIN-SCIENTIFIC CouRSE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3.. Courae leading to the degree of B. s. Sci~NTIFIC CouRs~t- This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leading to the degree of B. E. GENF;RAL ENGINEERING CouRsE-This course offers th.e foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and m·odern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRs£- This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELEC'l'RICAL ENGINEERING CouRsE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. I. Oour•e• lead:lng to graduate degreea. CouRSE LEADING To DEG!lEE oF M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE LEADING To DEGREE or l\1. S. in E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRs~ LEADING To DEGREE or Pu. D.- This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sio.n the degree of l\1 S. in E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNes, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE, Founded 1838-A cotnplete reorganization has been effected during the past year. Largely increased Hospital facilities have been assured with teaching services both in h!Iedicine and Surgery, students having im- mediate res.pon.gibility under supervision. The laboratory staff has been increased and the courses re-arranged to conform to improved methods. With these changes, it is believed that the Albany Medical College is prepared to furnish instruction which will meet the highest demands of modern medical education. ; Admission Requirements: Each candidate for ad- ' mission must present his Medical Student's Certi- : ficate from the Examinations Division of the Board of Regents of the State of New York and must furnish evidence of the satisfactory completion of one year's study, in a recognized college or scien- tific school, of physic-s, chemistry, biology and French or Gern1an. Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., has arranged for such a course. Tuition: The charge for tuition is $160.00 a year and $5.00 for matriculation. There are no extra i fees except for rental of microscopes and labor- ! ; a tory breakage. . The academic year begins Sept. 27, 1915. All m- 1 quiries and other communication'S should be ad- ' dressed to I THOMAS ORDWAY, M.D., Dean. I Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the st~te <\apitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to t!s 1~ se. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. t! three years ; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $to; tuition fee, $no. For catalogue or other information, address: JOHN C. WATSON, Secretary, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded t·ourse of instruction comprising two terms of aeven tnonths each. Fees, $go.oo per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: ALFRgD B. H uttsTttD, Secretary, 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. SUITS PRESSED 25o. DRY CLEANING AND PRESSING. Suits Called for and Delivered. 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate CH.AS COOPER, No. 1 Landon Terrace Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate - - vc G~ Sec 1 Sa~ --h .. i . '\ l !' •.va ! [ ye; l· 11 I I I j.· H<: t.' ' I. bn l j. ' ) ' rec f ' fin ~ ' f l th( ' ; ha, l :. cat int stt 1 fac pla teCJ gaJ j ba~ Zit far Th ba~ Mt t vvh pr<

The Concordiensis VOL. 39 JANUARY 13, 1916 NO. 11 GARNET VANQUISHES TROJANS IN DESPERATE BATTLE. Scoby Turns Tables in Last Minute of Game. Union defeated R. P. I. in the gymnasium Saturday night in one of the fastest games ~hat the Garnet team has e1rer fought. Tt vvas a repetition of the histor~ c game of two years ago when Union defea.ted Willia1ns 11 to 10. It was a remarkable basket by Hal Scoby in the last minute of play that brought victory to us and kept clean our record of no defeats in the new gym. 'fhe first half was all Union's way. but during the intermission the R. P. I. coach must have said a great many things, for his tean1 came back with a rush that threw a scare into the Union bleachers and kept all the students on edge till the last second. When the game opened there was a nevJ face in the ·union line-up, Franck '16 had re- placed Witbeck as center but otherwise the tean1 '\vas the same as for the last two games. The first point of the game was a foul basket by Woolsey after a personal foul on Zimmer. Soon Joe Haubner made one of his famous long shots and Union took the lead. The next score was made from under the basket by Franck on a long pass f.ro1n Mudge. Then followed a long period of play in vvhich both teams found it impossible to ap- proach their baskets and each resorted to long shots which were ineffective. Wool- sey dropped in another foul point and then made a quick basket on a tip fro mcenter. Mcl\1anus followed with another and Zim- mer ended the half by making a good shot from a difficult angle. This made the score 11 to 5 in Union's favor and everyone thought the game as good as won. The second half opened with a rush, Woolsey and l\ticManus each scored a field basket and Zimmerr shot a foul. The play was fast for a few minutes and then a double foul was called. Zimmer scored but Wool- sey missed his try. Soon after this Union lost one point on a foul because Franck was inside of the line when Zimmer shot it. The last few minutes were fast and furious. W al- sey made two baskets and R. P. I. took the lead. 1'hen Zimmer shot a fowl and Scoby dropped in his wonderful basket. In the next thirty seconds the Union held the ball and R. P. J. had no chance to score. /\bout 200 students accompanied the team fron1 Troy and had their band with them. The score: UNION. F.B. Scoby, :R.F. ------------ 1 Haubner, L.F. ---------- 2 Franck, C. -------------- 2 Zimmer, R.G. ----------- 1 Mudge, L.G. ------------ o 8 F.P. 0 0 0 9 0 9 T.P. 2 4 4 11 0 21

10 THE CONCORDIENSIS R. P. I. F.B. F.P. T.P. McDonald, R.G. ________ 0 0 0 O'Hara, L.G. ----------- o 0 0 Woolsey, C. ---------- ___ 5 4 14 Howard (Capt.), R.F. ____ 0 0 0 McManus, L.F. _________ 3 0 6 8 4 20 Substitutions-Goodell for O'Hara, Skin- ner for Goodell; Robertson for McManus. Time of halves-20 minutes. Referee- Deering of Manhattan. Umpire-Tilden. Timekeeper-Girling. UNION WINS OPENING GAME WITH STATE TEACHERS' COLLEGE. The Albany State College for Teachers came here December eleventh to suffer de- feat at our hands in the opening game of the season, with a score of 33-20. Since the grad- uation of four veterans, Coach Dawson has had some trouble in selecting the aspirants who work the best together, and the team 'vhich faced the State College was almost a new one. Galbraith, who has been trying out for center and was practically assured of the position, was debarred by the faculty for a condition of last year, and he was taken fron1 the 'varsity the day before the game. This opened the ·way for \i\litbeck, who show- ed up well in his position. Fouls character- ized the game from the very start, and Union out-fouled the visitors, offending 17 times to their 15. We n1ade up for it. however, in ~coring 12 field baskets to 4 by the oppon- ents. The playing, of course: was rather slow. Our representatiyes were too much on the defense, getting fouls for holding, and Scoby, after doing yeo·man work, scoring ·1: field baskets, was put out of the game at the fourth personal foul. Witbeck got the tip- off from his man nearly every time, and was very efficient in guarding his man. Captain Zimmer played well on the floor, and got 9 of Union's free throws. Jimmy Mudge play- ed with the same vim that carried hin 1 thrqugh last season, adding 6 points to our tally. Joe Haubner was successful in tnak- ing a difficult field basket. Kirkup, who was sent in Scoby's position, acquitted himself admirably, when he gained six points for Union in about as many minutes. The State College was starred for by Goewey, who got 2 field baskets. Fitzgerald got 12 single pointers out of 15 free tries. Summary: UNION. F.B. Scoby, R.F. ------------- 4 Haubner, L.F. ---------- 1 Witbeck, C. ------------- 0 Zimmer, R.G. ----------- 1 l\1udge, L .. G. ------------ 3 f(irkup, R.F. ------------ 3 F.P. 0 0 0 9 0 0 T.P. 2 2 0 11 6 6 Totals ---------------12 9 33 STATE COLLEGE. F.B. F.P. T.P. S. Fitzgerald_, R.F. ------ 1 Hohans, L.F. ----------- 0 O'Connell, C. ----------- 0 Jones, R.G. ------------- 1 Goewey, L.G. ----------- 2 F. Fitzgerald, L.G. ------- 0 Carr, l,.G. --------------- 0 Totals --------------- 4 12 0 0 0 0 0 0 12 14 0 0 2 4 ·0 0 20 Score at half time: Union, 16; State Col- lege, 15. Fouls: Union, 17; State College, 15. Referee : Tilden. Time of halves : 20 minntes. GARNET PLUCKS SECOND 'TICTORY FROM CLARKSON TECH. After a game full of excitement Union trimn1ed Clarkson Tech, the eighteenth of December, by the score of 22-19. The game was interesting throughout, but during the last part the visitors showed great speed, and after a succession of shots Clarkson Tech was '.vithin two points of our tally. Toward the last it becatne a bitter struggle, for with its tea1 Ma get . JUIT the dur han by· -:tnd Mu and . gut of I of 1 sco: twc Cla get ten: the: of i aft bas sho catl Yo' fro1 V1S1 bas our dur we1 anc tw< ofl fro1 call c las1 .firs seo pla: bat

THE ,CONOORDIENSIS 11 its superior weight and height, the visiting teanrr was indeed a formidable opponent. Maley, the center for the up-state team, kept getting the tip-off from Witbeck, and our jumper was put on the defensive most of the ti1ne. Witbeck was replaced by Y ovits during the last few minutes of play. Moyni- han took Scoby's place, after brilliant work by the latter. Capt. Zimn1er found the ring, -:tnd slipped in 12 shots out of 16 offered. Mudge was the star of the game, while Nialey and Barcley, of the up-state team, distin- guished the1nselves. After about five minutes of play Jimmy scored the :first twin-counter of the evening. Shortly afterwa~rd \Vest scored for the visitors. lJnion then made two pretty baskets from the floor, and Clarkson made one. Our team worked to- gether fairly well, and Clarkson Tech's at- ten1 P.ts to break up the offense resulted in their fouling frequently. .t\t the· beginning of the second half, Union made a basket o:n a free throw. The visitors caged two field baskets. Jimmy Mudge made a spectacular shot from the side, and Joe Haubner dupli- cated it shortly after. About this time Yovits replaced \\Titbeck. Maley's basket from the center of the floor started the visitors' spurt, and they ~registered four field baskets in quick succession. By this ti1ne our boys were heginning to cover up and during the last few minutes of play there were three fouls called on Clarkson Tech and tv1o on Union. Barclay rnade good his two chances for baskets, and Zim got one of his. Two of the visiting players were sent fro111 the game after 4 personal fouls were called. Our team, though in better condition than last week, needs more practice. During the .first half the team-work was lax, and there vvere no attempts to follow up the ball. The second half, however, brought out streaks of playing that looked like seasoned basket- ball. Summarv: .. 'UNION. F.B. Scoby, R.F. ------------- 1 Moynihan, R.F. ----------- 0 I-Iaubner, L.F. ----------- 2 \Vitbeck, C. ------------ 0 Yovits, C. ------·-------- 0 Zimmer, R.G. ----------- 0 l\11 udge, L.G. ------------ 2 F.P. 0 0 0 0 0 12 0 T.P. 2 0 4 0 0 12 4 Totals --------------- 5 12 22 CLARKSON TECH. F.B. F.P. T.P. Barclay, R.F. ----------- 2 3 7 Reynolds, L.F. ---------- 1 0 2 Morrison, L.F. ---------- 0 0 0 Maley, C. --------------- 2 0 4 Spears, R.G. ------------ 2 0 4 \Vest, L~.G. -------------- 1 o 2 'reahan, L. G. ____________ 0 0 0 Totals --------------- 8 3 19 S~ore at half time : Union, 13 ; Clarkson Tech, 5. Fouls called: Union, 6 ; Clarkson · Tech, 16. Referee: Tilden. Time of halves: 20 rninutes. UNION DEBATERS DEFEAT WILLIAMS. First Forensic Battle Between the Two In- stitutions Results in Unanimous De- cision for the Garnet. In the inter-collegiate debate with Wil- liatns, 'Thursday evening, December 16, in the college chapel, Union won on the affirma- tive side of the question: \Resolved That the sale, manufacture and in1.portation of al- coholic liquors in the 1J nited States be pro- hibited by 1J. S. Constitutional amendment.\ Professor Mci{ean presided over one of the largest audiences in years which has attend- ed college debates. The juqges were Judge H. 0. Borst of Amsterdam, N. Y., Frank i-falbot, Esq., Gloversville, N. Y., and Mr. Charles Gibson, Albany, N. Y. Judge Borst

l2 THE CONCORDIENSlS reported the decision. Union team was cotnposed of C. Foster Bro-vvn '16, Milton Sternfeld '16, Avrom M. Jacobs '16, alternate, Clyde Heatley '18. 'rhon1as Maythan1. '18, Goodrich Schaugffler '] R, Irving Day '16_, and I<:.ingsley Erwin '17, alternate, defended the negative for Wil- liams. Union showed that conditions in the United States demanded prohibition, that previous prohibitory n1easures had failed and, that national prohibition would intro- duce no evils and would adduce positive economic and n1oral benefits. Williams sho\i\red that such a.n amendn1en t was con- trary to the spirit of the constitution, and that its enforcement would be impossible as well as attended by great evil. BroV\rn did 'iVell for his first appearance in col,lege debates. Sternfeld and Jacobs shovv- ed, their ~snal ability and Jacobs' sulnming- up of the debate was deserving of very high crecli t. Neg-otiations are being carried. on with lT obart for a debate at tJnion later in the year. UNION MUSICAL CLUBS INVADE SARATOGA. Skidmore School Center of Attraction. ~rhursday night before the ,Christmas recess the Musical Clubs went to Skidmore School in Saratoga, where they gave an ex- cellent concert, and in return tnet many fine young women. The numbers were well re- ceived but no encores were given, for after the Union concert, about one hundred of Skidmore's best singers occupied the stage. After singing old songs in a new way for an hour and a half, they retired amidst vocifer- ous applause, and the remainder of the even- ing was given over to Terpischore. The girls easily demonstrated that they could switch their feet as well as sing, and, all in all, our n1US1Clans felt well repaid for making the trip. Manager Santee is busy arranging the schedule fo:r future concerts, and many good trips are promised. The first conce1\t wil1 be the twenty-first of this month, and will be given in the auditorium of the Scotia High School. The next concert will occur February third at the Edison Club in this city. This will be the Junior Week concert, and is the first event scheduled fot that sea- son of festivities. 1-\fter the concert the hall will be cleared and dancing will occupy the late hours of the night and probably the \iVee, sma' hours of the morning. It is plan- ned to admit all college men free to the con- cert, tho' individual tickets for others will be fifty cents per other. For the dancing, everyone V\rill be charged fifty cents, accord- ing to the present arrangement. All those who can are urged to come, for there will be good music and good \eats.\ Note-This article is the official correc- tion for the one concerning musical clubs in our last issue. JUNIOR WEEK CELEBRATION. The Junior Week celebration to be held at Union from February 4, 5 and 6, promises to be the most successful in many yc:ars. Many of the frate1\nities will entertain house parties, and many of the houses will give teas and hold infortnal dances during the week. Thursday night will start the festivities with a large ball at the Edison Club. This will be attended by all the house parties be., side many other students, and gives every indication of being a tnost worthy opening. Friday will see many events, chief of which will be a luncheo\1 and skating party at the Mohawk Golf Club, the tea given at Sigma Phi place, and the main event of the entire celebration, the Junior Prom in the evening. This dance will perhaps be the best ever helcl at Union, certainly the equal of any previous effort, and Chairman Downs pron1ises that it will be an event to be remembered for years. Europe's First Orchestra with t I d 0 t: g a t 1] a h V\ 11 v v t1 d n \ h si t1 o~ it n tl at Fl y< 111

THE CON'CORDIENSIS 13 \Europe Himself\ will furnish the music, and this alone will raise the dance above the usual Pron1s. The supper, which will be served during intermission, will he the best efforts of a noted out-of-town caterer, and will equal the 1nusic in its high quality. Beside the pro- grams, over which the committee are keep- ing a pleasant veil of mystery, many innova- tions will be produced during the evening. 'rhe Gy1n will be decorated in a most un- usual style by a famous decorator, and will form a most beautiful setting for the brilliant affair. On Saturday afternoon Chi Psi will enter- tain at tea at the lodge, and in the evening the basketball gan1e with Lehigh will claim attention. Following this game the various houses will hold dances, during which visits will be exchanged by the neighboring frater- nities. On Sunday the usual Junior Week ser- vice will be held and in the afternoon the va~rious house parties will break up, ending the Junior Week of '1 '1. THE JUNIOR PROM. Of course, you will spend four hard earned dol~ars and go to the Junior Pron1 on Feb- ruary the fourth. Why? Because: You have always feared that \A la Carte,\ when you were with her, and here you can both smile and dance to its strains. Or perhaps the \Castle Doggy\ is the peppy fox-trot that you have both want- ed for that new step. In \Come Back Dixie\ we surely have out-dixied Dixie• and though clin1atically. it may not be \A Perfect Day,\ here is truly the \end of a perfect day.\ \Manyana\ has the luring plunk-a-plunk of South Sea nights and where is the n1an to resist \Those Con1e 1-fither Eyes,\ for \It's All Your Fault\ if you destroy the \Illusion\ created by lilting . 111 USlC. VVe think in tern1s of patriotisn1 and surely we best express our feelings in \A1nerica 1 Love You,\ the rollicking love of a free- hed!rted people. And then, your American and you want to relax as that lively \Lazy Lulu,\ ''Underneath the Stars\ or by the \J\1yosotis\ bush. Eats? Yes, there will be enough to feed an arn1y, and dainty enough to please a hum-- ming-bird. Don't hesitate on that score. \Hey 'rhere\-It n1akes you jump and that's the way we start our second half. 'rhen, the space-eating \Georgia Grind,\ but \It's so Tempting\ after the \Sweet Memor~ ies\ of what she said, when you sat on that divan. \The Sweetest Girl in Monterey,\ or may· be she's f~rom, oh, never mind we all know, surely will enjoy \Ragging the Scales,\ even though l\1r. Europe is not from ''Norway'' and has never played for \Queen Louise.:' Then perhaps you'll hear her whisper \\iVhen 1'm ()ut with You \ though everyone n1ay be doing the \Kangaroo Trot.\ \VVhen It's All Over,\ you will drift into \The Last Waltz\ with regret that four con1es so earlv, and that the whole world ., could not enjoy itself the way you have, in the Gytnnasium Alumnorum, on the even- ing and n1orning of February fourth and fifth. There is another reason, but that is a self- ish one. Our pleasure vvill not be complete unless you are with us. The Junior Prom Con1mittee. UNDER-CLASS DEBATE GOES TO SO PHS. Uphoff Captures Individual Prize. The '1~J-'18 debate, which took place on the Tuesday evening preceding vacation, was a n1arked success. The sophomore class \vas represented by Anker, Uphoff, Eddy and l(ing; ,~{hile Brind, Peters, A. D. Greene, and \\T atts spoke for the freshtnen. The judges, Dr. Hoffn1an, Professor Bennett . and Dr. Hale, awarded the decision to the i '' I 'i ' I

' ' . ! . I I 14 THE CONCORDIENSIS affim.ative, 1918. Uphoff was awarded the prize for the best single speech. The 1919 team will compete with the Wil- liams freshmen at Williamstown on J anu- ary 14th. The subj.ect will be the sa1ne as that of the inter-class debate, \Should a System of Military Drill Work be Sub- stituted for Gymnasium in the Freshman year?\ As the boys have been working hard on this subject and have framed many new arguments we may hope for a repetition of the ·union- Williams 'varsity result. NEW NATIONAL ORGANIZATION ON THE HILL. It was announced at the meeting ar the Cosmopolitan Club held last Tuesday, that the local club is an active chapter in the \Corda Fratres Association of Cosn1opoli- tan Clubs.\ This was announced by Presi- dent Vrooman who was one of the dele- gates from the local club to the ninth an- nual convention held at Cambridge, Mass. The local club has been asked to join the national organization for the last three years and had declined because its officers did not consider that it had sufficient strength, but this year the matter was con- sidered and favorably acted on by the mem- hers who decided to send two delegates to the convention at Harvard. The delegates, Mr. \Trooman and l\1r. Monteiro, reported that the club had the unusual honor, of be- ing recommended to active membership by the National Board of Governo~rs, and un- animously voted on favorably by the con- vention; this is unusual, as most clubs are admitted as associate members and later, after a year or more of probation, are ad-- mitted to active membership. The conven- tion was held at Harvard University in Cambridge, Mass., from December 27 to 30; the attendance was made up of representa- tives of 25 nations and among the guests of honor were Samuel W. McCall, gover- nor-elect of Massachusetts; David Walsh, governor of Massachusetts; B. S. I-I urlbut, Dean of Harvard College; A. E. Burton, Dean of Massacuhsetts Institute o£ Tech- nology; Alfred E. Stearns, Principal of Phillips Exeter A.cademy and many other prominent men. JOHN MASEFIELD TO LECTURE. The English Club has arranged to bring John Masefield, the English poet, to Union on the evening of March 3rd. This will be in pursuance of the club's policy to bring such talent as it can find to Schenectady each year. Last season Alfred Noyes deliv- ered a lecture which was greatly enjoyed by those present. Students are urged to attend this lecture, not merely to show their appreciation of a rare opportunity, but also because in so do- ing they will hear one who is doing much to shape current literary thought. A special rate will be made to students. A.t a meeting of the English Club held last Friday, \iV arren Vosburgh read a paper on \Mark Twain,\ which was later informally discussed. Dr. 1\ti arch will read a paper on \I-Ienry James\ at the next meeting. A COMMUNICATION FROM THE LITERARY EDITOR. Editor of The Concordiensis : On account of the lack of response on the part of the students to the conditions set down in the Literary Contest, the manage- tnent feels called upon to announce that un- less there be evidence of further interest im- n1ediately, the prize offers will be with- drawn. It seetns hardly necessary to point out that the lack of enthusiasm shown by the students does not speak well for either their interest in_ literary activities or their appre- ciation of President Richmond's and Man- ager Glenn's prize offers. ~rhis notice is final. AVROM M. JACOBS,

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 15 UNlON RECEIVES SUBSTANTIAL BEQUEST. Work on Butterfield Memorial to Begin in Spring. After considerable litigation, the $101, ... 000. bequeathed to Union College by the Butterfield Estate has been received, and a check for this amount is in the hands oi Treasurer Dewey. The money will be used to erect and com- pletely equip a building for use as a chemical and physical laboratory. This will be erecte- ed in the open field just Northeast o£ the A.lumni. Gymnasium. Preliminary plans have already been~ drawn by George B. Post & Sons, archi- tects, of New York City, and these are no'v undergoing the inspection of the building committee. The new building will follow the at'chi- tectural style established by Architect Ramee of Paris, in designing the South Col- lege and the North ·Colonnade, using the grey stucco with white arches as the prim- ary motif. Details as to size, :furnishings and equip- lnent have not as yet been decided upon by the committee, but it is understood that these are under discussion at present, and that work on the foundations will commence early this spring. Y. M. C. A. ACTIVE IN MANY WAYS!' Second Semester Campaign Under Way. BIBLE STUDY. Classes for Bible study will be organized immediately after examinations. As is cus- tomary they will be run on the fraternity group plan. The classes will be open to the students of the three upper classes. MISSION STUDY. Classes in Mission study will be started at the beginning of the second semester. The courses have not as yet been selected but they will soon be made public. CHURCH SERVICE ON FEB. 6. On the Sunday of the Junior Week fes- tivities the Christian Association will hold a service in the college chapel at eleven in the morning. President Richmond will preach the sern1on. These services have been well attended in previous years, and it is hoped that the crowds having house parties will include this service in their list of activities for the week. BOYS' BIBLE CLASSES. The Association is endeavoring to secure twelve men to be leaders of boys' Bible classes at the local Y. M. C. A. An in- struction class requiring about one and a half hours per week will be held in Silliman -Hall for the training of these leaders. From every point of view this is a work well worth the requisite time and effort of any college tnan. Those desiring to help in this way will please give their names to Steve Story as soon as possible. OLD CLOTHES CAMPAIGN. This . year there will be another old clothes campaign. Last year it was very successful and served as a source of assist- ance to many needy men. Just before Junior \V eek when the houses are being cleaned up, a wagon will come around to collect all of the old clothes that you can spare. Someone needs that old overcoat which you can not wear any 1nore. VESPERS. In the college chapel Sunday afternoon the Rev. ~Ir. Moldenhawer of the Second Presbyterian Church of Albany was the speaker. The text was found in Mark 3 :27. 1-Ie brought out al1 the fine points of over·- corning the powers of evil and especially touched on differences betvveen superficial and essential goodness. T'his talk was found to be very interesting and \vas greatly enjoyed by the students present. ' . !, •'

16 THE C'ONCORDIENSIS THE CON CORD IENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS ·OF UNIO·N COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., aos Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Richard E. Taylor, '16. ASSISTANT EDITOR Nathaniel A. Finch, '16. LITERARY EDITOR Avrom M. Jacobs, '16. ASS'T LIT. EDITOR James B. Taylor, '16 STAFF ARTIST Alwyn G. Levy, '18. ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. M. Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 F. \V. Porter, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Rudolph W. Schwartz, '17. Howard A. Glenn, '16, Business Manager Ernest W. Mandeville, '17, Ass't. Business Manager Subscription: $2.00 per year, payable in advance. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. JUNIOR WEEK. Since the faculty has seen fit to set aside two days to be devoted not to studies but to social activities, there must be something of value in store at Junior Week for those who support this event. Junior Week is not an affair to be participated in merely by the Juniors but rather is a college affair which has been turned over to the Junior class to n'lanage, and it requires the support of the whole college. Our athletic teams, our debating teams and our musical clubs ~ do much to put \Old Union\ before the eyes of the public and to spread her fame throughout the country. Junior Week proves to be just as great an advertisement as any of our athletic teams, debating teams or musical clubs for at this time we act as hosts to many friends and admirers of the college. These guests see a phase of our college life which has a strong influence on them in forming their opinions of the college. For this 1\'eason it is necessary that every student turn out and support Junior vV eek with the same energy that he supports other college activities. The powers that be have seen fit this year to make an important change in one event of Junior Week. In former years the Sopho- more Soiree has occurred on Thursday even- ing, the opening day of Junior Week, and this has brought two of the three large col- lege dances on successive nights. This old arrangement was rather strenuous and the Prom. has always been such a brilliant affair that much of the enjoyment was detracted from the Soiree. The new a['rangement has really made two seasons of festivity instead of one. As a substitute for the Soiree this year, there will be held a musical club con- cert and dance at the Edison Club on Thurs- day evening and then on Friday evening will come the prime event of Junior Week-the Junior Prom. Friday afternoon and Satur- day afternoon will be devoted to fraternity teas and Saturday evening to the basketball game and house dances. The Prom Com- tnittee has gone to great lengths to make this the greatest Prom in Union's history, and several great innovations are promised. An effort is being tnade this year to bring the various house parties closer together, and to have at least one joint pa~rty some tnorning in which all the fraternities will participate, such as a tobogganing or skat- ing party. It has also been suggested that a Junior Week pro gran~ be published similar to the Commencetnent Program. All this \\rill help to bring about a spirit of general good feeling and the guests will feel that

·TH:E CONCORDIENSIS 17 they are n_ot only the guests of the fraterni- ties and the individuals but also the guests of 1T nion College. The faculty has .given you the time, the comn1ittee has n~acl.e all arrang-ements and hope to make this Junior Week the finest ever; so do not let the matter of a few silver pieces keep you from supporting the one big S()cial event of the college year. THE AMERICAN LEGION. 1\.t the present time while the nations of Europe are embroiled in the greatest war of all history, the citizens of the United States are tbinking seriously concerning- our mili- ta,ry strength. It is very true that our army signed to that branch of the . serv1ce for which they are best trained. The members of this league are not reqt:tired to perform any military or naval service except in case of war and then they are pledged to serve in such capacity as the United States gov- ernment may require. There is much difference of opinion as to the exfent of preparation necessary for our national defence, but it is a very wise step of precaution to index the information con- cerning those who are especially qualified and are willing to serve their country when needed. It is only an act of patriotism to enroll in the American Legion and hold your- self in readiness to respond to the call to and navy are extremely weak and these are colors. two departments of our government that can not be developed in a week, or a tnon th, or even in a year but it would take years to raise our army and navy to an equal foot- ing with those of Europe. In case the United States were drawn suddenly into war the de- fense of this country would depend chiefly on citizen soldiery and it is the object of the An1erican Legion to develope such a sold- . 1ery. 1'he United States government has no. record of the present addresses and quali- fications of its honorably discharged sold- ier8_, sailors, and marines, nor have the sev- eral states any such records concerning forn1- er members of the various militias. The American Legion is formed to enroll the nan1.es of any citizens qualified either by previous 1nili tary or technical training and who are willing to respond in case the United States should at any ti1ne need their ser- vices. This inforn1ation is classi:fied so that in case of necessity these men could be as- PREXY MAKES WESTERN TRIP. During the week of December 13, Presi- dent Richmond made a tour to the middle west, speaking at Union alumni meetings in Buffalo, Detroit, Chicago, and Cleveland. An intended visit to St. Paul, the head- quarters of the Northwest for Union alumni, was unfortunately prevented. Dr. Rich1nond also spoke to the Camp Gahada boys at their reunion dinner held in this city. On Tuesday night Prexy spoke to the Cosmopolitan Club, and next Saturday he will address the students of the Albany Girls' Academy. President Richn1ond's pen has not been idle either. A poem entitled \The Lord's Prayer,\ appeared in the Christmas number of the \Outlook and an article on \Patriot- j s1n in Colleges\ was published in the \Yale < ~ l\f ews.\ ' ~.i Question-\When did· the revival of 1 earning begin?'·' Answer·-\J ust before the exan1s.\-Ex. . : ,' .,

18 'THE CONCORDIENSIS Our one great happiness so far this happy rtew year has been in watching Terrible La Grippe fell one after another of our never- need-a-doctor-friends. We are warmed with an ever warmer glow of sinful pleasure as new red noses appear around us, and our O\Vn remains in serene good behaviot. Hartkv New ·y·ear! .,I TI-IE INEBRIATE'S PARAGRAPH. Hoppy New Year! WHEREIN EFFICIENCY IS NO EF- FICIENCY. The latest kink in fountain pens Is a middle so transparent tfhat dearth of ink when it hapPENS 1 s easily apparent. \ \T e do not care for this efficient Cv because it's cause o£ \' \1\l ondering ere the ink's half spent \tVho vve'll bum the next of. TliE McKEAN DIALOGUE. (Being the delivery of an oration by a col- lege· student). \Mr. Blank will speak on 'PrepaJredness for For.' '' \One half of the world's now engaged in a war which'll leave one side utterly over- con'le and the other side powed-ah-proud and haughty in-in vict-ry. Then the vic- tor-then the victor-un1~en-en--\ \Enhanced.\ \Then the victor enhance to-/ \WILL enhance.\ \Yes- Will enhance to-\ \The.\ \Eh ?\ \THE!'' \The ?-Oh, sure!-·- 'fhe policy of Amer'\' ica therefore is-·\ \Hey! No! You're skipping'. Will en-- hance THE IDEA.'' \Aw gee yes! Will enhance the idea ot comin' over and conq'ring America. Ther__. er-let's ·see-the con~ress of the United States should therefore arm-er-arm them ... selves and-'t \No! The NATION.\ \Huh?\ \The N-A-T-I-0-N !,, \The nation?'' \Arm the NATION, not themselves, you-\ \Aw GEE yes! Arm the nation, not them- selves. Suf-sufficient finances should be appropriated to-to-to-say prompt me, will ya !;; \I-I can 1 t find it! I can't find the place!'' \Appropriated to~gee !-to-\ \HERE IT IS! To afford ample-'' \Pertection to our-n \lJ nguarded shores whcih-. \ \Is now totally unguarded and-\ \Open to-'' \The ravug-es of the-H \Foreign mer--'' \-i\uder. The-er-the policy of America is therefore to filful-oh, shucks !-fulfil the idea of prepared-ness. And-er-well-Presi- dent 'Vilson and-\vell-\ \I-Iey EY! Stop. You're THROUGH!'' The Tribune's Truthful Ad. Dept. wilt kindly confer the iron cross upon that wide- ly advertised '\'Blank's Full Orchestra ot Schenectady,\ because, on inquiry, we learn ... ed that they invariably are. v s r tl . 1: I L c t t c 1. a e s t ( v c . l t r t 1 r r s l c t I }

THE CONCORDIENSIS 19 S~[ASHING THE :FOOTLIGHTS. Our enemies, the New York managers, are working over-tir:ne this season. Many of the productions which they bave sent to the Van 'vere an1ong the best on the New York stages in the past few years, but the nth rate casts were so miserable that all sembl- ance of the piece's orig-tnal excellence was lost. \The Only Girl,\ in the Van Tuesday and \V ednesday, was the best musical play of last year. With the cast that carried it here, it would have been a pitiful failure. The performance, in the light of what it might and should have been, was disgust- ing, and the sight of s·ttch faces as Wilda Bennett, Ernest Torrence and John Find- lay among the photographs in the lobby as one left the Van gave a finishing touch to the agony. We are e:xtremely sorry fo.r those who saw \The Only Gi,rl\ for the first time last week. She was in a very un- becoming disguise. * * * * The Crane-Shirleys desired our stamp of approval but we, in our rig-hteous independ- ence, ·did not think they <leserved it, and said so. ~\'fhis seemed to do no harm to the for- tune of the company other than rile Mr. Crane somewhat. We did not expect it would.. But finally came their presentation of \The Yell ow Ticket\'-well staged and, in most cases, well acted-and we lauded the C-S's to the skies, giving them sotnewhat more than was thei'r due and begging them to keep up the good ·V\rork. It was too much. They couldn't stand it. Within forty-eight hours they were gone bag and baggage and never a word has been heard from them . stnce. * * * * On Your Way, December 9, said of l(atinka: Franklyn Ardell, in the leading comedy role, doesn't fit. May N audain lacks her youthful good looks and liveliness. Var- iety, January 9, _says: An engagement of Emma Trentini for I<atinka is proposed by Arthur Fiamn1.erstein. She will take the role now being played by May N audain. * * * Another reported change in the cast is the departure of Franklyn Ardell. * * * * We gloat over the fact that in the movies, at least, they can't palrn off second com- panies on us. True, they can scratch up their films until they look like a rain-storn1. of Noah's day but, if you can distinguish anything at all, it will be the original ef- forts of the producers. vVe have bought a t\vo-bit seat for \The Birth of a Nation,'' so we can tell our children that once we saw a two-dollar Broadway production staged in a faultless New Y ark manner in Schenec- tady---and paid a quarter for it. Anyway, that's one reason we bought a two-bit seat. \The Birth of a Nation,\ which was pro- duced under the master hand of David W. Griffith, is very probably the greatest ac- complishment of the motion picture world up the present time. Henry W althal, as Col. Cameron, \the Little Colonel,\ does notably in the leading male role, while Lil- lian Gish, as Elsie, supports him. Often reminding one of Mary Pickford, Mae Marsh plays the ingenue role, that of Flora. Walter Long is the villian whom you will hate the most. He appears as Gus, a renegade negro, and was chosen by Grififth because he was r-eputed as being the ugliest darkey in the world. Mr. Proctor has consented to call off his vaudeville while \The Birth of a Nation\ is here. * * • * \It's nice to get up in the morning, but it's nicer to lie in bed!\ writes and sub- seqt1ently sings Harry Lauder. We would climb three flights of stai~rs any day to see a tnan whose ideas so closely coincide wit!:-1 our O\\vvn. Dollars to doughnuts, Harry has known the exquisite torture of the chapel bell and the exquisite delight of setting one's - alarm for seven o'clock Sunday morning· for the so 1 e purpose of waking up, and sneering a tit, and shouting, \Ring Go on and f<JNG! No bell'll influence n1y ns1ng

20 THE CONCORDIENSlS hour.'·' trhe college should 1narch down to the \Tan in a body and go up and see hi1n. * * * * Son1e one of these days, a colleger vvill start a dran1atic societv at Union. ,..fhe \' student body, having forgotten the good old days, will think he has started a new activ- ity, and he will be made a Big Man in his class. * * * * \'\t\' e have a new dansoos at Glenn's. She is none other than Mlle. Irene A1ebasea \7\Tise, Roumanian Dancer. .l\ word to the \'lise is sufficient. Oi ! V\Te believed that that trite as Ed1vard Everett would put it,_ saying, \·very Good Eddie,\ had filtered to the ends of the earth, but we recently found a n1an with one-half :.:t tJnion CoJlege education V\rho has so far been utterly immune. 'rhe neophyte and ourself vvere staggering to class over the college} s rnost select ice when a freshman, just ahead, fell like a pancake.' It make us merry and we joked, \Vi ell done, Eddie I\ Blandly, in- nocently, he asked. ''Is his name Eddy?\ Phew! A.nd they assassinated Abraha1n ! VERY GOOD, EDDIE! Our ido], says the AI umni lVIonthjy, was supposed by its original Chinese o~wners to be an antidote for evil fortune. It, like 1nany others of its kind, was placed before the door of a hotne to prevent homicide and other unpleasantnesses. It occurred to us that, since the idol has stood guard over it, every basketball game in the new gym has been a victory. One section of the radiator in Rootn VI, 11. S. S. C., was found faultlessly painted when the occupants returned from vaca- tion. We figured it out with a slide-rule. It will be completed in the spring of 1845. Then we will send back our youngest son to see if it has yet got hot down to the end. If he says it has, we will spank him for falsifying. WHO SAYS THIS COLLEGE RUNS TO ENGINEERS? The logicians were dissecting that syllog- isnl about no cats and their respective num- ber of tails. It was Balm of Gilead to us when 1:-Iallock, with the supreme confidence of one vvho has never been wrong before, tnade this beautiful faux pas : \Putting aside the logical standpoint, this syllogism is mathen\Iatically incorrect, because one plus zero equals zero!\ SAFETY FIRST! Save Your Teeth First, Last and all the Time. 'I'hus runs the ad. of the Hill Dental Co. We see its significance. Never again will we get off the car backwards. George Jean Nathan, in \Another Book A bout the Stage,\ gets it over strong when .he calls the young ladies' boarding school an institution of yearning. ADV. You contrjbs sin1ply won't contrib. We spoke to you about this matter once before. Spoke severely, and all we got in reply was one scurrilous gag that we returned to the envelope -vvi th a pair of tongs and forward- ed to the Police Gazette, receiving, three days later, a blue rejection slip therefrortl. vVhat's the tnatter with you? 1\'rue \'VVe have been forced to reject your n1anuscripts in great nun1bers, but heavens! don't you see it is in'lmensely worth while to try and try again until you DO land something in a colun1n of this calibre? Come now-don't iose heart. Exan1ine our methods. Try to catch the spirit of the light. airy style. Give your hnmor a roaring punch, but keep it g~racefully refined withal. Fill space. 'i\ Jl

THE CONCORDIENSIS 21 See here--like this : 1\he old songs are kind of stiff-But we n1ade this India-rubber: Svveet Ade- line! Sweet Ade- line! You're the only idle line- Sweet Ade- line! NITE. EXAMINATION SCHEDULE. FIRST SEMESTER. Wednesday, January 28. 9 A. M.-History of Philosophy. European History. Soph. Acad. English. Fresh. Acad. Int. French. Fresh. i\cad. Int. German. Fresh. Greek A. Fresh. Greek B. Senior E. E. Theory. Junior B. E. Chemistry. Senior B. E. 1\!Iotors. 2 P. 11.-:Fresh. B. E. Rhetoric. Soph. B. E. Chemistry. Junior E. E. Theory. Thursday, January 27. 9 A... lVI.-Senior Acad. Economics. 2 P. Advanced Calculus. Mineralogy and Geology. English 4. Sop h. A cad. Calculus. Soph. Latin. Hydraulics. Senior B. E. Electrical Machinery. Soph. B. E. Int. Gern1a11. M.-Greek (Honors). Organic Chemist1'y. Hygiene. F'resh. Pre-Medic Biology. Senior E. E. Seminar. Friday, January 28. 0 1\. M.---Senior Latin. English 7. Differential Equations. Junior Econotnics. Soph. B. E. Calculus. 'fopographical Surveying. Senior B. E. Law. 2 P. M.-·-English 9. Advanced Psychology. Junior Latin. Argumentation. Fresh. B. E. Elem. French. Fresl;l. B. E. Int. F.rench. Senior E. E. Laboratory. Saturday, January 29. U A. M.-Senior Greek B. Ad. Argumentation. Math. Physics. Economic Geology. Logic. General Chemistry. Junior German 3. Soph. Elem. French. Soph. Elem. German. Fresh. Latin. Sop h. B. B. English. Senior B. E. and E. E. Economics. Junior E. E. Laboratory. Finance. Monday, January 31. 9 A. M.-Senior German. 2 P. Senior Greek A. International Law. Junior French. T unior Greek A. Fresh. B. S. and B. E. 1\fathe ~ rna tics. Soph. B. E. Surveying. Junior B. E. and E. E. Mechanics. Railroad Construction. M.-AnimallVtorphology. Quantitative Analysis. Sop h. A cad. History. Soph. Greek A.

22 THE CONCORDIENSIS Tuesday, February 1. 9 A. M.-Latin (Honors). Sociology. General Physics. Fresh.~ Acad. English. Sen. E. E. Thermody N amics. Stresses. Fresh. B. E. Drawing. . ~ P. M.-Senior French. American History. Junior German 3a. Junior Greek B. Shop. A. B., Ph. B. Biology. Soph. Acad. Analytics. Architectu-re. Wednesday, February 2. ~ A. M.-Spanish. History of Education. Qualitative Analysis. Soph. B. S. Biology. Fresh. A. B. and Ph. B. Mathe- matics. Fresh. B. E. Elem. German. Fresh. B. E. Int. German. Junior B. E. Law. Geodesy. ·Heating and Ventilation. AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY Section of Eastern New York Holds Meeting in Chemistry Lecture Room. W. Earl Weller '07 Gives Address. Thursday evening, December 30, 1915, the 61st meeting of the local section of the American Chemical Society was held in the chemistry lecture room. The speakers of the evening were W. W. Chadsey, Deputy Commissioner of Public Works of the Citv .I of Schenectady, and W. Earl Weller, Union 1907, Deputy City Engineer. The former told of the approved methods of garbage treatment and the latter gave a very inter·- esting paper on the disposal of sewage. A very complete set of slides illustrated the methods in general use and with particular reference to Schenectady's sewage disposal and garbage reduction plants. A good at- tendance was in evidence, and a profi tabl~ discussion enjoyed. Preceding the addresses, the annual elec- tion of officers took place. For 1916, the officers are as follows : President, W. C. .Arsem, G. :E.; vice-president, Dr. Hunter, 1{. P. I.; secretary and treasurer, A. J. Salathe, Union College; councillor, Dr . Coolidge, G. E.; executive committee, Dr. Ellery, Union; Dr. Fonda, G. E.; Dr. Dush- man, G. E. The next meeting will be the last week in January. 1\ir. Estabrooke of Albany will give the address. GREEN-TOPPED WARRIORS CLASH ON ROSTRUM. Williams-Union Freshman Debate. Tomorrow evening the Unipn College freshman debating team will opose the freshman team of Williams College at Wil- liamstown. The subject will be: \Resolved That a compulsory course in military train- ing be substituted for the present gyn1 work in the freshman year in colleges.\ The Union team will uphold the negative side of the argument. It is expected that the freshman will m.ake as good a showing against Williams as the 'varsity team did last month. The freshman team consists of Charles Brind of Albany, Peters of Schenectady;, A. D .. Greene, Schenectady, third speaker and captain ; and Watts of Schenectady, al- ternate. OH! MURSA! If the GOODMAN has the PRICE the PORTER will trim his SCHABBEHAR so he may go GIRLING. He may enter his CARR which is a HUMMER and through FORREST and GLENN go GUNNING for COON, BEA \TER, KING FISHER or FINCH. TRUE the URBAN WOOD 1nay yield a BEHR or BULL in PASS- AGE. Or being a FISCHER he may J . ( l

THE CONCORDIENSIS 23 FISCH and KEtfCHUM, and SCALES will show the w·eight. The COOK wilt serve them in FRIES fit for a KING. On several GREENS he may GOFF if he has not AKEN joints. vVith a STEIN of PORTER before him he may REED, FRID.A.Y, of ENGLAND LADD'S ef- forts to V\TYNNE, or MAIER and KNIGHT who NASH teeth as ROUNDS smash NEUI-IAUS, HALL and TOWNE. Of ABBE and SEXSON placing under l\10ULDS the LOWMAN who has died- and SOUZ ... t\ leads the band. PROSPECTS FOR ALLISON-FOOTE DEBATE. Friday afternoon the Adelphic Society, at its weekly meeting in conference with Prof. 1V1ci(ean, selected the following subject for the Allison-Foote debate: \Resolved That in view of present world conditions, the Monroe doctrine (in<;luding any modifica- tions thereof) should be abandoned.\ Sub- jects for debate were discussed by the club c.nd the one selected: was chosen by a spec- . al co1n1nittee app;JitltEd fo~ t-he purpose. . Saturday the subject was formaHy present- ed as a challenge to Philomathea. The Adelphic society, though defeated last year, and with three 'varsity debaters as certain opponents this year, is conti.dent of victor'( \' and expects to retrieve its pristine glory of former years. Many excellent debaters have recently joined the Adelphics' ranks, among whom are an exceptionally large number of freshmen who give promise for strong Adel- phic teams in future yeaL3. As soon as the try-outs are held, the Philomathean team chosen will select the side they prefer and preparation for the bat- tle which will probably come in February, will begin. W. C. VOSBURG TO LEAVE CHEMIS- TRY DEPARTMENT. Warren C. Vosburg '14, assistant in our chemistry department, left Saturday, J anu- ary 8, to take a position as research assist- ant to Prof. Nelson of Columbia Universitv ·' in the department of organic chetuistry, Vosburg was one of the honor men of hi:; class, taking special honors in chetuistry and n1athematics. He is a member of the Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity. He has been instructor here in the chemical laborator\r ever since his graduation and vvill be great- ly missed. RELY ON YOURSELF . In battle or in business-whatever the gatue In law or in love, it is ever the same; In the struggle for power or scramble for se H, Let this be your motto : \Rely on yourself,\ For whatever the prize be, a ribbon or throne The victor is he who can go it alone. -The Mountaineer. 1916~-~3 Speed Excelsior Motorcycle $250 1914--2 Speed $200 Skates and Sleds, Bicycles for Everyone, Skates Sharpened. Cash or Credit BURKE'S 230 So. Centre Street Sole Agent for Henderson M()torcycle . ! ' ' '

.... . . When you want anything at QUINN'S Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store Just Telephone 1285 Quinn Delivers Free With H ast.y Messengers Geo. A. Cassedy Co. Established 1850 Dealers in VICTROLAS, PIANOS, SHEET MUSIC & MUSICAL MERCHANDISE 464-466 State Street, Schenectady, New York. Wally Girling Johnson and Murphy Shoes Kirkpatrick Shoes Room I & II, Middle Section South College Bellinger Paint Co. PAINTS, OILS Dealers in all Kinds of Wax Polishes 212 SO. CENTRE ST. ALBANY, N.Y. Evening Clothes. That Are Correct. · whether you are in need of a Dress Suit, Tuxedo-white or black waist- coat-gloves or a Silk Hat-a Shirt, or Shirt Studs, a Tie or even a Col- lar, you may safely come to Steefel's, confident of finding splendid assort- ment of all that is correct. JOE. NUSBAUM Schenectady's Leading HATTER AND HABERDASHER 336 STATE STREET. College Men and Young Men Who Se·ek PerfectiGn in Fit- Paramount Quality and Corred Style will find their every .demand satis- factorily met in our })ig Men's De .. partment devoted to the selling of Quality Shoes. HANAN SUREF:::T $-7 and fS. ·~ to fS. DANCING PUMPS. e Stylee·. $3 't«» $5. Patton Ci .H alii SCHENEOTADY AND SARATOGA. 1 I

John L. Manny & Bro. LEADING TAILORS OF EASTERN NEW YORK. 38 THIRD STREET, TROY, N.Y. We Display 500 Styles of English and Scotch Woolens. 100 References from Prominent Citizens of Schenectady. We .rebate to all customers favoring us with patronage their travelin~ expenses ''The College Photographer'' GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 E. W. MANDEVILLE, '17 Colle6ie Repre•~ntative NEAR BARNEY'S 1908 1914 191S The \Vallace Co. \Schenectady's Distinctive Store.\ Our superior buying facilitie!s insure our patrons the broadest, most ex- clusive stocks. Quality considered our prices are the most reasonable here- abouts. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferr 1 y Street Creamery Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head\ Shows over the coat in back; low sharp, smart curveaway front; good knot and slide space ~for t25c CLUETT. PEABODY &. CO .• Inc .. Makers, TROY, N.Y. CLEANLINESS lends you an additional charm. It is al- ways an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. We clean everything that needs clean .. ing-all high-grade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. 'Phone 1909- J 440 State Street Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. 'Phone 4489 IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS

If you are a real genius, keep it to yourself. If you are a real eighteen carat article Folks will find out about you, and You will get your rewardo A College Man's Store of the \Square Deal Sort\ \Ve have an ideal of what a college n1an's clothing store ought to be, and we try to live np to it-to do by you as we would have you do by us. Good st()rekeeping is son1ething more than expending our energy in trying to catch the nin1ble dollars and cents. When you decide to buy here, we on our part resolve that your purchase shall please you so con1pletely that you think of this store first when you wish to buy again. You are to feel that we have acted honorably toward you~ and have been truly helpful in value and ser,rice. ·~{ ou are to feel that this is a college tnan's store of the dsquare deal.H Exclusive Models-Exclusive Fabrics. Created By Us-For You. SUITS OVERCOATS S I 0 ~rc1 $30 S I 0 T<) $30 YOUR HOLIDAY HAT-A DERBY \The Store of Today-Four Hours From Broadway.\ 455 STATE STREET Schenectady ~ Art Press I t

It CfJfe CONCORDIENSIS : := :. : - Games with Wesleyan and Crescent A. C. voLurvrE 39 JANUARY 20, 1 9 16 No. 12 PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY

UNION UNIVERSI1Y \ CHARLES Al_,EXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL.D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALEANY MEDICAL COLLEGE, Founded 1838-A. complete reorganization has been effected during the past year. Largely increased Hospital facilities have been assured with teaching services both in Medicine and Surgery, students having im- rnediate respon'Sibility under supervision. The laboratory staff has been increased and the courses re-arranged to con form to improved methods. With these changes, it is believed that the Albany Medical College is prepared to furnish instruction which '\\'ill meet the highest demands of modern medical education. The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. Ceur•em leadi:ug to the degree of A. B. CLASSICAL CoURSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CoeRSE B -This course may be pur sued by candidates who satisfy the requirements for admission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on entrance and required for two years. In other respects Course B. is identical with Course A. J. Conr•e lending to the degree of Ph. B. LATIN-SCIENTIFIC CouRSE-This course offers ~atin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading to the degree <Of B. S. SCIENTIFIC CouRSE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leading to the degree of B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRSE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE- This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Cour•es leading to graduate degreei!J. CouRSE LEADING To DEGREE oF M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE LEADING TO DEGREE or M. S. in E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE LEADING To DEGREE oF Pa:. D.- This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M S. in E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARN:ES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery AdmissiQn Requirements: Each candidate for ad- tnission :rn ust present his Medical Student's Certi- ficate from the Examinations Division of the Board of Regents of the State of New York and must furnish evidence of the satisfactory completion of one year's study, in a recognized college or scien- tific sc:h ool, of physics, chemistry, biology and French or German. Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., 11as arrang-ed for such a course. Tuition: The charg-e for tuition is $160.00 a year and $5.00 for matriculation. There are no extra fees except for rental of microscopes and labor- atory breakage. The academic year begins Sept. 27, 1915. All in- quiries and other communication-s should be ad- dressed to TI-101\1AS ORDWAY, M. D., Dean, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW ALB/\NY LAVv SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the st~te capitoL It occupies a builriing wholty devoted to ttl use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years ; each year is divided into two semesters. Ex:penses: 1-fatriculation fee, $Io; tuition fee, $IIO. Fol\ catalogue or other information, address: JOHN C. WATSON, Secretary. Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALB.a.NY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each Fees. $oo.oo per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: Aut-RED B. HuEs'rF.D, Secretary, 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. SUITS PRESSED 25Ca DRY CLEANING AND PRESSING. St.ti ts Called for and Delivered. Phone 2925- W 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate CHAS COOPER, No. 1 Landon Terrace Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop J ns t Across from the Green Gate !. I I

!. I I The Concordiensis VOL. 39 JANUARY 20, 1916 NO. 12 UNION LOSES ITS FIRST OUT OF TOWN GAME. Score Favors Methodists 21-15. Union played the first out of town game of the season against vV esleyan on Friday night and was beaten in the second half by the long shots of Harmon and Timmerman. 'fhe line-up was the same as that which faced R. P. I. a week ago and during the first half the lead alternated, and the half ended with the score 13 to 11 in favor of Wesleyan. In the second period both teams guarded closely but the superior ability of the Methodists in making long baskets gave them the game. Both teams played good, snappy basketball, the pass work of the Garnet team being exceptionally fast and accurate. Scoby and Zimmer starred for ·union, the former making two field baskets · \vhile Zip made seven out of nine fouls registered. WESLEYAN The score: F.B. Ffoffn1an, R.F. ---------- 1 I-~armon, L.F. ---------- 3 Pitt, C. ----------------- 1 'rin1n1erman, R.G. ------- 3 Chapin, L.G. ------------ 1 Keith, C. --------------- 0 9 F.B. T.P. 0 2 3 9 0 2 0 6 0 2 0 0 3 21 UNION. F.B. Haubner, R.F. ---------- 0 Scoby, L.F. ------------ 2 Franck, C. ------------- 1 Zimmer, R.G. ----------- 1 Mudge, L.G. ------------ o Kirkup, L.G. ------------ o F.B. 0 0 0 \' 0 0 4: 7 Referee-Deering of Manhattan. of halves- 20 minutes. T.P. 0 4 2 9 0 0 15 Time CRESCENT A. C. WINS FROM UNION. Union \Pep!' Not Match for Brooklyn Athletes. Union ended a rather disastrous basketball trip by being beaten on Saturday night by the Crescent A. C. team of Brooklyn. How- ever, in spite of the beating there is good rea- son for the Union students to feel more con- fident in the future ability of the teatn for Coach Dawson has discovered a new com- bination which worked wonders during the latter part of the game. Gene Hummer, our versatile athlete, who also is very proficient at ye ancient game of \one old cat,\ was sent in at center and Franck was shifted to right guard. During the first half of the contest the new combination did not feel at home and as a result the Crescent A. C. rolled up a score of twenty points to seven scored by the Garnet. During this half the play of the

10 THE CONCORDIENSTS Union team was rather disorganized and as a result G. Halstead and Calder were given several opportunities to score. The second half, however, was an entirely different story and it was at once evident that Union had found itself. The half open- ed with a rush and Union immediately be- gan to drop in baskets, while close guarding prevented the Brooklyn team from coming near the .Union basket. Here Heath and H. Halstead came to the rescue of their team and with a few long shots succeeded in keep- ing their score out of the danger zone. Joe Haubner was kept on the bench until the last five minutes, due to his lack of weight, but when he went in more pep was added to the Union teatn and again the score began to mount. However, the rally was too late and the whistle ended the game with the score 34 to 22 in favor of the Crescents. Dave Beaver was in a Crescent uni£orn1 but was unable to score against Jimmy .:vr udge, while the blond guard made two neat baskets. Zimmer was in his usual good form and made 10 out of 12 fouls count. The Crescents are one of the best teams in New York and have already beaten Yale and Dartmouth, so the showing of the Gar- net tean~ is no cause for discouragement. 1\'h e score : CRESCENT A. C. F.B. F.B. T.P. Calder, L.F. ------------- 2 Heath, R\F. ------------- 2 Beaver, L.F. ----·-------- 0 Tuthill, L.F. ------------ o G. 1-Ialstead, C. ---------- · 6 Dingbee, R.G. ---------- 1 Steenbubler, R.G. -------- 0 FL T-J alstead, L.G. ------- 2 13 0 0 0 0 8 0 0 0 8 4 4 0 0 20 2 0 4 34 UNION. F.B. F.B. T.P~ Franck, R.F. ----------- 2 0 4 Scoby, L.F. ------------ 0 0 0 Haubner, L.F. ----------- 1 0 2 I-Iummer, c. ------------ 0 0 0 Mudge, L.G. ------------ 2 0 4 Zimmer, R.G. ____ ...., _____ 1 10 12 6 10 22 TRACK PRACTICE BEGINS. . Beginning this week, training for indoor track will become an earnest effort. The squad will report regularly on vV ednesdays and Fridays. A new system in regard to training is to be t·ried out this year. Each man will be given a course of physical train- ing in calisthenics and the like, in addition to regular training, in the hope that it will further improve the physical condition of the team as a whole. There will be an inter- class meet about the latter part of February, and arrangements are being completed for a dual 1neet with R. P: I., though a definite date has not yet been decided upon. Thus fa·r about thirty men have reported for train- ing, and it is said there is good material in the freshman class. More men are needed, however, and any one who has any athletic ability is requested to report at the gym- . nas1um. CLASSICAL CLUB. Tuesday evening the Classical Club lis~ tened to a very interesting paper by Dr. Fobes on \Student Life at Oxford.\ Dr. Fobes presented the subject in a delightful n1anner and would be a very welcome speaker before the club at some future date. After graduating from Harvard Dr. Fobes went to Oxford as a Rhodes scholar. The tneeting received a fair attendance. At its next bi-weekly n~eeting Richard E. Taylor will present a paper on 'tThe Great Idea.\ ... .1. 1 ,-! (r c:: J . 1 ] I

I THE CONCORDIENSIS 11 FROSH BANQUET. Sophs Fail to Put Din in Dinner. The freshman banquet was held Tuesday night, January 11, at The Rensselaer, Troy. Ninety-seven, inclusive of upper classmen and freshmen, sat down to the banquet in the Red Room of the hotel. As is usual, the identity of the freshman class president was revealed on this occasion. He is Harry Van Ness Philip, of Schenectady. The other of- ficers are : J. Ferdinand Davidson, vice-presi- dent, and Frederic Townsend, secretary- treasurer. the lower floor of the hotel. They prefer·- red to be huddled in their rooms where they played cards and threw water bombs down onto the sophs on the sidewalk. The sophs had gone over to ~rroy early Tuesday and .captured a few stragglers, bt:tt they were very few and as there were no freshmen adrift in the hotel to offer amusement, they became weary of the game and departed early in the evening. The only noteworthy inci- dent of the afternoon was the entrance of LaV\ 7 Bowman, effected by means of a dis- guise. After fruitlessly dodging about in a taxi in an effort to catch the hotel entrance tnomentarily deserted, he procured a false n1oustache and a chauffeur's cap and coat and walked safely in the rear door of the hotel. The freshman began to leave the campus I\fonday. A few had even gone to Troy on Sunday. The Sophs ~rallied early Monday afternoon and dispatched a squadron to the front armed with shears. They were soon intrenched and a cordon was drawn about the hotel. A few frosh were immediately caught and underwent the hirsute operation. There were only about twenty freshmen safely ensconced in the hotel, so the sophs knew that they had but to await the arrival of the others. These tactics would have been successful in the end had not a horde of frosh come down the street in massed formation under convoy of a platoon of police who ushered them unharmed through the rear entrance of the hotel. It was as- certained that the Troy police force was not going to engage any further in Union col- lege inter-class contests, so the sophomores could have reaped a bumper crop of freshmen hair had they stayed at their posts; but the night was damp and chilly and when no freshmen put in an appearance in the next few hours the sophs relaxed their vigilance and returned to Schenectady. Then after midnight the remainder of the freshmen crept through the darkness and into the hotel -vvithout casualties. They secured rooms and there they stayed all the next day. They ·were extremely nervous about coming down- stairs. AU ·day Tuesday there was scarce- ly a freshn1an to be seen in the lobby or on The diners sat down at nine o'clock. After a sumptuous dinner Gummy Glenn, acting as toastmaster, introduce~ the speakers, who \vere. The freshmen president, members of the Ter,race Council, Meade Brunet, and 1VIr. Parker. They all spoke briefly and in harmony with the conviviality of the occa- . SlOn. i\long about twelve o'clock when Scoop \r ought vvas trying to walk on the ceiling and l.(ouis Mann was trying to persuade everybody that he vvas Field Marshal Von 1lindenburg on a furlough, and Guy Becl<- ett 'vas telling Ted Paln1er to say when, ann Al Preston, the Hashimura Togo of the Southern 'rier, was developing enough vatu- hili ty to break all his previous records as a Iv.farathon talker, and Patterson's face was beaming with the genialest of smiles, and Philip vvas giving his speech again for the ninety-seventh t1 n1.e in a falsetto fortissima, and somebody wanted to sing and somebod-v else wanted to sn1ash the glassware, and th.e \r ounio~ Uths generally were all mixed up,-- but all this didn't really happen It was prob .. ably the quiestest, 1nost proper and n1ost de- corous freshman banquet that Proprietor Mc- Glvnn has ever experienced, and there is

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS such a dearth of detail about what actuallv ... occurr·ed that we have had to tell what didn't occur. There is not much truth to tell about it except that it was a good banquet and everyone had a good time. The committee was n1.ade up of the follow- ing: Edward Patterson, chairman; Robert Persons, Raymond G. Urban ar;td Arthur Underwood. VliLLIAMS FRESHMEN WORST UNION FRESHMEN IN BATTLE OF WORDS. Friday, January 14, the Williams fresh- 1nen defeated our first year men in a debate on the question of substituting military training for gymnasium work in colleges. Our team did fair work but their opponents semed to have had m.ore practice. This is the first ti1ne a lJnion freshman team has debated outside of the college. 1.'he men1 bers of the tean1 were : Ralph Peters and \\Villi am Watts of Schenectady; Char] es Brind of .AJbany. and A. D. Greene. WALL MAP PRESE.NTED. H.ev. William T. Cherry, '97, of Singa- pore. has presented the college with a large vval1 n1.ap of the Malay Peninsula, the ori- g·i nal of which v.\as designed and drawn by hin1se1f. J.VIr. Cher.ry is superintendent of a ~1ethodist publishing house in Singapore and has written and published several works for us~ in the Singapore schools. This rnap \vas prepared to illustrate a geography of the l\falay peninsula, of which Mr. Cherry is the author. The gift was 1nade through Dean Ripton and in the letter acco1npanying it the donor states that he presents the college with this n1ap to show his devotion to Union and in so1ne tneasure to repay the debt he feels o\ving- to his Aln1a Mater. At present the < ' n1ay bangs in the librarian's alcove of Nott 1\'f en1orial Library. COSMOPOLITAN CLUB. A meeting of the Cosmopolitan Club was held last rruesday evening in the club rooms in North Section, South College. After the regular routine of business was over, Dr. Richmond gave a very interesting talk about the life of Robert Burns. As Prexy is of Scotch descent he is always glad to sing the praises of Scotland's favorite sons and for the occasion he chose one of the great- est but n1ost unfortunate. He traced Burns's life from his birth in a thatched cottage through his period of success to his death in a tavern and told a great n1any interesting anecdotes of his life. Among these was the story of the poem written when Burns, in ploughing, disturbed the home of a field mouse. Jiis sor·row for the ·deed and syn1- pathy for the little animal gave him the in- spiration for one of his best poems. Dr. Richmond ended his talk by reciting the well know poem, \ ... .L\uld I(ang Syne,\ and remark- ed that vve would appreciate it more when we returned for our reunions. He has re- cently received from Dr. Palmer of Harvard son1e very valuable early editions of Burns' poetn s, which he passed around for the in- spection of the members. After the meeting refreshments were served and the guests given an opportunity to partake of real Brazilian coffee. FROSH AND SOPHS WIN OPENING GAMES IN INTER-CLASS BASKETBALL. In the first games of the inter-class bas- ketball series played Monday night, J anu- ary 1 'I, the sophomores defeated the sen- iors 10-6, and the freshmen won over the juniors 12-1:1. 1'he frosh-junior contest was furiously fought, .. A Yila dropping in the de- cisive basket. Go to the Prom!

THE :CONCORDIENSIS 13 DEATH OF ISAAC WATSON DUNHAM. Isaac Watson Dunham, of Hartford, Conn., one of the oldest 1i ving graduates oif Union College, died at the Johnson Private Hospital in Hartford, Thursday, December 30th. He was injured ~in the early part of September in a fall down stairs at his home. Owing to his advanced age he did not re- cover from the shock and Bright's disease developed. Mr. Dunham suffered a cere- bral hemorrhage a week before his death and was unconscious for the last week of his life. Mr. Dunham traced his ancestry to Ry- chert Dunham, who was born in 1294 in Devonshire, England. His emigrant an- cestor to this country was John Dunham, who came to America in 1620. His ances- tors were among the earliest settlers of Con- necticut. JVIr. Dunham was the son of Captain Cy- prian Watson Dunham and Sarah Howes, and was born in Schenectady June 5, 1827. He secured his early education in the public schools and the Schenectady Lyceum. He graduated from Union College at 19 years of age in the class of 184:6. The Rev. Dr. Eliphalet Nott was presi- dent of Union at that time. Just previous to his death l\1r. Dunham had n1ade some notes of impressions of Dr. N ott's life and character and intended to send it to the Concordiensis when con1pleted. Of the 106 n1embers of his class Mr. Dunham was the last and but for his fall it is expected that he would have attended the 70th anniver- sary of his graduation this June. He alvvays took a warn1 interest in the affairs of the college. He loved Union College and all it has stood for these tnany years. JV[ost of Mr. Dunham's active life was spent in educational work. He successfully conducted the Franklin Institute in Sche- nectady for three years £allowing his grad- uation and personally tutored Chester A. Arthur, the twenty-first president of the United States j11st previous to Mr. Arthur's matriculation in Union College. l\1r. Dunham was principal of schools in Chatham, Frankfort and Troy, N. Y. He \\vas Superintendent of Schools in Troy fron1 1860 to 1868; in North Adams, Mass., from 1868 to 1874, and in Bennington, Vt., fro1n 187-4 to 1886. Through impaired vision, caused by cataract on both eyes, he was compelled to retire from his profession in 1386. In 1891 he Utlderwent an operation which partially restored the sight of one eye and subsequently be became an associate editor of the Schenectady Gazette and con·· trihuted many articles on education and other subjects, which received a large cir- culation. In 1907 Mr. Dunham issued a genealogy of the Dunhan1 family in this country which he had been n1any years in compjling. 1\!Ir. Dunham knew the history of Schenectady County as few men did and had prepared a manuscript which he hoped to finish this year. Mr. Dunham voted for Zachary Taylor in 184R and had voted at every following presidential election. He vvas an old line Den1ocrat. II\\ n1oved to Stratford in 1905 and had resided with his daughter, 1\tirs. S. R. Bra- tnan. Mr. Dunham was tnarried Septem- ber 4, 1849, to Jane Shaw, of Albany, N. Y., \vho di--:d August 19, 1870. He tnarried l\!Iartha A .. Lindley, of \\Tilliamstown, Mass., 1\'tay 23, 1 B'/2. ;-fen children ·were born to hin1 of whon1 five ct.re living. He had ten grandchildren of whon1 five are living. The funeral was held in H aratford, De- cember 30, the Rev. Dr. Rockwell Harmon Potter. Un1on '95, and the Rev. George L. Clark officiating. 'rhe burial V\'as in Vale Ce1netery, Schenectady, December 31, the Rev. Dr. B. ·V\-:. I.Z. rrayler, rector of St. George's, officiating.

14 THE CONCORDiltNSIS THE A Literary and NewsWeekly Publioshed by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., a'S Second Class !,fatter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Richard E. Taylor, '16. ASSISTANT EDITOR Nathaniel A. Finch, '16. LITERARY EDITOR Avrom M. Jacobs, '16. ASS'T LIT. EDITOR James B. Taylor, '16 STAFF ARTIST Alwyn G. Levy, '18. ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. M. Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 F. W. Porter, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Rudolph W. Schwartz, '17. Howard A. Glenn, '16, Business Manager Ernest W. Mandeville, '17, Ass't. Business Manager Subscription: $2.00 per year, payable in advance. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. OUR SINGING. From time to ti1ne the song leader tells us that we are not singing and that life must be put into our efforts. The truth of this should be emphasized. Of course, we are not all Carusos, neither do we come to col- lege for the sake of our voices. But, at the games, where the most of our singing is done, we ought naturally to show our feel- ings by this means. Our voices ought to halfmonize with the spirit of the contest and ought to send an echo to the exertion of the men. If we on the bleachers are really with the men in the game, we will find it no trouble to respond to the call of the leader for a song, in fact it will seem a truly na- tural way of demonstrating the spirit which should be part of every adherent to a college team. vVithou t feeling this spirit and witho-ut giving vent to it, our presence at a game is absolutely useless, for the greatest value of athletics is lost. What benefit do the spec- tators derive from the exercise and training which the contestants receive? Is it only the pleasure of watching? If so, why do we need to support collegiate athletics? The profes- sionals furnish a very interesting game. But the college teatn does not engage in sport for financial reasons. The only real reason for inter-collegiate athletics is that the teams reflect the spirit of the men whose college they represent. The play is not merely as team against team but is also as college against college. We want to see our own teams win and when we see them in action we seem to feel ourselves right among them and pushing them on with our own hands. It is this feeling incited by a gan1e which is the valuable part of it. It is this feeling which goes with a man after college; goes with him \vherever he goes and shows itself in whatever he does. So also should it show itself on the side-lines. It comes to life in the relling and it should also be evidenced in the finer way of exhibiting emotion, that is, by singing. Now, the char- acter of the singing will show clearly the character of the feeling. which inspired it That is why the leader ought never have oc- casion to criticise our singing. With our abundance of good songs and the greater use of Knight's '17 class song, we ought not find the rna tter very hard. Let's be noted for our songs and our singing as well as for our teams and undoubtedly we will then be- cotne noted for better teams. Go to the Prom ! \ :• ,I f ( . ( ] i ] (

\ :• ,I f THE CONCORDIENSIS 15 MILITARY SERVICE. Senator Works of California has intro- duced a bill proposing the maintenance of an army of 200,000 men for ten years whose duty it shall be to work ten months in each year for reforestation, irrigation, and flood prevention, and tV\ro months for militaJry training. The Senator explains that a mil- lion 111en might easily be gathered from the over-flo\ving tenement districts and that the expense of this plan could be met by the sav- ing secured through the work of the pro- posed army. This new idea is certainly well worthy of the thought of college men who are at this time being brought to face the question of n1.ilitary drill in schools and colleges. This proposed plan also is very likely to come before our consideration as citizens and voters. It is not idealistic nonsense and it is not Socialism. It is merely a rational idea of what an army ought to be-constructive, not destructive. It is an army of peace, hos- tile only to waste. Of course the matter is in its infancy and deeper consideration n1ay disclose many faults and obstacles. But it would seem that there is likely to be much that is of value in the idea. ·Why not give it some of our leis- ure time? We shall soon be called upon to decide such issues as this brings forth. Here is something new to tackle for the debate and the oration. (The editorials for this issue were written by Rudolph W. Schwartz.) A woodpecker lit on a freshman's head i\nd settled down to drill. T-Ie bored away for half a day, And then he broke his bilL-Ex. THE ICHABOD SPENCER LECTU'RE COURSE. \The Psychology of Art.\ The course of lectures to be given under the lchabod Spencer lectureship in Psychol- ogy during the winter is on the general sub- Richtnond has been very fortunate in securing nationally recognized authori- ties to conduct the course. These lec- tures are made possible by the en- do,vm.ent of Mrs. Katherine Spencer Leavitt who established the course in memory of her father the Rev. Ichabod Spencer, D. D., of the class of 1822. 'rhe first two lectures, which will be in- troductory, are to be given by Henry Rutgers :iVIarshall, L. H. D., D. S., on February 7th and 8th. The subjects aJre \The Develop- n1ent of the ... t\esthetic Men1ory\ and \The Results of Modern Aesthetics.\ Dr. Mar- shall is a graduate of Columbia, an archi- tect, a lecturer at Columbia, and a special lecturer at Yale. His talks should prove especially interesting. The next lectures of the course will be given on February 28 and 29th by Mr. Daniel Gregory Mason, assitant professor of music at Columbia. He will treat on \The Psychology of Music,\ the first lecture on HForm\ and the second on \Colour.\ The third series is to be delivered by Ralph Adan1s Cram, Litt. D., L. L. D., o·n March 6th and 7th. He will deal with the influ- ences detern1ining the development of Chris- tian architecture from the fall of the Roman Empire until the close of the Renaissance. lie is the supervising architect of P.rinceton lTniversity and the author of many books on a11.ci.ent foreign architecture. Kenyon Cox, N. A., Litt. D., will close the course with two lectures JVIarch 13th and 14-th. He will treat on \Painting as an Art of Imitation\ and '\Painting as an Art of Relation.\ Go to the Prom !

16 THE CONCORDIENSIS STILL '18 INJURED IN FATAL FIRE. Heroic Soph<>more Saves Child and Barely Esc a pes Flames. The entire coUege knows of the calamity which befell John Still, one of our sopho- tnores, in a :fire :last week. We know that he, besides himself being injured seriously, lost his mother, his grandfather, and his aunt. But there is one incident of the story which shall always be a very bright spot in his rernembrance; he saved an infant cousin by dropping the child to men standing be- low. As a coUege we offer to him in his tribulation our praise and respect for the manner in which he saved the child, our deepest sympathy for his loss, and our most earnest hope that he may soon be with us again. Al,ready he is well on the road tore- covery and he e:xpects to return for his mid- year examinations. The college has shown him every atten- tion. .A .. s is usual President Richmond ca1ne first with his announcement before chapel. Since then his class has drawn up and sent to his people a letter of consolation, and to him it has sent flo-vlers. From day to day a nun1bers of fellows have been to the hospital in an attempt to shorten the long hours. A voluntary contribution, which amounted to over thirty dollars, was taken from the student body simply to replace such immed- iate necessities as books, all of which, along with all of his personal p~operty, he lost in the fire. COMMUNICATION. Jan. 18, 1916. Editor-in-Chief of the Concordiensis : The Press Club wishes to acknowledge through your columns the generous sup- port of the student body in the contribution recently taken for J. B. Still, '18. The committee has been requested by Still to express his sincere appreciation for the thoughtful assistance of the students. COMMITTEE. VESPER SERVICE. Rev. M. 0. Van Keuren, the pastor of the Pilgrim Congregational Church, preached at vespers on Sunday. His general the1ne was \Service.\ He gave an illustration of an in- tense form of service in a story of two work- . men. Out in Chicago two men were repalr·- ing the interior of a boiler. frhe steam was accidentally turned on, and both n1en rushed for the ladder by which they might escape. One was about to ascend when he suddenly turned back. \Jitn he said, \you go fi,rst for you're n1arried and I'm not.\ Jim reach- ed safety, but when the other was pulled out he was unconscious and died in a short time. This was conspicuous service; inconspicuous service the speaker also treated, illustrating it strikingly. · Quite a good nun1ber were out to hear Mr. Van Keuren and to enjoy the interesting talk he gave. This was the first time we have had the opportunity of hearing Mr. Van Keuren at vespers and we shall look for- ward to si1nilar occasions in the future. INTER-FRATERNITY CONFERENCE. After looking over the rushing systems of n1any different colleges the Inter-fraternity Conference has decided that they do not want an elaborate rushing system but that a gentlen1an's agreement will govern the var- ious fraternities during rushing season. Next fall the Inter-fraternity Conference will hire a senior to act as secretary and it vvill be his dutv to keep the records and addresses of the. members of the entering class. Also some infonnation concerning fraternity eti- quette will be published in the Y. J\ti. C. A. handbook. In1mediately after exa1ninations plans will be started for Alumni Night at commence- n1ent. Each fraternity will be represented by one of their younger altilnni besides their regular n1em ber of the conference. l t I I } tE oJ a< w be a1 rE b: fc \.iV k.: Y' a1 u p . u: b d p I 0 J~ 'I . lJ t t s r t t (

,. l t \ } THE CONCORDTENSIS. 17 SENIOR SHARKS PRODUCE CALCULUS. 1'wo seniors, William Spraragen and W al- ter Elsworth Wynne, are the joint authors of a text book on calculus which has been accepted by B. Van Nostrand & Co., the well known publishers of engineering text books, aud has been announced for appear- ance shortly after Christmas. Dr. Berg, who read the book in manuscript, speaks of it very highly, not alone as a remarkable production for undergraduates, but as a work that is \.Vell fitted for the field it aims to cover. We k.n.ow fron1. personal experience that these young n1en have unusual minds, but their achievetnent also reflects credit on the stim- ulating teaching of our mathematical de- partment, of which Professor C. F. F. Garis is the head. Fro1n the Union Alun1.ni Monthly. RADIO CLUB. A regular meeting of the Radio Club wa~ held in the electrical laboratory on last Fri- day night. Short talks on radio theory and practice were given by different members. Prof. Upson gave a fairly extensive survey of the theory of alternating current. Due to condenser trouble, the large 2 J(. W. Marconi set is not yet in operation. The small set has been tuned up, however, a.nd communication established with the Universities of Cornell, Pittsburgh and Mich- . 1gan. The weak point of the station just now is the receiving apparatus, but it is expected that a thoroughly up-to-date set will be in- stalled before long. CHEMICAL SOCIETY. The first Chetnical Society n1eeting of the nevv year was held Monday evening, J anu- ary tenth. K. J. Baird '17 spoke on \Asbes- tos and Asbestos Manufacture.\ The ma- terial known as asbestos is a crystalline pre- Cam brian tnineral most abundant in Quebec. The long silky fibres are shipped to Europe and spun and woven into cloth for fireproof- ing purposes. \·There are only minor deposits in the U. S. and here we use asbestos in roof- ing and other building materials. Three new members, J\tiorison, Stevens and Wallace, al11917 men, were elected into the society. PROGRAMS FOR JUNIOR WEEK. The Intea:--fraterni ty Council has been very active for the past few weeks. They have been working in connection with the Junior Pron1 committee and have arranged for a Junior Week program. This will 8erve as a favor to the guests and will be similar to the commencement program. The cover will be of leather and will bear the Union seal. Each f,raternity will be al- lotted one page on which will be listed the names of the guests and chaperones who are visiting at that house. The programs of each house will have different title pages and 'vill have the name of that house to which they are sent, printed on this page. Harold Sammons is in charge of the publi- cation of these favors. COLLEGE CHAMPIONS, 1915. Football ------------------------ Corneil Baseball --------·-------- Brown-Harvard Basketball ------------------------- Yale Rowing -------------------- Cornell- Yale Golf (individual and team) ~=~~====~= Yale Gyn1.nastics ------------------------ Yale I-Tockey ------------- Dartmouth-Harvard Lacrosse -------- Harvard-Johns-Hopkins Swimming ------- Columbia-Yale-D. of P. Tennis (single, doubles)--------- Harvard Track ----------~---------------- Cornell \Vater polo ------------------- Princeton Wrestling ------------------------ Cornell Cross country ------- University of Maine Soccer ---------·-------------- fiaverford Fencing ---------------- Naval Academy

1:8 THE CONCORDIENSIS CRU,SADERS' SONG. Y e races of Christendom, ~rise at the call! Forsake for the battlefield castle and hall! With cross on your right arm and broad- sword in hand Now wrest from the Saracen Christ's Holy Land! Let Scotsman and Norman lay vengeance aside; Let Frank and Bavarian humble their pride ; Venetian and Roman together take vow 'fo fight for the cross upon Calvary's brow. Rise, far-western Saxon ! Forsake your green isle! 'rhe Lion-heart summons each knight to the trial. With eastern Byzantine to Syria's strand 'fo conquer Saladin's dark Musselman band. United in purpose, in heart and in creed, St·rive onward, ye Christians His life-blood has freed, Till J erusalen1's battlements crumble and fall And Bethlehem's snatched from the infidel's thrall! ~rill the Crescent o£ Night fron1 its zenith ye shake ~And the Star o£ the 1\tlorning ascends in its wake; Till the cross on Mount Zion shall sparkle and gleam From the sun's 1natin glint to its last vesper beatn. -f-Ienry Courtenay Fenn, 1916. 1-iamilton Literary Magazine. First Ford Peacite in Sweden: \This r~­ rninds n1e of Fall.\ Seconrl Ditto in Ditto: \How's that?\ First F. P. I. S.: ''The nuts are dropping off.\-'fargum. FAITH. At the close of day Jeanne stands in the door of her fathe,r's humble home gazing pensively across the Seine at the evening sky. J?latning red rises high into the heav- ens above the western horizon--the glorious pageant o£ the sun's departure. Rifts of blue cloud bar at intervals the fiery background. But why the look of sudden pain on the girl's ~entle face; why the clouding o£ the soft brown eyes? vVhat does Jeane see in the sunset? Fier thoughts are with Jacques, her Jacques for a happy forever ,vhen the cruel war is over, but now she fancies that the burning sky is one o£ its terrible battlefields; the blue rifts are powder-smoke and the red-is the life blood of gallant soldiers. Of her Jacques? Her appealing eyes strive to hanish their tears, her breath catches with the painful thought, and she murmurs_, ''Ah, Notre Pere tout-puissant-,.. and as a ready answer to the unfinished prayer there steals through the still air the sound of the chimes from His earthly tern ple in the distant city. It seerns the Master chides her with, \'rhou o£ little faith'' and she recalled to childish trust gives up with joy her fortune to His keeping. Comforted by her thought she looks upon the glory of the heavens once again.. The red has turned to gold which tells her waiting soul of happiness for her and Ja.cquesandin the eyes of men prosperity,and golden streets beyond the pearly gates-the streets that Jeanne and Jacques shall travel hand in hand when He shall will to whon1 she trusts her life entire. Her faith shall keep her and even now faith has transformed her fear to radiant joy and it is faith that makes her sweetly sing: \As thou ,;vilt, Father, let it be tfhroughout t~e whole eternity. l\1ake my will Thine and let me be Forever, Father, praising Thee.'' Go to the Prom !

'THE CONCO·RDIENSIS. 19 PORTRAIT DISCOVERED. Picture of President Wayland Found at Union College. Alumni and friends· of Brown .University are interested in the discovery of another portrait of Francis Wayland, which was re- cently found in an attic of one of the oldest buildings on Union College campus at Sche- nectady, N. Y. \tVith the portrait of Way- land under the accumulation of dust of more than twenty yea1rs, there was found a painting of W. H. Seward, the Secretary of State under Lincoln. The two portraits hung for many years in the rooms of the I~hilomathean Society, a debating club at Union. Wayland '\i\Tas graduated from Union Col- lege in 1813 when 17 years old. For the next three years he studied medicine, but gave up n1edicine to enter Andover Theological Sem- i.na·ry in 1816. In 1829 at the age of 31 he vvas made president of Brown University, serving in this capacity until1855. As far as is known, the only other por- trait of President Wayland as a young man is owned by the Boston church of which he was for some time a pastor. There is a paint- ing of the great Brown president now hang- ing in chapel, but this was painted at a con- siderablv later date.-Brown Daily Herald. J ~ THE VALUE OF LOAFING~ The student loafer,-and who is not at least partially one ?-would do well just at this time to read William James's essay on \Habit.\ Man soon becomes a mere walk- ing bundle of habits, he observes; the char- acter of the habits determines the character of the man. And a habit, acquired in the next few days of applying one's self to study at regular intervals for six hours each -day ,;vill do wonders in removing that probation, or bringing up those grades which must be brought up. Loafing may be a very good thing or a very bad thing. There are three varieties of loafing. There is that which is unadulterated and continuous, and which soon eliminates on.e from membership in the University. There is the kind which is mixed with a lit tle work; it is neither work nor play, but a pale concoction of both. This kills efficiency, contentment, and self-respect. Then there is the valuable sort; it is \scientific loafing.\ It comes in intervals of recuperation and in- spiration between hours of concentrated ef- fort. \fhis m.akes for efficiency; it makes play more enjoyable because earned; and it brings the maximum of happiness. Scientific loafing means also scientific working. And work is not a matter of heroism and of ~re­ pulsive \grinding.\ It is a matter of habit, ·-and of habit not impossible to acquire in these three weeks preceding the m~id-year examinations.-Harvard Crimson. STUDENT MILITARY CAMPS. Report of the Advisory Committee of U ni- versity presidents on the summer n1ilitary instruction camps for students: These camps have now ben in operation for three successive summers. Jn their gro'\vth and admirable management during the past t'iVO summers of 1914 and 1915, they have ;nore than fulfilled the expectations of those endorsing them, based on the first year's experience in the summer of 1913. ·rhe can1ps of 1913 and 1914 were held be- fore the breaking out of the great war abroad, V\ 7 hich has brought into greater prominence than before their value to the nation. v\T e repeat the hearty endorsetnent given in our reports on the camps held in 1913 and 1914. This year they V\rere visited by a nun1ber of the men1bers of our committee - ' and the co1nn1ittee as a whole has given at- tention and thought to their educational use- fulness in the summer season. The students attending are under careful oversight. 1\he excellence of food, sanita- tion, and n1edical care, has been well main-

20 iTHE CONCORDI!NSIS tained. The students have an ideal five weeks' outing_, pleasurable and beneficial to. thet:n; aB.d the instruction, drill, cavalry ex·· ercise, field manoeuvers, field surveying and field \.-vork generally, give them in the con- tinuous five weeks' training, an insight into military matters. They are, in addition to this regular work, given ample time for re- creation and rest. We commend the camps to the authorities and students of the universities and colleges of the count~ry. We believe that the train·- ing and instruction which the students at- tending receive not only emphasize the dan- gers and losses of wars lightly and unpre- paredly entered into, but we also believe that the training given is excellent, and a great benefit, mental and physical, to the students attending. President John G. Hibben, chairman, Princeton University; President A. La-vv- rence Lowell, Harvard University; President A~rthur Twining Hadley, Yale University; President John H. Finley, University of the State of New York and Commissioner of Education; President H. B. Hutchins, Uni- versity of Michigan; President George H. Denny, University of Alabama; Superin- tendent E. W. Nichols, Virginia Military In- stitu.te; President Benjamin Ide Wheeler, University of California; President J. G. Schttrman, Cornell Unive;rsity; President Ed- mund J,. James, University of Illinois ; Chan- cellor J. H. Kirkland, Vanderbilt University; President ~~. C. Humphreys, Stevens In- stitu.te of Technology; President H. A. Gar- field,. \\Villiams College; President Henry Sturgis Drinker, Secretary, Lehigh Univer- sity. In a straw ballot the students of the Uni- versity of Michigan expressed themselves in favo£ of compulsory military training for the country by a vote of 1,032 to 947. \'rhe Last to be Hired, the First to be Fired-the Boozer.\ SENIORWOCKY. (With the usual apologies.) 'Twis zimmer and the gummyglenn, Did clute and clinnick in soler ; All mail en was the fosterbrowns, And the dikemans keleher. Beware the meadebrunet, my son- The francks that catch, the £lams that bite, Beware the meadebrunet and shun The kennethcreble night. l-Ie took his jacobs sword in hand, Long time the churchill foe he sought, So rested he by the hummer tree And stood awhile in thought. And as in hanson thought he stood, The meadebrunet with eyes of flame, Carne gunning through the ste~rnfeld wood, And natfinched as he came. One, t\\\ 7 0! One, two! And through and through, 'the fletcher blade went snicker snack, He left it dead and with its head, lie escalanted back. 1\nd hast thou slain the meade brunet? Come to my arms, my taylor boy! \Ribera santee, jimmauro !\ I-f e vromaned in his joy. ''Tvlas zin1mer and the gummyglenn, Did clute and clinnick in soler, All mallen were the fasterbrowns, And the dikemans keleher. A. M. J., '16. '1 9, discussing vacation: \Helen kissed me when I said good night-but I refused to; \vhat would you do in a case like that?\ Another '19 : \Do the same as you did, you darn liar.:' Football coaching is one of the courses 0ffered in the curriculum of Iowa State.

When yoiu want anything at QUINN'S Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store Just Telephone 1285 Quinn Delivers Free With Hasty Messengers Geo. A. Cassedy Co. Established 1850 Dealers in VICTROLAS, PIANOS, SHEET MUSIC & MUSICAL MERCHANDISE 484-466 State Street, Schenectady, New York. Wally Girling Johnson and Murphy Shoes Kirkpatrick Shoes Room I & II, Middle Section South College Bellinger Paint Co. PAINTS, OILS Dealers in all Kinds of Wax Polishes 212 SO. CENTRE ST. Steet81 Bro& ALBANY, N. Y. Steefel Quality Clothes Reduced 25 Per Cent. Good clothes of the Steefel calibre now cost only three-quarters of what they're worth. You save one-quarter without sacrificing anything. Broad stocks, wide assortments. Good service and full guarantee. JOE. NUSBAUM Schenectady's Leading HATTER AND HABERDASHER 336 STATE STREET. CoUege Men and Young Men Who Se·ek Perfection in fit- Paramount Quality and Correct Style will tlnd their every demand satis- factorily met in our big Men's De- partment devoted to the 8elling of Quality Shoes. HANAN SlJREF:'!.' CW and $8. $4 to $8. DANCING PUJIPS. 8 St~l\z '3 to fG. Patton 6 H allJ SCHENECTADY A..lfD SARATOGA.}

22 THE CONCORDIENSIS THE PESSIMIST. Future! shadowy, dim, unlighted cave! 011 the threshold of your yawning mouth I'm cast, And feel your mist hides naught of change for man save, It may hold more of strife than did the past. Intention's torch burns fitfully in my hand; The arms of evil gnomes outstretching from the dark, Angelic voices entreating me to hark, And offer guidance through a mystic land. Within lie hidden rocks-guide-stones to success; Whether past them blindly I shall go, Upon them rest, or stumble o'er them into chasms bottomless, I pause to S?-Y· This only do I know: An impassable thing that crushes out life'~ breath Lurks somewhere and alone; that, Death. * * * * THE OPTIMIST. I live today. Tomorrow is another day, And yesterday is dead. I live today. For me the future has to be what I would have it seem- A day of. sweet fulfillment of each and every dream. So at this hour I toil and sing, And leave my soul to light the way With always hope that toil will bring JVIe nearer to my perfect day. If taunting tongues should gain my ear And doubt's dark clouds obstruct my view, My soul would cry, 'You must not hear! On! on! My light will guide you through fH Then there is God and love and radiant life And friend and faith! Would these not lend Some sweetness to a bitter strife? And as for Death, even that is not the end. W. M. M., '19. CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY ON VERGE OF CLOSING. Cambridge University, England, for the first time since its foundation nearly one thousand years ago, seems on the verge o.f closing. 1'he medical school is the only de- partment of the University that has enough students to warrant its keeping open. Soph--\Heard the latest Ford joke?\ ~Frosh-\N o, what is it?\ Soph--\Henry ·Ford.\ Over 50,000 students of German Universi- ties have joined their colors and are at the front. The class scrap at Illinois between sopho- mores and freshmen has been abolished, ow- j ng to permanent injuries to two students re- ceived in the last rush. 1916---3 Speed Excelsior Motorcycle $250 1914-2 Speed $200 Skates and Sleds, Bicycles for· Everyone, Skates Sharpened. Cash or Credit BURKE'S 230 So. Centre Street Sole Agent for Henderson Motorcycle

John L. Manny Bro. LEADING TAILORS OF EASTERN NEW YORK. 38 THIRD STREET, TROY, N.Y. \f\le Display 500 Styles of English and Scotch Woolens. 100 References from Prominent Citizens of Schenectady. We rebate to all customers favoring us with patronage their traveling expenses \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1911) WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 1908 1914 E. W. MANDEVILLE, '17 Colleste Repre11entative NEAR BARNEY'S 191S The Wallace Co. \Schenectady's Distinctive Store.\ Our superior buying facilitie!; insure our patro1~s the broadest, most ex- clusive stocks. Quality considered our prices are the tnost reasonable here- abouts. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street ''Look for thf' Cow's Head\ a!XAAOW COLLAR Shows over the coat in back; low sharp. smart curveaway front; good knotandslidespace 2for fJ5c CLUETT, PEABODY .t CO., Inc., .Makers. TROY, N.Y. CLEANLINESS lends you an additional charm. It is al- ways an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. We clean everything that needs clean- ing-all high-grade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. vVe call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. 'Phone 1909- J 440 State Street Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. WHEN 'Phone 4489 IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS

If you are a real genius, keep it to yourself. If you are a real eighteen carat article Folks will find out about you, and You will get your reward. A College Man's Store of the \Square Deal Sort\ We have an i'deal of wh·at a college man's clothing store ough't to be, and we try to live up to it-to do by you as we would have you do by us. Good storekeeping is something more than expending our energy in trying to catch the nimble dollars and cents. When you decide to buy ihere, we on our part resolve that your purchase shall please you so completely that )rou think of this store first when you wish to buy again. You are to feel that we have acted honorably toward you_, and have been truly helpful in value and service. You are to feel that this is a college man's store of the \square deal.\ Exclusive Models-Exclusive Fabrics. Created By Us-For You. SUITS OVERCOATS SIO To $30 StO To $30 YOUR HOLIDAY HAT-A DERBY \The Store of Today-Four Hours From Broadway.\ 455 STATE STREET Seheaectady Art Preaa

