RTS Loss p606:91 527.11 ,134.02 472.38 ,653.62 731.91 702.11 834.47 676.05 21.01 531.53 606.91 527.11 ppear \ 1 . . . , .. ,. ........ ...,.._ .. ,._._ ................... ...,.._ ....... _ • ,., ......... ~-----=-....:..__- _--=-:-· - - - Vol. LVII, No. 21 UNION COLLEGE, SCHEl\TECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1933 PRICE FIVE CENTS Feder~l Legislation! Necessary t.o Curb Wave of Lynchings National Laws and Education Needed to Develop Public Opinion Against Mob Rule CONDEMNS ROLPH Emotional Thinking Approves While Rational Opinion Condemns Governot·'s Act By LESLIE R. LONG, '34 Brooke Hart is brutally murdered at San Jose-the ·battered, nude bodies of Holmes and Thurmond dangle from a limb before the eyes of women and young children- Lloyd Warner, a young negro, as-· saults a negro girl-no prosecution -Lloyd Warner is accused of way- layin.g a 21-year-old white girl and attacking her in a back .alley at St. Joseph-the charred body of War- ner drc!PB from the burning rope into the glowing embers as thous- ands cheer-George Armwood, a young negro, is accused of attack- ing an aged white woman-George Armwood is brutally murdered by a mob at Princess Anne-two al- leged leaders of the mob are taken into custody-mob storms Balti- more jail for 'their release. No, these are not tales of the Roman arena where Christians and criminals were torn limb from limb by savage beasts. Nor are they tales of the Middle Ages when men and women were stretched upon the rack and broken on the wheel It is painfully hard for most of us to believe that these acts were com- mitted by citizens of a twentieth century democracy founded upon principles of life. l·iberty and the pursuit of happiness. That these are deeds of a people who pride themselves on their so-called civil- ization and culture makes the pic- ture all the more ridiculous. Condemns Rolph's Action National opinion i:,; ::>omewhat di- vided over the San Jose lynching. It is divided between those who think with their heads and those who think with something else. Governor James Rolph refuses pro- tection to the accused men. ap- plauds the fiendish display of primi- tive animal lust at San Jose, and issues a blanket pardon to all the murderers. Congratulations, Gov- ernor! You, as the chief executive of California have given the coun- try a most valuable lesson. You have shown that you believe the established system of Jaw and or- der in your state to be nothing but a farcEl---'a pleasant little joke. We who have witnessed your treatment of the stviking fruit pickens this summer, have thought so for some time. You have a law against kid- naping, a l<aw against murder, yes, laws against many anti-social acts. You have courts of justice, police departments, handcuffs and nooses-. Your people have established all the instruments necessary to take care of kidnapers and murderers. But kidnapers, murderers. and you, Governor, know tha;t your laws are powerless. Criminals have no fear of them. You are quite !'ight in saying that the criminals' of the country need to be frightfully scared. They have no fear of your system of law and order. But n<J man cherishes the thought of being (Continued on Page 4) CALENDAR Tonight Hale Club Meeting, Delta Up- silon House, 8 p. m. A. S. C. E. Meeting, Civil En- gineering Bui-lding, 7:45 p. m. Spanish Club meeting, SHU- man Hall, 7:30 .p. m. Class in Joumalh,;m, Student Publications Office, Silliman Hall, 7:30 p. m. Tom~1·row Daily Assembly Speaker, Dr. Ernest M. Ligon, \The Place of Psychology in General Educa- tion.\ Glee Club rehearsal, Hanna: Hall, 3:30 p.m. Medical Aptitude Test, Bailey Hall, Room 300, 4:00 p. m. Thursday Daily Assembly Speaker, Mr. Charles N. Waldron, \Union History\ Alliance Francaise Meeting, Old Chapel, 8:15 p. m. FaJculty Men's meeting, Trophy Room, gymnasium, 8:00 p. m. Friday Daily Assembly, Dr. Elmer A. Tid marsh. Radio Club meeting, Room 22, E. E. Building, 3:30 p. m. Mountebanks Performance, Hanna Hall, 8:30 p. m., \Second Shepl)eJ d's Play\ and \Every- man.\ Psi Upsilon Thanks Union for Courtesy Letter from Executive Council Expresses Appreciation for Hospitality to F1·atemity The following fs a letter which was written by R. Bourke Cor- coran, secretary of the Executive Council of the Psi Upsilon Frater- nity and sent to The Concordiensis expressing the fratemity's appreci- ation for the cooperation received from Union College during its re- cent centennial celebration. The letter follows: We are deeply indebted to Union College for t-he kindly considerations extended to Psi Upsilon during our Centennial Exercises last week. We are in- debted to Dr. Edward Ellery, your Acting President; we are indebted to your Board of Trus- tees; we are indebted to your faculty and last but not least. we are indebted to the student body of Union College. The many manifestations of friendship and hospitality ex- tended to the members of Psi Upsilon who were present for November 22, 23 and 24 are deeply appreciated. and we can think of nothing which was left undone to make our stay a happy one. The modest memorial to our Founders, which we felt privi- leged to present to you as a new \Seat of Stone,\ enabling the present and future student bod- ies to carry on that great old tradition, is but a simple out- ward manifestation of our ap- preciation and esteem for wh,at Union College has done for Psi Upsilon in the hundred years just passed. Psi Upsilon pledges anew to Union College its con- tinued loyalty and desires to place itself now and always. in the future at the service of dear Old Union. -The Executive Council of the Psi Upsilon Fraternity (signed) R. Bourke Corcoran, Secretary. Von Forstmeyer Describes Austrian Court and Experiences During War By CHARLES L. REID, JR. \'i'he Imperial Cout:'t of Austria,\ said Mr. Kurt von Forstmeyer yes- terday, \was one of the most glam- orous since the time of Louis Qua- tolze of France-.\ Mr. voru Forst- meyer, although he was too young at the time actually to take part in the court life, relates many inter- esting anecdotes about it. The Court, he said, was governed by the SP'anish etiquiette, the most formal and rigorous in the world. This etiquette has prevailed since the time of the Holy Roman Em- pire, when Spain and Austria were ruled by the same house, the House of Hapsburg. Francis J<Jseph, continued Mr. von Forstmeyer, was not only every inch the popular conception of an emperor; but was also a ruler -in every sense of the word. He worlted ex:trnordinarily hard, and to ac- complish his prodigious feats of achievement, he imposed on himself a moot spartan and rigorous sched- ule. The Court spent the summers at t)le Hapsburg summer residence, Schonbrunn, and the winters at the Imperial Castle at Vienna. During the winter there were two particu- larly important court functions which the von Forstmeyer family >always attended. One of these functions was called the Ball at Court, the other the Court Ball. The Ball at Court was considered much more important, as only those wh9 were specially invited could attend. The most important members of the nobility were invited. The greatest ceremony and the most formal etiquette prevailed >at this ball, for which the Court Military Band furnished the music. One rather striking illustration of the rigidity of the Court etiquette is told by Mr. von Forstmeyer. \The etiquette was s·o strict that the wife of the heir-apparent of Austria could not attend this ball because she was a member of the simple (Continued on Page 4) Harvard Editorial Mountebanks Will Reviews Larrabee's. Give Faithful Play Article On Colle.ge Of the 15th Century Union ProfesFlor Points Out Advantages of Both Small And Larger Institutions NEITHER IS SUPERIOR Each Has Its Function Which It Is Designed to Fulfill; Student Must Adjust Self The Harvard Alumni Bulletin for November 10 contained the follow- mg editorial entitled \Small Col- leges and Large:\ \Harold A. Larrabee, '16, Ph. D., '25, formerly teacher of philosophy at Harvard, now Professor of Phil- osophy at Union College, is the author of an article in the Sep- tember Harvard Graduates' Maga- zine on \Harvard and the Small College.\ Mr. Lanabee finds him- self drawn into using the language of diplomacy in his discussion of the relations between universities and ~maller institutions. Harvard minor sports teams, he finds, of- ten act as ambassadors of good will; they visit colleges of more· limited resources, and frequently lose gracefully the scheduled con- test. \Like many others, Mr. Larrabee condemns the unequal competition in early season football games be- tween sma:ll colleges and the pow- erful larger institutions which use them as a means of graduated training for the varsity squad. As far, then, as football is concerned, Mr. Larrabee notes with regret, 'Har vard and the small colleges are still on the highly unsatisfactory great power, small-nation basis-a status which breeds misunderstand- ing and resentment both in ath- letics and at Geneva.' Mr. Lan·a- bee should not forget in this con- nP.ction that the smaller colleges are as eager as the larger ones for these early games. The financial guarantees involved· are often suf- ficient to carry the former teams through their season. Oth!'r Problt'niS Salient \But problems more far-re-ach- ing than any which arise from ath- letics are involved in the relations of large colleges and small. Ac- cording to Mr. Larrabee, they form two distinct educational and social environments; each should con- ceive its function and frame its policies with this fact in mind. 'At Harvard College the best under- graduate will usually find some !<'acuity member who will demand far more than he can give . At the small college a more indul- gent atmosphere prevails, and the worst that can. be said for many such institutions is that they per- mit and encourage the admiration of the second-rate.' Yet it must be recognized that the small college possesses its justification and true channel of service. It succeeds in {raining and developing young men who might be lost and at sea in a larger institution. The disadvan- tage of the former, compared with the universities, is simply a disad- vantage in resources. But the re- sources it does possess, wisely hus- banded and administered, entitle it to a defiinite place in the education- al structure of the country.\ In the article referred to in the above editorial, Professor Larrabee concludes as follows: \Both large and small cOt!leges supply artificial environments in which young men may add to their intellectual and physical stature during the four years of rapid growth. In a sense they are greenhouses in which it is hoped to carry on a forcing pro- . cess of. 'growth leading to further growth.' Men as well as plants are of diverse sorts and call for dif- ferent methods of cultivation. No single soil or weather or fertilizer is perfect for a11 of them, and no single variety of college. Large in- stitutions with their superior re- sources and highly charged atmo- sphere can usually do far more than small ones fo1· the rapidly de- veloping student who likes to be left alone to educaate himself. Impersonal Treatment College Players to Use Similar Settings in 'Everyman' and \f'he Second Shepard's Play' SEAT SALE TOMORROW Students May Reserve Seats in Silliman Hall for Friday And ~aturday Performances Widespread interest, including that from other college campuses, has been evinced in the two fif- teenth century plays which the Mountebanlm theater of Union will present Friday and Satur- day nights, December 8 and 9. Letters have been received from several colleges making inquiries concerning bringing \Everyman\ and \The Second Shepherd's Play\ to their institutions, and also to reserve seats for the production at Union this week-end. Tickets for undergraduates and the general public will go on sale tomon ow at the college news bu- J·eau office in Silliman Hall. Sea- son subscribers -patrons-will re- ceive preference. \Everyman\ Is \Vt>ll Rnown Mr. Edward L. Carroll who is be- ginning his sixth season as coach of the Mountebanks will direct the two famous \miracle\ plays. \Every- man\ is by far the more impor·tant of the two .pieces. It has become a part of every significant anthology of the theater, social customs ox philosophy. The Mountebanks will emphasize the sincerity and genius of the unknown author. The col- lege players have undertaken the play with regard for the reverent simplicity of those who fl!st played in it. \The Second Shepherd':; Play,\ a miracle of the Towneley or Wake- field Cycle, is the best example of comic interlude which became, in the fifteenth Cer.tUI y, a forepiece to an older nativity tableau. The Mountebanks are attempting to main,tain the- dramatic inconsisten- cies of this early play by mer,ging farcical charactPrization into the simple worship of the Child. Settings Similar to Original In the production of these Med- iaeval dramas the Mountebanks use the pa·rtially mode-rnizPd text of Professor Clarence Griffin Child in \The Riverside Literatm·e SPriPs.\ The settings are designed in an at- tempt to recall the primitive local- ized scenes of the trade guilds, which produced these plays. \The Second ShephPrd's Play,\ accord- ing!~·. takefl place altrrnat<>ly on a lonely hillside and in Mak's hut. and· then before the manger in Bethlehem. \Everyman\ is staged in. no definite locality except that which may meet the requh·ements or intensify the symbolism of the aHegory. For their second production, the Spring event in March. the Mounte- banks will present Eugene O'Neill's \The Ha.iry Ape,\ and .for the con- ducting production during Junior Junior Prom week-end, May, the college players will present for the first time a mystery \thriller.\ The cast of \Everyman\ consists of Rockwood Jenkins, '37, of Sche- nectadiy: Sidney D. Markman, '34, Frank D. Royla:nce, Jr., '34, S. Ralph Cohen, '37, George P. Has~ ]!:ell, '37, Stewart Eisenberg, '37, Thomas Ord:way, Jr., '34, Harvey P. Groesbeck, '35, John B. Dowling, Jr., '37, Peter D. Walker, '37, Ches- ter Nessel!, '37, Richard W. Angle, '37, Paul Wassman.sdorf, '34, Rey- nold M. Crane, '35, and Ferdinand Helm, Jr., '37. The cast of comedy, \The Sec- 'md Shepherd's Play\ consdsts of John Rooney, Jr., '37, Robert H. Smith, '34, Julius J. Sitney, '34, George W. Stroebel, Jr.. '35, C. William Bennett, '34, Robert J. McManus, '36, and Clarence Clark, '36. The production staff has not yet been announced. ---0---- Pi Gamma Mu Reduces Local Fees From $7 to $3 \Some students thrive on the im- At a: meeting of the Union chap- personal treatment which large ter of Pi Gamma Mu, national hon- nuinbers necessitate. Among the orary sooial science fraternity, yes- worst things that can be said about terday afternoon, the local initia- Harvard is that a student will find tion fee was reduced from seven on its fac1:1lty men who are far dollars to three, on the recommen- more interested ih scholarship than dation of the executive board com- they are· in him. At a sma!l college p'Osed of Dr. W. Lecn Godshall. the teacher who cares everything chanc·ellor; L. Reed Tripp, president about studying and nothing about a:nd Henry Tulloch vice-president. teaching does not last long. Urti- At the next meeting of the na- versities should put the men who tiona! convention, Union delegates really disdain to associate with im- . will agitate for a reduction of the mature minds in research profes- national dties from seven-fifty to (Continued on Page 4) fout• dollars. Crowley and Daley to Speak At Football Banquet Tonight One hundred alumni and students are expected to be present at the Alumni dinner to be held in honor of .the senior members. of the var- sity football squad, tonight at the Mohawk Golf Club. James Crowley, head coach at Fordham University and member of the famous Four Horsemen of Notre Dame, is to be the principal speaker. George Daley, '92, sports editor of -the New ). ork Herald Tribune and former star quarter- back at Union, will be the toast- master. Other speakers will in- clude Professor J. Harold Wittner, Director of Athletics Coach Elliot Hatfield, Captain Austin Fox, and Captain-elect Charles Dain. Mid .. Year Class to Register, Jane 29th Waldron Announces !Require- ments for Admission and Expenses to Mid-Year Men Union will again admit a fresh- man class to the Bachelor of Ar.ts course in January, 1934, Mr. Charles N. Waldron a:nnounces students so admitted must agree to pursue the second semester of the freshman year during the summer. Those completing the work successfully will be admitted to the sophomore class in September. Thus, it is pos- sible for students graduating from High School in January to save a year's time in completing their col- lege work. Requirements for Admission The requirements for admission to the course offered leading to the Bachelor of Arts Degree are aE follows; Four years of English . . . . 3 units One year of History . . . . . . 1 unit Two and one half years of Mathematics .......... 2% units Including: elemenatry algebra intermediate algebra plane geometry Two years of language . . . . 2 units Either Latin, Spanish, German or French One year of Science . . . . . . 1 unit Elective ................. 5¥2 units Total .................. 15 units Cow·st>S of Study The work required for the Bach- elor of A1·ts Degree prepares the candidates to enter Graduate Schools of the Arts, Law, and Medi- cine. The system of electives and ma- jors enables students to prepan for business, pubHc service, teach- ing, journalism, and scientific work. The subjects for the freshman year are required but the sopho- more year is elective and in the last two years three-fifths of the subjects taken are devoted to the field -in which the student desires to major. Expenses A boy who is careful in his ex- penditures can go through Union College on $900 per year. The fix- ed charges are as follows: App!.icaticm Fee ............ $ 5.00 Tuition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 350.00 Student taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30.00 Room rent in the dormi- tories runs, per· year from . . • . . • . . . . • • . . . . • . . • . 80 to 130.00 Good board may be had per week, from . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 to 8.00 Address all inquiries to the Sec- retary, Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. Many B:ooks Ar.e Unsold at Faculty \Vomen's Booksale Biographies, Classics and His tories Lead Opening Day's Sales for Student Fund TEXTBOOKS Olt'FERED English Literature Well Rep- resented With Such Authors As Brandes, W. L. Phelps College students were the first purchasers of books pla:ccd on sale in the Administration Build·ing yes- terday afternoon by the Faculty Woman's Club. The collection, to which many students, faculty mem- bers, and townspeople have con- tributed, includes sketches of Union College drawn by a local artist, text books, modern novels, classics, phonograph records, copies of fam- ous pa:intings, and biographies. Though many books found new own·ers yesterday, there are still on hand many good books. Mrs. H. C. Coffin, chairman of the committee conducting the sa:le, last night ask- ed for biology, German, and French books, as· well as technical diCtion- aries, for which there were many calls yesterday. Most of the books sold yeste-rday were works of serious authors, biographies·, classi<!s, and histories. The tables ar() covered however, with volumE's whos~ titles range from \Scouting for Girls\ to \A History of Canada\ and \A Solid Geometry.\ The collection of non-fiction books is especially large, including journals of travel, poet1y, critical es:iiays, and c.lrama. One section of the display cons•ists of numerou:ii tattered volumes with y-ellowed cov- ers and fine type, auto;{ra.phed with long flourishes of faded ink. A large number of textbooks cov- ering a wide variety of subjects have been turned in. The collec- lion of books on English literature is particularly f'Xtensive, with such authors as William Lyons Phelps and Georg Brandes represented. In as much as contributions are <till coming in, the collection will change from day to day, new book:ii taking the place of those which arc sold. --·-0--- Fredericli A. Knapp Dies After Shooting Himself Frederick A. Knapp, II died Thursday moming at 4:30 o'clock after shooting himself through the heart. Ovenv01k is believed to have caused the act. Kna:pp was a member of Sigma Phi fraternity and was prominent in campus activities. He took an active part in the Christian Asso- ciation, being a membE>r of the Y cabinet. During ·his freshman and sophomore years he sang in the choir. He was the collegl' f<'ncing C'ham- pion, winning the title in h·is soph- omore year. He also was a ho·ckey a.hd a lacrosse player. Knapp, . who was· twent;,r years old, was born in Vancouve-r, B. C. and prepa1·ed for Union at Water- town High School. Funeral services were held Satui'day. Ominous Skies Overshadow Trail As Hikers Climb Mount Wittenberg Heavy clouds had drifted over the high peaks c)f the Catskills Wednesday afternoon and had set- tled above Woodland Valley where four members of the Outing Club, Walter Williams, '36, Robert North, '36, Millard Chapin, '37, and Rus- sell Knox, '3.7 were camped. A steady· drizzle of rain began at sun- down. In a few hours a strong wind rose, and by nine o''Clock the rain had Sl!.opped. Stuffing their knap- sacks with blankets and limited ra- tions, the campers started up the Woodland Valley skii trail on the slopes of Mt. Wittenberg. The trail climbel;l straight up the steep sides of the VaJlley to an un- protected ridge, . windswept and rocky. Only blaclt clouds and the shadowy bulk of Wittenberg were visible. The darkness all around and below gave one an impression of loneliness and extreme height. The wind blew in sudden gusts and sometimes sent heavy trees crashing to the ground. Just be- fore midnight the moon appeared overhead a-nd lighted up the whole mountain. The hikers• were climb- ing over a shoulder within sight of the peak when the trail became so steep and rocky that it seemed best to stop until morning. Find- ing a level spot sheltered by an overhanging boulder, the climbers cleared away a circular spot in the snow, covered it with pine boughs, and spread out their blankets. in the early morning before breakfast they covered the last half mile to the top. Although a haze cut off any distant view, the Cats- kills were clearly visible on all sides, while the Ashokan Resevoir and the Hudson Valley were dis- tinguishable. The descent, because of the slip- pery trail, was almost as difficult as the climb. By noon, however, the climbers were gaU~ered about a fire in Woodland Valley, consuming vast quantities of rice. After a hurried lunch, the party broke up, each member starting for his re- spective home with visions of Thanksgiving turkey.

/'' ., ~· ·~ \ ,, ,•, ' Two • trusts \A C'ausa Persa Parulo Assai\ FOUNDED 1876 Affiliated With Pi Delta Epsilon ~.s.sociatcd.,, @~t.~.int\ ~rtss ': J9J) \,NATiONA~V.I:R~G_!) 1934 = The official newspa·per of the students of '£!nion College. Published Tuesdays and Ffld~ys throughout the college year, except durmg Christmas and spring zecesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Clas~ Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Address all business communications to Arthur J. Katzberg, Kappa Nu House, Union ~oll.ege, Schenectady, N. Y. .All other commumcauons to George R. Cory, J1·., Psi Upsllon House, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD George R. Cory, Jr .............. Editor-in-Chief Arthm· J. Katzberg .......... Business Manager c William Huntley ........... Managing Editor Robert H. Smith .................. News Editor Arnold J. Friedman ...••.•.•••.•. Sports Ed~ tor Prince E. Oleson ................ Feature Ed1tor M01 ton C. Stewart ........ Circulation Manager C. Hathaway M. Berger JUNIOR BOARD D. Moulton J. Woolman R. Diamond Issue Edito1· ....... Donald B. 1\Ioulton NO EXCUSE FOR IT In looking over the December calendar we note that good old Pi Delta Epsilon, national honorary j oumalistic f1·aternity, is not sched- uled to meet this month. There should be a meeting of this group-just one, and the purpose of the meeting should be to abolish it, if enough of the \brothers\ can be per- suaded to attend. l\lost of the Senior Bomd of The Concor- diensis are membet·s of this o1·ganization. In fact this paper has practically supported the local chapter fo1· a number of years. This year members of the Junior Doard have been advised in no uncertain terms not to join when thev are \elected.\ With this main source of. support gone, it would seem that the1·e is nothing for the local gl'Onp to do but fold up. We know just exactly what Pi Delta Epsi- lon has done in ·;he past th1·ee years, and the record is nothing to boast about. In the first place, new memiJers h<lVC been elected every year to the tune of fifteen dol- lars initiation fee. For this sum they get a key and a dinner. Last :vear a committee racked its brains trying t~ find ::>omethinf!· that the organiza- tion could do that \Vould justify its existence. After several nwetings, the committee gave up. If Union College did not have a Publica- tions Board, there would be definite purpose for Pi Delta Epsilon, but ,,,.e have such a body which governs all our publications very effec- tively. Therefore, Pi Delta Epsilon is super- fluous. The only people who appreciate this society at Union are the officers of the national organization. l t would not be fair to say that these \rulers\ live off the society, but nothing- hut :1 little key ever comes !Jack for the money that i~ sent to the national head- quarters. It is a great graft for somebody, and anyone ·who joins this society hen• in the future can be truthfully called one of those things that are \bom every minute.\ HALF WAY It is gratifying to hear that the powers that be in Pi Gamma l\Iu, national honorary social science fraternity, are taking steps to reduce the exol'bitant initiation fees that are required at pre::>ent. If the Union delegates cannot make the national organization re- duce its fee, the local chapter might better withdraw from the national fmternity. Per- haps such a step would be better in the long run for all concerned. The avowed purpose of the society here is to discuss current social problems. Is it THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1933 necessary to pcty somebody out in Peoria or ~~;·· Kansas or whe1·eve1· the headquarters are, ·.I F A R R A G Q several dollars for this pl'ivilege? The Class- ical Club, which welcornes all who are inter- I!==;;;;;;;======;;;;;;;============;;;-===;;;; MUSIC by Ran'kine Hinman Thanksg.iving-sa:cred to culinary and several wen~ quite indis- ested to attend its discussions 1·equires no arts-tm.,ed 'by dispensers or ca- tinct. initiation fee or dues. While the Hale Club .tha:ctic. J:<'tiday mommg wu.; most ''I think I could do better is not open to an, nevertheless, the mernbets tilstressjng: we spenL two goou don't send n .vevrly check to the \Grand nouts t.ymg to untangle :;tomacn · ·muscles. '1 nere'::; a wo1d ror our Treasurer.\ The members of the local social science society have done only a half-way job. They should forget about the key, which, by the vvay, is five dollars extra, and affiliation with the national organization. Perhaps there is an advantage to belonging to the national society but as yet, we have been una:ule to find out what it is. ,:;o ... t - pot cine, or .h.tt. ~omethmg * * after dc·..;sert,\ she ::)Uid. \vrth this exlubition, se1•eral othe1s <.uound the La.bie ex- pn·:.;sed tlwir PagL'lnes::; to dis- play the.i1· powe1 b, One gt·nue- man burped liuou,;h · :tvhuy Had a Little Lamb.'' Another buqJed t rom one thtough bU. 'l'he Rovt·r didn't t·nter· the competlt,on. Be wus b;.ought up m the old sehoul. l-le sat their quietly, euting a lernon sherbet and lllaiil!l~ 1nen tul note,; for· Jut urc u\e• I ~;;;;~~;;~~=-~ We were extt·emely .disappointed . with Attillio Baggiot e's concert in Albany last weeK, e::;pecially since ; we had anticipated it so eagerly In V'iew of his splendid perro1mance .1. year ago. His soft tones were · ~till smooth and pure, reminiscent · or an earliet· McCol'mack; his stage prescence was agreeable if not as c•xhilira ting as la:;t year; faultless enunciation still di.;tmguished him :rom other tenors, but otherwise we <.]Ould hardly rea:Hze .he was the Baggime we had heard before. A FINAL TRIBUTE F1 om Pr ofe,;;;oJ· Lar z.abeo':; e!e:..- tic bulletin-board \Wash 'burn 12), we snatched a gem on the tine art of burping. The author (Boston Herald's Roving Reporter) laments the frowsty imrtations in private Hfe of the aesthetically satisfying IJurp of the pwfessional. He cites the \masterful full-throated 'burp- mg of Lionel Barrymore in his in- terpretation of 'Rasputin and the J:Gmpress' \ and praises WaHace Beery's gut-rumblings in \Tugboat Annie\. The efforts of Mr. Beery, however, lack \the tone, volume and abandon of Lionel Barrymore.\ Charles Laughton is placed high fol' his English interpretation, \a clear tenor 'burp; brief, but re,;onant\. We feel for the Roving Repot ter in We tlll(e greut pleasure in an- nounc.ing tlw t the: e are only eleven and one-half \11 1 \ J b<:hool days un- til Ch1 bt1nus ree~;,:;, In numbers like Cesti's Aria, \Teach Me to Die,\ he not only failed to pr~Jduce the volume and grandeur which we know his voice po.':lsesses but forced his upper r:eg- .ster with obvious effot t. Our su- preme disappointment was in the \!most lethar·gic indifference which suppressed lus ordinarily vibrant personality. Lyric, lightly tripping works like Weingartner's \Liebes- fe:ier\ were beautifully done, and ,he artist roused himself to a strong :f not noble rendition of Handel':; magmficent \Total Eclipse\ Aria from \Samson\ but \Walte1·'s Prize Song\ was lifeless. hh; aversion to amateur output, es- This year's dinner has been set for tonight peciaHy when we read of one un- fortunate experience that he re- at the Mohawk Golf Club. Other unde1·- .ates. One of Union's worth while traditions is one in which the Schenectady Alumni Associa- tion takes the principal role. Whether the football team be good, bad or indifferent, that body plays host once a yem· to the .sen- iors on the squad at a dinner. graduates who Jesire to hear the inter.esting speakers who have been secured for the occa- sion, may Httend the dinner at the nominal fee of one dollat' a person. Those students who have already purchased tickets ma,v be assured of getting some fine points on the art of playing football from such eminent authorities as George Daley, '92, sports edi- tor of the New York Herald Tribune and James Crowley, head football conch at Ford- ham university and erstwhile memuer of Notre Dame's famous Four Horsemen. He was dining out with com- parative strangers. Suddenly the girl at hi::; left touched his arm. ''I'll bet you burp,\ she re- marked. The Rover blushed. \I can g~t to M,\ she con- tinued. \Indeed said the Rover. \But my brother can go through. the whole alphabet on one burp. He's wonderful,\ she added. \Interesting murmured the Rover. \Would you like to hear me go to M ?\ she asked. The Rov- er said nothing would give him more pleasure. The lady burped to M. It was not well dune. The letters were run togethet· * * A friend u'i uu:s attended the per- formance of \The G. een Bay T.<:e' which Joan Craw.o•d and J:o'n1nchot Tone chanct·tl lo attend. Between the acts 8aint.Joan occns·ionPd a lit tie dramu all b}· hen;elf; :;lie didn't do anything, bLlt plenty happened. Autog1·a1'h llc•nJ, the I! lend count- ed seventy-eight hi.' IOJ e her aisle was l'eally clogged; it stayea cloggecl lor u lung, long time. 'l'h~ oppusice aisie wa~ JarumeJ Wlth stare-cat:; who an<t~omized thL great C!LIW~orcl<~.o mt11nate1y as tilt available upeza gl,,e~ woulcl pel- mit. The ;:,eeonu b:lleuny pout'eu mto the loge\ tn ,,cz utinize f10rr. another angJe. The up-cut tain or. Act II was some tlrd ty nunute::; be· hind HChE'duh•. \-, ott.t hahP! Ana wotta lot of bt·<><-w.b! \We conies~ our enjoyment of hPr iat1'st \l) mg Lady\ J. Zimme: mn n 1 crninds u,;: \The n1o1 E\ you ...:pp:, k of ~.:o~11 M:-.If, tht more you are llkeJy to iie.\ * * VVe point w.th c·mHiuerable sur- pl'ise to the r enai.<sance of the ldol. The la\l i> .ue was the mo.>t readable thing WP'\'e .<ec·n in ycar·s And .;ome V< 'Y <-:t-l<'ful :;cbolarship i:o containrd thPr<':n. \Ve'rp waiting to S(le if thf• lir:->t n1tn1b£·r wa~ an aC'ciclc·nt. J P. n. In the Mail I • Con em diensis Lt a II. j,; Lt•t t •·r t ha r I I a paper whose dl!d emzwuk L laxity! • Jet•onH 11 S. I:nspn '35. 1.!..;;;;==========:;.!] -- . 0 -- -- \SLIPSHOD RAVINGS\ f\;O\'l'Illber ~7, 1~33 Editor, Cuncor dit·n,t~. There were redeeming portions on the pwgr am, but for those who had heard Mr. Ba:ggiore before the cvenmg could be enjoyed only if they forgot the far 'better work of which he is capable. Don Cossaclu; Unusual entertainment is prom- tsed in the appearance tomorrow night o.f the Don Cossacks Russian Mule Chorus, wh:ch will sing be- • ore the Civic Music AssociatiOn at ~:30 o'clock in the RKO-Plaza [heater. Their program includes a wide range of religious ·music, .olk and gyptiy tunes, and military ~ongs and dances, among- them the famous \Cossack Song\ with its wild shouts. and whi::;tling, sonorous bursts of tone mingled with gun ,;hots. 'i'lol('imilwwsky's Symphony No. 4 There is always a unique pleasure m the first heat·ing of a master- piece of compo::;ition. In each sub- dequent pertoz mance we observe clements we had completely missed before. Each time the work means more to us, 'but we never again can have the joy of watching it unfold without the slightest knowledge of what is C'oming next. Last week we ha.d that exper- ience in listening for the first time to Tbchuikowsky's Fourth Sym- phony, a compo:;ition so different ft om the familiar Fifth and 'I 'athetique\ Symphonies that it introduces an entirely different Tschaikowsky, a Tschaikowsky full uf humor and lyric expression, a f.och:.dkowsky who suggest,; some- what th~ BeethovE'n or the \Pas- lOla!\ Symphony. That so few undergarduates have signi- fied their intentions of going to the dinner is far from a fitting tribute to those stalwarts who devoted a latge pot-tion of their time for two and one half months to the advancement of l 1 nion's renown in athletic circles. Al- though the team did not have a very im- pressive record, it is not through any fault of the players nor the coaches. Ce!'tainly they were in the1·e trying every day of the season and nothing more could be expected of them. Time and again since the opening of the college yem in September there have IJeen thwsts at regaining a lost spirit. A climax was reached at the pep rally on the eve of the rrochester gmne. A goodly llUlllUCl' of students showed up before the team's depar- ture fol' Hamilton. Ev.erything seemed to point at that time to a renewed vigor among the students of Union College. .Sill mum }t:Jll, L nwn Culle,.;c, fo the Editor of the :;chencctady, N. 'i. II 11 ._.onuordiensis: Dear Sir; Week's Best Editorial ln humorously criticising the 1 read with a go<><l <h•a:l of en- ohp-::;hod. ravmgs of oue or our thu.-iusrn, the a 1tzcle in yuur col· ~============~i .:uJunuu~ts, tne Smnn College un!ll, entitled \Ctay ~unsPt,\ anL •• ee><Jy nas .Ia!~ bate .the glallllg thv Lulllll.cEt UJJult 11 1 n tile tu!luw yUt!lllllY wtlrch 1s mannest m the lmg 1 .,,.;ue. 1 wa~ ;.;!.ttl to nutc that cd.ltonals of the Con cot diensis. In m\tead ,,f bl'ing mt•t ,.·J~ thl' t vpe ot Ulea: attempt~ .to nwuld studtmt AI rui:.;tice Day hnl;u111 thn.t ti~uall~ opmwn, the ~uttuts hav\ letlot tell appeal;;, the !ll ttcle showeLl sur 11 , to un1ca:ooneu . hru.ang-ues .wnrt •.• cal tnuught on tltt: \ubjed. 1-er· a1 e charactenstrc of .a tablmd, ~:mt- haps more ar tides wtrtlen in the ,!lOU•l!l!>S ~d yellow JOUrll:als .. 1 hey :;arne vein, and with equal fotce .ta.ve saCIII1ceC1 taste 111 y1eldmg to would a1ouse the vouth of Alllc>t· emotional 1antings. Jca 1rom the apat!iy or feeling oi A slight reversal of form can ea.sily im- pede all previous progress. If a small turn- out of students tonight is an indication of a backwm•d step in the revival of spirit here, hasty steps will have to be taken in the right direction before the winter spo1·ts schedule gets under way. A PLEASANT HALF HOUR One cannot help feeling that the glmy wrth which tney r·egard war. editori~ls in the Concor<11ensis are Many people advance the m .u u~stud1ed; created upon the spur .uent that t!wsc who go to V:.a. ot .the moment; ?ar~Jess ettorts <!1 .ll e heiOes, whil<> those who stu) wnter~ whose pn~crple v1rt~e Is nome a1e co\;a 1 us. Lut aze they'? ve~ bostty. tiut. this 1s not so. Our 1 believe that the ones who are editors an~ wrtters are as capable , £'ally conscicmtiou~ object 01 s _ ~d matt;tre as. , thos~ who ha~e those who a1e willing to stand UJ.. tilled the1r pos1t10ns m past ycms. ror what they bPI:eve to be rici\ht The fault ot the pres.ent edttonal are just as brave, if not braver, staff, however, hes m 1ts unw1!Hng- than those who actually fig'ht on ness to devote a reaso~able am~mnt tbe field of battle. Let us examine or concentratiOn to 1ts wr1tmgs. their case· Rather than plan its articles, it r e- · produces those superficial thought;, It takes strength of chatacte·r which emerge from the fringe of anti courage to resist the swing its mind. 1t desires effect, 'but it and rythm of a military band, does not study the means of ob- the enthusiasm of tlte crowd, and taining its effect. tho tales of horl'or in the news- It is not our desire to attack the pape!·s that a! ou,;e hatred of the If you want to spend a pleasant half hour editors. Rather it is our purpose enemy. to recall to their minds the stand- They az e called cowards by the any time this Week, just j OUl'ney OVer to the ards which they undertook to ful· rest of :hE' I co pie. Aftt:r the war d · fill when they first assumed their is over, their fellow citizrn,; point reception room in the A mimstration Build- duties. They have lost sight or them out to others as \men who ing and leisurely browse around amongst a their original intention. Instead were afraid to go to war.\ of fGstering accuracy, they have Perhap.; mo~t <•f theit flienth; most interesting collection of books on sale allowed themselves to 'become refuse to have anything to do with under the auspices of the Faculty V\Toman's blinded by that vague light which them, and they lose any social they term \student opinion.\ The ::;tanding they may have had. Club. CGncordiensis has become; perhaps 'l'hey may be imprisoned by the unwittingly, an agent for student government for the duration of As a result of hard work by the members and faculty propaganda. Althougr. the war. professing to mirror student activ- Most of us would be willing to of the club, the collection is not only la1·ge ities, it has in reality become die for some great cause, but how l t I f d l 't 0 fi d b k highly partisan. Usually only one many of us would be willing t< JU a SO 0. goo qua 1 y. ne can 111 00 S' side of the argument is found in live the rest of our lives as social to satisfy almost any need, whether it be the Concordiensis. outcasts, dele,;lld by our friends, · 1 f The articles which are supposed even though we knew that we fiction, supp ementary reading, or re erence to indicate the current of student were doing what was right? Any- work. Some of the Looks, of little appeal to thought are childish. It is impos- one who is willing to undergo. dif- sible to obtain sensible ideas on a ficulties like these for what he be- college studentR, WOUld make a SUitable question by quizzing unprepared lieves to be light, anu can face the Christmas present for some other person. students as they rush from one future unafraid, has courage! class to another. It would be more I wonder how the students of effective if a series of articles by Union College regard war. After Prices of the books are low. Some used capable students were printed. By all, there is a possib1.Jity that some textbooks and \best sellers\ may be obtained affording time to plan attacks m of them might have to mal'e the defenses of a topic, the Concordi- decision as to whether they would for less than a twentieth of the usual price. ensis would really achieve· its de- fight or not. I know that some of sire. Only by that means can it them believe that war is wrong Don't miss this opportunity to examine an obtain a rational student opinion. but do they have the courage oi 1 ]1 t . f b k t 'b t d b 'We real1'ze that the criticism, their convictions? In other words unusua co ec 10n 0 oo S con r1 U e · Y which we have offered here, is if there was ruwther war, woulct f lt t d t d f . d f u . hi hl d t t' rt b th' they fight: or would they have acu ·y, S U en S, an l'Ien S 0 nron, many g Y es rue we. •· was Y 15 enough faith in their own behalfs f h k A d d 't h 't t t means that we hoped to awaken 0 W Oln YOU now. n on eSI a e 0 the editors from their lethargy, t< to openly declare themselves c-p spend a dime or a quarter for one that ap-· stimulate them to reasoned editror posed to war, and refmce to fight? ials rather than to amateur at- Why not canvass the campus and peals to you, for the profits go to the Student tempts at guiding the student find the consensus of opinion? L F d mind. By exercising more care Very truly yours, oan un · they can conquer inaccuracy. No Robert B. Bussen '37. \:FTI•;R 'J!'HJ<.: 1\-IOVIES-WHERE'! \Whme may I go after a date at the movies?\ is the query of many 'ocially inclinl'd University of Vel- mont studPnts. To a Student Union building·: No, for there is none at Ver·mont. In fact, there is prac- tically no place to go after the movies except to some of the public 1estaurants OJ' back to the dormi- tory or domicle of the young lau.Y. Several students voiced their opimon on thi::; very matter last 1 uesday even'ing at the Student .Senate meeting, and the condition was found entirely as described. ·•unwelcome chaperonage,\ \bright lights,\ \Countr·y Club\ were fte- quenUy used in the C{)Urse of the discussion. It seemed to be the general consensus of opinion, that 1f Vermont students could not have a Student Union building, the col- lege should provide and sanction a room or rooms for fellows and girls to meet each other, talk with each other, play cards with each other, dance with each other and generally entertain each other, and do so without having to worry about chaperonage. A suitable place for any enter- pri,;e of this sort, it was agreed, would of necessity have to be in the center o·f college circles and suitable enough in type to. success- fully cany out the idea. Many representatives of the senate rec- ommended the use of the Vermont- ers' Club house on SUl!!rnit Street as a fitting (the best available) pl~ce to attempt the informal gath- enngs. One of the chief arguments pre- sented in favor of the common meeting ground was the inevitable fostering of school spirit which would follow. In this manner • a person might meet and talk with his or her colleg-e mates in a. more intimate fashion than the mere \hello\ on the campus, and 1 during the course ?f the year, mzght be- come acquamted with a greater number of college students. For, it was argued, ''one of the major reasons school spirit lags is the fact that so few people really be- come acquainted with each other,\ Believing such an institution would not only save college stu- dents some money in the long run, 'but also promote fellowship and more worthwhile acquaintancf)s. Student Senate has referred. the matter to the student body at lax ne and desires questions, comments ~·eco~mertdations and student opin~ wn m regard .to the n1atter. ·The Cynk would be only too glad to re- ceive any communications either pro or con on the subjec.t. -Xhe Vermont Cy.ute, '] ' I I I I I: l c

I pointed in since in were stage not as him we the Aria, only and voice r•eg- su- in the which rant and strong del'::; Aria Prize who the if ork of prom- be- at the th its gun <I sub- bserve can of exper- time Sym- and it full ·a some- \ Pat::- at vel- at prac- the public lau.Y. their · last udent ribed. fle- the the that have col- and with each in and rec- able) pre- table er•a with mete be- For, the be- her.u stu- run, and the ents, The re- THE CONCORDIENSTS, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1933 Three Dutchmen Quintet To 0 pen Saturday · Size of the Lacrosse Aydelotte Is Slated For A. S. C. E. MEETING Sport Slides Fl .el..l' I' s ·Changed Eastern Lawn Tennis Post John s. Irish, '31, will speak on U the subject \Highways\ before the regular meeting of the Union chap- ---- NEW YORK, Dec. 2.--Russell ter of the American Society of Civil Fil·st Game to Be Played at Middlebury; Players Still Fighting for Starting Berths New Offside Rule Is Adopted B. Kingman of Orange, N. J., is Engineers nt 7:45 tonight in the Slat d to U C d H I b Ward Civil Engineering Building. by By Intercollegiate I.acrosse e · s c ee · · 0 corn e · as president of t:he Eastern Lawn --;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ Assn. in Annual Meeting Tennis Association, th€ official ii CHARLES' Formerly ED'S ___ nominations, made pubLic yester- By ~'IILTON H. BERGER Entering its fina,l week o( prac-· tice before the first game of the· season Saturday at Middlebury, the v&rsity basketball squad is begin- Arnold J. Friedma,n ning to bear a resemblance to the Further survey of the records of pa:;t Union College fi1otball teams At the fifty-first annual meeting of the United State>:: Intercollegiate Lacro3s€ Association held last week-end in New York ·City, two ('hangc>s were made in the collegiate lacro,;se game as played ·by the major college tens in the United States. Union is a member of this \·\' 'ociation and i:o a.f:llectcd 'by these new rules. smoothly functioning unit which reveal that Union ·once played Manhattan Cc;lle~,;c of New York here in Coach Nels Nitchman is planning Schenectady. That was a modern game, being pl'ayed only five years to develop. No definite flrst team The mo:;t drast:ic change in the ago, in 1928. Manhattan's Green won, 27 to 0. That game was the only rules wil'l enlarge the playing field has been selected, there being two t' th t t d b h' h for lacrosse ft·om eighty to ninety or thvee equally promising men for . 1me · e wo me, an was efore Manhattan began thei-r drive for 1g - yards in length and sixty yards in each position. 'powered, professionalized teams with Meehan as coach. About tw~nty- width, minimizing crowding among Jn the center ·berth, there are f U . the ten players on each side. A new our years ago ruon began a series with the Massachusetts \Aggies offside rule also was adopted. four candidates·, Joe Milano, Clem but the series was shmt-Iived. The first game Pnded in a 6 to 6 tie. In Henceforth for an attacking player Smith, Mike Priznar, and Van to be \on-::;ide\ it will be necessary Waldron. Milano, the scintillating 1912 they again played a tie, this one being scmeles,;. The last game of for three defende1s to be between star of last year's frosh team is the the three game series was in 1913 when Massachustts won 20 to 0. That him and the- opposing goal when he receives a pass. Formerly two de- pest bet for the pivot position. He is anothr series Union lost. The New Jcr>('y Athlt·tic Club traveled up fensemen only were necessary to is consistent in getting the jump, to Albany in 1897, met Union College's football team, defeated them 16 constitute legality of play. has a fine shooting eye, and dis- · Lally Trophy to 4, and never met them again. In 1897 that probabl,. was a feature plays a ~>mooth floor game. AI- • The convention also adopted a tt d d th d 'II game since the visitors had come all the way from Jersry to play. proposal for a picked team from though he has a en e e rt the United States Intercollegiate s·essiori·s for only a week the rangy Lacrosse Association to visit Can- sophomore has rounded Into shape New York University was a real Union rival from l!JOl until ada next year to engage a picked quickly a:n:d is fitting into Coach recently. The Viole.t was nevt:'r the ~how team Chick ~leehan made t£'am of Canadian all-stars for the Nitchman's style of play. Lrdly trophy emblematic of ama- out (If th-em when he took ovet• the reigns about 6 years ago. They teur lacro~.se supremacy. This pe·r- Forwaa·d Candidates Equal petual challenge trophy, which ai- On the forward line. there is no were just another small college team, hut when niPehan took charge ready has been won by John Hop- dearth of able candidatoo. Sam he developed the major team that N. Y. U, is today. But that has ltins nnd St. Johns, Annapolis, next Jackson, Ray McDowell, Jack Gain yC'ar will be in competition for the nothing to do with the faet that N. Y. U. was once a Union rival. four·tll t1'me Heretofo1·e t on and Jiggs Rotunda·, are fairly · s r g .evenly matched in the bid for these The first game beh.•·een the two was played in 1!:01, and ended in teams have been kept intact for the two positions.. Jackqon and Me- international games. Dowell, because of thei·r work on an 11 to H tie. In 1902 the Violet cuptm·!:\d an 18 to 0 win, but the Delegate,; to the convention were last year's varsity, have a slight following year Union t•etaliaterl with an 11 to o \ktury. {;nion again P~'<'~rnt from twenty-four members edge in the choice. Jackson has of the as::;ociation including: Army, had a little difficulty in changing repeated in 1904, winning 21 to 0. ThP l!ltl5 gamP WPnt to New Brown, c. c. N. Y., Cornell, Dart- his individual style o.f ball pla,ying York, ll to 0. In 1907 N. Y. U. again won, 12 to 7. The 1908 game mouth, Harvard, Hobart, Johns to fit the dernand·s of the Garnet Hopkins, Lehigh, Maryland, M. I. hoop mentor, but after intensive in New York City was a tie, 5 to 5, but the n<'xt y('ar when Union T., Navy, N. Y. U., Penn State, practice he is finally adapting hi:m- traveled down the Hudson th('y were overwlwlnwd by a 47 to 0 Prinreton, Rutgers, St. Johns, Stev- self .to the fast b··e;;.king safe- · ens, Swarthmore, Union, Syracuse, h t . d h ld fit · 1 score. The tei'Tible defeat probably humb!Pd {Inion <'onsidemhly, as Western M-ar·yland and Yale. s oo m.g game an s ou mce Y Coach 'William Harkness of the into the lineup. the series was discontinued. It was resumed, howeY£'1', in 1914, Union varsity lacrosse team repre- Ray McDowell, shifty and a dan- when the Garnet traveled to New York to beat the Viol('t 9 to 0. ::;ented Union. gerous shot at close quarters, may -================. be il, the other fol'ward berth. In New York won the 1915 game 10 to 0, and in 1916 thP New Yorke1·s 1 recent practice sessiorus the scrappy traveled to Schenect;ady to beat the Garnrt 13 to 0. That was the junior has shown some of the fine basketball of which he is capable year Union beat Columbia. Retul'lling aguin to N1•w Ym·k City in and should be in excellent condition the 1917 editiQ.n, the teams playt'd a scort>hss t.it•. N. Y. U. wno ill for the first fray. Jiggs Rotunda . is a man not to be o·verlooked when 1919, 17 to 6, but m 1920 Union managed to g11in a !J to 7 win. Th!\ selections arc made for starting 1924 garne was a 6 to 6 tit•, but Union lo~t tht• ll12.; dassi<', 12 to 3. play!'rR. If he does not occupy a place in the backcourt, Jig-gs may The last game of the serh·s wus playt>d in Schen<·<'tady, and t;nfon easily supplant either of the first lost, 14 to 3. N. Y. U. holds nine \·ictor<\is Union four, with full!' two choices. A reversion to his form of two years ago has placed ties. the diminutive forwa:rd in a favor- able light as one of those to be on the floor when the opening whi..sile blows Saturday. Jack Gain is the possessor of an extremely accurate shooting eye but has been handi- capped becaue.>s his classes prevent him froin attending several drill sessions. For the gu'1rd posis there a.re several potential occupants, Cap- tain Puree Dow, Jack Moffett, Ralph Semerad, and Dave Cadwall- ader. Captain Dow is virtually a:s- sure-d o-f starting becaus·e of his experienc·e and dependa.bility. Jack Moffett is expected to .be his run- ning mate. Semerad should pro- vide relief for those two, with Cad- wallader also on reserve. [::::::::~,~~~~:::::~;~]~ Results Last Night Theta Delta Chi, 16; Kappa 14. Alpha Delta Phi, 16; Delta Pi Nu, 8, Phi Gamma Delta, 20; Pi Delta Theta:, 15. Schedule Tanight-7:30, Phi Sigma Kappa vs. Psi Upsilon. 8:30, Beta Theta Pi v,;. Kappa Alpha. Wednesday-7:30, Sigma Chi vs. Lambda Chi Alpha. 8:30, Theta Nu Epsilon vs. Phi Gamma Delta. ---0--- :MADE MINOR SPORTS This week the University of Rochester, following its policy of increas.ing its intercollegiate ath- letic scope, made both golf and ten- nis minor sports, instead of the usual intramural activities it ha:d carried on in these two sports. CORRECTION Due to a.n error appearing in the intramural basketball sched- ule the following correction is called to the attention of those concerned: The Kappa Alpha-Delta Pi Nu basketball game and the Theta Delta Chi-Phi Sigma Ka,ppa game will be played on Decem- ber 13th at 7:30 p. m. and 8:30 p. m. respectively. The original schedule called for their meeting on D€Clember 12th but this being the night of the Varsity-Clarkson Tech game a change was necessary. Union played Princeton Univ('rsity once, and t hut was in 1895. Th( Tiger won that contest, 22 to 0. ThesQ two teams were scheduled for an 1897 game, but it wa.s cancelled. RhodP Island State College cam<' to Schenectady twice to meet Union. The fir,;t game was played in 1915. Union won on a field goal, 3 to 0. The Rhode Islanders returned again in 1920 to play a 7 to 7 tie with the Garnet. The Ridgefield Ath- letic Club of Albany was played ten times between 1887 and 1897, but not in successive years. The fu st t hH·e games of the oerie::; wNe played in Albany, two in 1887 and one in 1888, and Union lost the three. The scores were 8 to 4, 12 to 0, and 28 to 6. A 1 rtw n gamr was played in 1888 in Sch~nectady, and again the Ridgefield boy,; Wl'le viduriuu:;, thi::; time by an 18 to 6 score. Two game~ were pla.~·,·J in lSS!l, the li1~t one at Albany climaxing the series, for Ridgefield won 60 to 0. But the Garnet again came back in that year, only to lose 12 to 0. In 1890 the Albany boys again won by an overwhelmingscore, this one being 51 to 0. By that time Union began to realize that this Ridgefield Club was a little better than they thought they were, so the series was disconttn- ued. In 1893, figuring that Union l:ad a different team, and the Ridge- field boys may be a Iittle older, they again playct!, and this time Union won 24 to 0, Eager to revenge this stunning blow, the Albany eleven returned to Schenectady the following year, but was again white- washed, Union scoring 22 points. A final game was staged in 1897 and Union won 6 to 4. In the ten game series Union won three and lost seven, Mor·e ancient Union football results will follow in the future. ROSENDALE FLOWER S H 0 P Schenectady's. Telegraphic Floris-t Flowers of Quality 124 Jay Street Phone 4-0540 Opp. City Hall THE GAZETTE PRESS PRINTERS il LL~~~~~~?r~E~~RE~f ill fi{::m:m::ms:m:::m:::=::::m::m:::::::::m:::::::m::::::::mm:m:::::::::m:m:::::::::::::::::::::::::::m:::m::::::m~~i THE BEACON GRILL Serving Delicicus Sandwiches Fried Oysters and Clams On the Hlilf Shell 756 ALBANY ST.REET \On the Crest of the Hill\ We Have the Finest DE LUXE MOTOR COACHES To be had in the Capitol District BE CONVINCED-CALL G. A. WELCOME & SON l'hone 4-84l4 1171 Union St. THE ACME HOUSE LINEN SUPPLY CO., Inc. Rents Linen for all Occasions (You pay for Laundry Work only) 1030 BARRET ST. Phone 4-9310 Miss r roy, Miss Catskills Miss Rtchmond Miss Syracus~ 200nea=~~!s~~:cssl00 M RMP HI'S C: .and U S I C · alifom12 . AS T I! R S llcgiatcs day, reveal. Kingman has been secretary of the association for the past two years. Marshall E. Fox was chosen by the nominating . committee as first vice president· for 1934 and William Aydelotte of Schenectady as second vice presi- dent. Nomination is tantamount to e•lection. Aydelo1te is· coa.ch of the Unio-n Co!Iege varsity tennis team, having succeeded CoJonel Hug·h Miller pr,evious to the 1933 spring season. UNION ON PANTHER SCHEDULE The Middlebury hockey schedule released l'ecently shows that Union will face the Panthers at Middle- bury January 6, while the North- erners wiH play a return game on the ice in Schenectady February 10. The Official Union College Barber for the past 24 years. Ask any upper classmen, they .know. 11 operators. Schenectady's great- est barber. COR. STATE AND BROADWAY The HAWTHORNE CLUB SANDWICHES and COLD DRINKS 226 Lafayette Street DINE and DANCE at BLUE MOON INN Saratoga Road between Freeman's Bridge and Airport Largest and Best Dance Floor in Capitol District REAL FLOOR SHOW-REAL ARTISTS I 0 Minutes from the Campus J. Push. Carroll, Mgr. Phone 2-5513 ~ r' \,. HERE'S Energy FOR YOU! M AKE A MEAL a day o£ Shredded Wheat, and you '11 put new speed into every- thing you do. This forty-year favorite is packed with natural energy elements. Yes sir, all the vita- mins, proteins, minerals, car- bohydrates and bran that make 't whole wheat man's great ener- gy food ... all of them come to you in Shredded Wheat. It's 100% whole wheat with noth- ing added, nothing taken away. And here's something that will please your pocketbook. Just a few pennies buy a satis- fying bowlful ·of this natural When you see Niagara Falls Dli the package, :you KNOW :you have Shredded Wheat, enet·gy food. It's ready cooked, ready to eat with milk or cream • • • with your favorite fruit. Try it for ten days in a row ... and watch your energy chart hit high. THE VITALLY DIFFERENT FOOD SHREDDED WHEAT A product of NATIONAL BISCUIT COMPANY \Uneeda Bakers\

Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TU:E'SDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1933 :Federal Legislation Necessary To Curb Wave of Lynching·s vent the formation of mobs and re- with the. emperor. Her husband, A •t' 1 b L b Is Tripp to Talk duce the number of lynchings, but Baron Joseph von Forstmeyer vcm · l IC e Y arra ' ee : . · · on Labor's ·.--------------o.....: they wiLl contribute to the final end Peterskreuz, had been granted six Discussed in Edit 0 ria I Era at Hale Club of this abominabte practice only as months leave of absence .from the Meeting they help buHd a public opinion army, and it was for the purpose that will outlaw it. of thanking him that the Ba:ronin· (Continued from Page 1) At the regular meeting ·of the.: (Continue<! from Page 1 l b The growth of such a public saw the emperor. sorships, and let the teaching e Hale Club tonight at g o'clock in dragged f.l'om his cell like a rat, opinion-which can come only with Mr. von Forstmeyer's father was done by those who can suffer fools the Delta Upsilon House, L. Reed · beaten by a mob of your drunken the development of a more deliber- in service at Court at the time of gladly until they become wise. ate and ·saner public-is a matter the tragic and mysterious death of \SniaH coHeges often ·excel large Tripp will read a paper on \The California bums, dragged down the d of ·education working through many Crown Prince Rudolph. He 1 emem- ones 1n 'bringing along' a goq Significance of :Labor's ]:few Era\. stone ste.ps of you1· ja.iJl:l, disrobed agencies-the church, the public bers that everyone connected with many kinds of students who would John Roberts will preside. After of every piece of clothin.g before school, the co!Iege, the universities, the Court, jncluding his father, had wilt and perish in a university en- the discussion which is to follow, the eye:; of your beautiful women and, above an, the press. Lynching to swear a·bsolute secrecy about the vironment. They cannot offer as .plans will be made for the annual · d has been primarily a vacial prob- affair. large a variety of stimuli, or as ex- ·Christmas dr'nner• to be gr'ven be- NOTICE TO JUNIORS All juniors Who have not yet , had their .pictures taken fer the 1935 Garnlll are asked to do so . by the end of this week. Sittings m. ust .be made a:t the , White Studio on Sta:te street .. One dollar deposit !s required at ' time of the sitting. Thornton W.fiipple, Managing Editor. · and innocent children, torture at t· t d d f B t !em-the South has· been the great- In 1917, Mr. von Forstmeyer ran ac mg s an ar. s o success. u fore the Christmas recess. the end of a rope, singed like a est offender. Sadistic mob violenc.e away from the Military Academy they ca;n undertake that intimately ~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ Thank,;giving turkey, and fl.na'lly' can and will. b\'l eliminated fn pro- ·in which he was studying to join p~r:;;on.al sort of development which ~~ cnuJ{eU l:l!uw1y, wall~ tlu: ..:utlm~;;. portion as all elements of the pop- his father, who was in command of some young men seem to need. flames lend an odor of burning ulation are provided opportunitie(l. some troops in Russia. Both his There are those who thrive on fle:sh to the Iragrance of your for development and are accorded , mother and father, he says, w.erE' 'close 'contacts' as well as those Lt:aulif.ul u1 angt: gl uve,. fundamenta:l human rig:hts. Wheth- . greatly agitated. He could I\Ot who .crave to :be left a:! en e. At its Justifi(•ation hy ~<:motional-Minded er in the field of religion, educaotion, 'leave, however, and spent three worst, this sert of treatment be- economics, jurisprudence, or poli- months about four mi\les from the comes patet·naclism of the prepar- Such a :;pectacle was indeed tics, anything whicl) looks toward front. When the Russian defense ato1-y sch<;>ol type, most of which is necessary, dear Guvermlr, to scare this end is a factor in reducing- mob collapsed, he returned to Vienna, inexcuEable and totally 'ineffective, the big bad kid·napers. ( Unrortu- violence. For fundamentally lynch- and re-entered school at the There• except a!; a sop to timid parents nately it will only scare the ama- ing is an expression of a basic lack sium. who wish their sons to qe policed teursl. And you, who were elected of respect both for human beings .nto manhood. to enfur·ce l'aw and prese1ve ordet and for· organized society. Mr. von Forstmeye.r volunteered \In short, large and small cole are quite ju:stified in not doing your o in 1918 • not O):rly, he says, because leges differ considerably in their duty. That duty is all a par·t .or ~he V F R 1 t of his patriotic feeling, but also bew suitability for different types of little joke. Some of the thmkmg On 0rstn1eyer e a es ~ause the army was then accept- students; and a olearer recognition people here in the East believe that Experiences During War ing the younger genera.tion, par- of that fact would go far to dispel you are not lit to hold. your htgh ticularly those vvho had had ex- some of the foolish notions of su- office and should be rmpeached. perience with skiing and mountain periority and inferiority which Some have ex.pressed the opinion climbing. The skiis were used in pollute the atmosphere of the ac- that you are a first-rate political (Continued from Page 1) patrol and reconnoitre work in the ademic world, They are not two scoundrel with a spine lil~e a worm. nobility married to a member of mountains. The company was sorts of mechanisms for doing ex- But we, who live by our emotions the royal family. This caused a quartered in a cave, because of the actly the same things, the one do- and have no patience with ratwnal confusion of precedence which continual bombardment, and sub- lng the job grandly, expensively, thinldng, disagree with these peo- .::ould not be overcome.\ The Court sisted principally on rum and cig- and competently, and the other do- pie. \\ e congtatulate you as the Ball, on the other hand, while still arettes, as it was impossible to ing it meageliy, cheaply, and honor-able governor or a :state noted formal, was much less so than the. carry supplies up the two or three wretchedly. Each has its function for lenlon \ \OUJ-gJ \pes and nudtst Ball a.t Court, Mr. von Forstmeyer thousand metres. Mr. von Forst- t f d 1 ·t 1 · th ~ ~ ~ ~ I · d th t th· d · meyer was decorated w1'th the Karl 0 per orm, an s P ace m e colonies. We l<\jotee with you and exp ame a IS was ue prm- Truppen Kreuz. academic scheme of things.\ crown you the ehampion 0 ~ tt;at .::ipally to the fact that more people good old political bi'and of JUstice came. Every important army offi- The regiment, which was Hun- which keE'ps Tom Mooney locked ::!er and governmental official was garian, left of its own accord a up but which tloel:l not choose to invit<'d. Mr. von Forstmeyer's week before the Armistice, when !{eep vour gallant t11 unl's locked mother always attended these balls Hungary declared its independence. • with her husband. Mr. von Forst- Aft t t T · t th · out. meyer recalls weepin~r bitterly, etr a s opd Sa b.nes ed, . . e dreght- rrrr·h;;===a=;;;·;·=a=;·;~;;;·;iii II SenUce ~!pA SmUe I F. I ) ·\. u•r·l'tt'S i'n the Tribune, ~ men crosse er Ia an JOlne t e • \ when he was a small child, when · h' h 1 d b f d \We belie\·e th:rt no pun, 1 shment is compames w tc 1a een orme too hol ·r'rbl~ for· ilidnapers; and no he saw his mother leaving for a to repulse the Roumanians. After ' Court Ball. dressed \en grande the de ulto y fi ht'n th C rime h:onible enough to justify ra r s r g 1 g, e men ., Th' toilette\ very decolletee. He didn't arrived in Budapest. Mr. von lynching its perpetratols. IS think it proper to leave the house Forstmeyer then returned to Vien- statenrent P 01 tlay:; the conflict be- with a bare back. na, to find that his father had re- tween rational and emotional judg- ment. Public reaction to the mur- Mr. von Forstmeyer's mother, the turned wounded, the Empire over- der:; of the Lmd!Jeq;h uaby and Baronin Paula von Peter-Peters- thrown, and Vienna beginning its Brooke Hart is pet:uharly emotion- kreuz, had a personal audience slew death. Hi PHONE 4-4525 m iilso9 UNION STREET !!! al--·it takes the fm·m of righteous ---------------- indignation. hate. and de,;ire tor re- venge. This is [Jet fectly natural. The people of the country become incenl:led anti a lynching :;atisfies the common lust for 1 ctaliation. Most of us recl•ived the new:; ot' the death of the Hart slayers joyously but the stot·y left more than a bad taste in ou1· mouthl:l. It is extreme- ly easy fot· people to rationalize themselves into a feeling of justiti- cation of ha vint; t>ngaged in a lynching or havmg morally sup- pm·tpd ;;uch violPnce. But as tile event approaches a certain remote- ness and is considet·ed in retrospect, the tragPdy of the mob is genNally deplored by all thinkmg people. A \lynch\ i,; alway:; the expres- sion of the lowe't of human, or per- haps animal, ·impuJ,;ps thP desire to hurt, to torture, to witne~:> ,;uf- fet·ing. to :see blood. Man thinlt~ of hims·elf as more than a mere animal but the f;an Jo,c incident. as well a,; the burning at St. Jos- eph, :shows him to be tundamental ly little more than a bea,;t clothed in a thin veneer of artificiality. The :State Has Be•·n L~nched Until America ca.n di:<cover and apply means to end these relapses to the law of the jungle. we nave no assurance that orderPd society will nut at any moment b~ ovel- thrown by the blind pa:ss10n ot a potentially ~ver·JHesent mob. The most obv10us results of lynching~ include the untimt>ly dt>atn ul un- convtcted people, the cruc1tixwn of law anti govet·nment, and the bar- bane and uepmved behavior ot' the lynchers. Leadmg citizen:; are com- pnsed into letling the matter· alone. thus affmding the lynchers v11tuaJ immunity. Lynchmg make:;. mock- ery of court:; and Citizenship. The state itself has been lynched. When five thou,;and people at San Jo:;e stand for hours and look at two V.lCtlms barbancally done to death, a.ntl then, when the grand jul'y nteets but take:; no cogm<.ance of this cli·me, the mmal structure of the commun1ty has bruken down. Either the governor IS incompetent, or the cout t.::~ att· 1n:-.ineere o.r ~·tuf.Hd 1 in handling Lh .. t·ct~e. ut· JUlyuu•n t..il..-,tegai L1 tbt_'il u<1lh.'\) LJ! CJtlL.t·n .... i :swear fabdy. Une ut· u.ll ol .theM', elt·ments m tLl' uJlllllllln;ty tl!u, shate 1n ·the rt•,punolblllty 1or Ute 1 1 crime of the mob. Every man ha:s a n~ht to trial by i jury. _:..tutkrn .. thud !.Iegree\ police I methods. of ubtainin~ confessions open up the po:;sib1lily that Holmes and Thurmond may have been to- tally innocent. ThP possibility seem11 not very g1·eat, Jt b tl ue, but it still exists. T'he zeputation of the Amer- ican ~ys:tem of Cl imina! ju:stice is not enviable. Tlw oquawl1 of the eagle on the American dollar rings loudly in the ears of lawyers, jus- tices and jurists alike. The courts are disgustingly slow in dispensin~ punishment. Hut w1th all 1ts cor- ruption, the establit;hed order at its worst is much to be prefen ed to the irrational violence of mob ac· lion. :Federal Legislation Nel'ded -''Buy Chai ... tllln::, ~t·;t:,··-- m m m:::::m:::mm::m::::::::::::::::::::::::m::::::::m::::::::: out- Not so long ago practically all • cigarettes were made by hand Now, Chesterfields are made by high-speed machines that turn out cigarettes are 7 50 cigarettes practically a minute, and the not touched by hand. B y the use of long steel ovens -drying machines of the most modern type-and by age- ing the leaf tobacco for 30 months like wine is aged- Chesterfielu tobacco is milder anu tastes better. Only pure cigarette paper- the best made-is used for Chesterfielu. And to make sure that every- thing that goes into Chesterfield is just right, expert chemists test all materials that are used in any way in the manufacture. Chesterfields are made and packed in clean, up-to-date fac- tories, where the air is changed e\.·ery 4% minutes. The mois- ture-pruof package, wrapped in Du Pont's No. 300 Cellophane -the best made-reaches you just as if you went by the fac- tory door. In a letter to us, an emi- nent scientist says: rr Chesterfield Cigarettes are just as pure as the water you drink. \ SHOP IS OPEN AGAIN Meet Your Pals Here For BREAKFAST, LUNCH: or DINNER Special Student Meal Tickets fifm:::::m::m::::m:m::::m:::::::::m::m::::m:m::::::m::::m::::::::::::m:::::;a:H::::m::m:::::m:m::m::::m::~==; m Milk Cream Butter Eggs Iii CLOVERLAND CREAME·RY PHONE 2A265 Ice Cream Cottage Cheese :::::::::::::::::m::::m:m:::::i:::m:::m::::::::m::m::m::::::::::::::::::m:::m::m:::::;:m::::::::::m:mm:::mm::m:: • arettes The attitude of Governor Rolph indicates that there is need for fed- eral legislation to insme the pm- tection of plbun\Js. and facilitalP the apprehension and conviction of rno.b membe1s. There is also a nPed for more sPrurc jaib to keep out I mobs and adPqtwtc equipment to repel them. Perhaps the consolida- tion of ,;mall. poor counties into larger wealthiPr units would hE>lp greatly to this end. It need nut be urged that law.- at la;;t are of lit- tle avail unless supported by public. opinion. The various expedients suggested above may help to pre- hesterfield cigarettes are just . , as pure as the water you drtnk :£> 1933, L!GGE1T & MYllRS TosAcco Co,

yet , the so, the ' at, pie, · p ~ ................. Faculty Women's Booksale Closes Tomorrow Noon With Reduced Prices • • Mountebanks To Present Fall Productions Tonight And Tomorrow Vol. LVlii, No. 22 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1933 PRICE FIVE CENTS Temperate Problem Comes to Fore With Prohibition Repeal Noble Experiment Was Fail- ure BE'cause It N f:'Ver Re- ·ceived Support of the People FREEDOM REGAINED Restored Privilege Liable to Abuse by American Habit of \Doing Things in Big Way\ By LESLIE R. LONG Union ShortWave Station Converses With California Marked ~Hccess has been attain- ed with the new 150 watt transmit- ter built by the Radio Club in the , last few weeks·. With this trans- mitter the Union ;;;3\at10n hae been able to converse with many other. short wave stations. This week a conversation was carried on in code between the local sta:tion and one in California. At the last meeting of the Radio Club held in the Engineer·ing Build- ing a motion was passed whereby each ·member with an operator's li- cense is to operate the station at least one hour a week. Alfred Bis<Jhoff '35 and W. Bra-dley Plum- mer '36 are president and secretary of the organization. There was a meeting of the club this afternoon in Electrical Engineering Building at 3:30. -· '--' --oJ.J~. 't-1 ::.·_ ~/ Booksale Nets $150 In First Four Days Sale Closes Tomorrow Noon With Reduced Prices This Afternoon, Tomorrow A. M. The press tells us that the vener- able J. Barleycorn (alias R. Va;n Winkle) has fallen out of bed and is once more spilling himself all over the place. That is indeed news to most of us. We really were not aware that the old fellow had been sleeping at all. But if it is true that he has been in a state of apparent slumber, it has been quite evident for some time that his· consecutive attacks of insomnia during the p.ast 14 years have reduced him to a state of chronic somnambulism. Anyway, they tell us he's up again and that he's going to stay with us as long as he and we behave our- selves. The first four days of the Fac- William Jennings Bryan, a pion- ulty Women's Club booksale ha.ve eer of the currently popula!' silver netted $150, which wHi be donated movement, stated in his Jackson to th<' Student Loan Fund. The Day address to the Democratic party, \It is inconceivable that our large number cif donations that party should antagonize the moral have been made during the sale sense of the nation. John Barley- have kept the tables well stocked. corn is dead. The Democratic party A numbe!' of paper-bound French cannot tie itself to a corpse or be- books F.tnd several excellent prints come the champion of an outlawed of noted pictures being among the traffic.\ It is also interesting to re- , .later donations. call that in 1917 there was actually The booksale will continue until held, at a prominent church in Saturday noon with all books left Gloversville, a funeral service for · br Friday noon selling at greatly the above deceased J. B. A large ' 1·educed prices Mrs. Barrison C. bottle was placed in a wooden coffin Coffin, Chairman of the committee and the conventional form of burial in charge of the booksale, an- service was performed by the pastor nounced. The greatest demand has in the presence of his devout con- been for technical books of differ- gregation. The sacrament was ad- ent types. More mathematics books ministered in all sincerity and was have been sold than any othE'r kind distinctly not considered as a joke. of book. Dean Garis donated a But do not the Scriptures plainly large collection of excellent texts on state-\The dead men shall live?\-· that subject for the sale. The1e has !sa. 26, 19. also been considerable demand for French and German dictionaries as Prohibition Unsupported well as for Biology textbooks. National prohibition failed pe- Students are urged to visit the cause it never received the support sale more than once because of the of the American people. Many con- constant changing of the stock sidered it an intrusion upon the In- There are several novels still un-, alienable rights of the citizenry- sold which have won universal reo- whatever those dghts may happen ognition in the past two or three to be. They opposed it because it years. Also at extremely low prices constituted a certain restriction of are several volumes of poetry and their freedom. But this same criti- 'English literature. For those espe- cism is equally applicable to all . cially interested in religious works Jaws formula:ted bor society, and to there are a number of treatises on that extent it loses all weight when the Christian faith. Student ,Council to College Y. M. C. A. Ask for Three Days Plans Progra~ of More Xmas Recess Christmas Singing Gu:Jnac Appointed to Consult With Administration; Stu- dents Would Return Monday MAY HAVE CON'rEST Acheson Turns in Junior Prom Surplus; Committee Still In- vestigating Student Taxes 'fidmarsh, Ligon, Achilles in ChargE' of Arrangements for Program of Holiday Songs CUSTOM AT YALE Annual Singing of Christmas Carols So Popular at Yale That Tickets Are ~old Out At a meeting held last night in At a meeting of the Union Col- North College, the Student Council lege Christian Association in Silli- went on record as favoring the ex- man Hall Wednesday afternoon, tension of Christmas vacation until plans were made for the singing of Monday, January 8th. Daniel Flinn, Christmas carols in the Memorial '34, president, chose Henry Gulnac, Chapel on Sunday night, December '34, to consult with the administra- 17. The student vote upon the pro- tion in rega-rd to this matter. If posed program of activity for the approved by the administration, Y. M. C. A. shO!Wed that more than this motion will be discussed in 75 per cent of the student body Student Body Meeting Monday. favored the idea of having a Sun- FUnn appointed Paul Wassmans- ·day night song service before leav- dorf, '34, and L. Reed Tripp, '34 to ing for the Christmas recess. This investi~ate the possibility of offer- vote was the largest given to any ing a prize to the student writing proposal and is expected to be the best football song. The Coun- strongly supported by the students. cil realizes the need of such a song Under the supervision of Mr. H. and is willing to sponsor a contest Laurence Achilles, Profe:ssor Ernest if enough enthusiasm is shown by M. Ligon, and Professor Elmer A. the Student Body. T1dmarsh, arrangements are being . Reporting for the Sophomore Dis- made for the affair. The words of cipline Committee, Robert North the old familiar Christmas carols '36, cha·irman, stated that although will be flashed on a screen in the freshman attendance at Student front of t~1e Chapel and an attempt Body Meetings had improved con- w1ll also be ma:de to set up ampli- ~iderably, several men are still fail- ficrs so that the songs may be ing to appear. The committee heard outside. plans to get in tovch with these The following committees were freshmen immediately, and unless formed to attend to the various de- they can offer valid excuses, will tails of the occasion; Committee for place them under severe penalties. Decorations- G. A. Neumann, chair- A list of freshmen found on the man; Committee for Amplification campus without their caps has also ~ -N. L. Hess, chairman; Committee been started by the committee. for Christmas Carols-A. S. Plum- Thomas Acheson, '34, chairman of mer, chairman. the 1933 Junior Prom Committee Many colleges have an evening turned over to the Council $144.50, set aside for the singing of Christ- the surplus from last year's Prom. mas carols, and the students in all The chairman of a committee in- of these colleges enjoy the song vestigating student taxes, William fests greatly. At Yale, the annual Waldron, '35, reported that a thor- Christmas carol singing is so pop- ough survey is being made of tax ular that. tickets for the occasion apportionments. Within a few are sold out weeks before the date weeks the committee will have col- set for the singing. The Yale Choir, lected enough information to issue Glee Club, and Band also parti- a definite report. cipate in the festivities and add -~--o--- Dr. Krumbine to Deliver Sermon in Sunday Chapel much to the exercises. The song servic·e to be held at Unhm under the direction of Pro- fE'ssor Tidmarsh will likewise be a·ssistetl by the College Choir and Glee Club. applied to any individual statute. Despite the number of technical Dr. Miles Henry Krumbine, pas- . The purpose of the amendment books sold there are still many ex- tor of the Plymouth Church of · was to rid the country of what was cellent texts remai.ning. Th_ere are Shaker Heights- Cleveland Ohio termed the \dire evil of alcohol.\ also a large collectiOn of fictiOn and . . • . • . . • Instead of accomplishing this end, many admirable prints that deserve , smce 1929, Will giVe the prmc1pal it gave birth to a large family of the interest of the students. address at the Memorial chapel monstrosities. It made hundreds of ---~-~o-~-- services on Sunday at 11:00 o'clock. thousands of violaters and evaders of the law and as many more hypo- IriRh Gives Talk on Highways in the Memroial Chapel. crites. It contributed to the grow- At Meeting of Civil Engineers After studying at Allbright Col- ing lack of respect for .American lege of Myerstown, Penna., from law and order, both here and d abroad. It gave rise to countless 1906 to 1908, Dr. Krumbine entere rackets of an kinds. It led to the John S. Irish '31 wa:s the spealter Gettysburg College, from which he further corruption of police and en- at the meeting \f the Union chap- was graduated in 1911 wilh the forcement agents. It was directly tcr of the American Society of Civil bachelor of arts degree, and re- responsible for thousands of deaths Engineers Tuesday night. The topic ceived the honorary degree of doc- attributable to the consumption of of his speech was \Highways.\ tor of divinity in 1925. He received poison rum. Many more evils might Mr. Irish discussed thE> topic of his training for the ministry at the · be mentioned. But for the time be~ highways from several angles. He Lutheran Theological Seminary, ing national prohibition is a dead explained the organization of the Gettysburg, Penna., from which he iss~e. The most ardent dry, if he state highways, described the actual was graduated in 1915. During the still be rational, could not, upon re- road work, the basic planning of summer of 1918, Dr. Krumbine viewing the history of the past 14 the construction, and the carrying studied at the University of Wis- (Continued on Page 4) out of contracts. consin. Use of Abstracts of Textbooks Wa~ Permitted in Course Taught by Nott The study at Union that was ~f question or dialogue to keep up in- prime importance dul'ing the pl'eSI- dividua:l attention in the class. deucy of Dr. Eliphalet Nett was There was a pocket pamphlet, ltnown as \Kames.\ It wa:s the surreptitiously printed and circu- nfternoou lecture or recitation of lated in the class, that was called the Senior class in which Dr. Nott \Little Kames.\ It contained au was the preceptm. It was based on abstract of each chapter, thu~ sav- Kames's \Elements of Criticism.\ ing the indolent student the labor But Lord Kames himself would of studying. Dr. Nott knew of this have rubbed his eyes in astonish- practice, but never positively fer- ment lf he could have seen an.d bade it. He used to say that the hea!'d the use that was made of h1s big boolt was better than the little book. . primer, but the little one was bet- The course here so amplified and ter than nothing. expanded it that, instead of a com-· Many regretted when the ringing pend of aesthetics, it had become a of the chapel bell at 5 o'clock comprehensive study of human na- brought the lecture to a:n end. All tun;, ranging over the ~hole field graduates of that period remember of physical moral and mtellectual their \Kames\ with interest and philosophy,' and applied to practic~l pleasure. Many a clergyman, many use in business, politics and rell- an author, many a lawyer and gion. Usually this afternoon ses- ·statesman, has found that Dr. Nott sion took the form of a monologue and Kames had given him the S{)lu- by Dr. Nott, replete wit!; wit ·and tion of some of the most perplexing wisdom, but varied occas10nally by problems of his life. In 1914, Dr. Krumbine was or- dained in the Lutheran ministry, after which he was pastor of the Grace Church .of Altoona, Penna., until 1917, from where he went to the First Church of Dayton, Ohio, as pastor, from 1918 to 1926. From 1926 to 1929 Dr. Krumbine was pas- tor of the 'Parkside Church of Buf- falo, and since then has been pas- tor of the Plymouth Church of Shaker Heights, Cleveland, Ohio. Dr. Krumbine was the founder in 1920 and conductor of the Summer School of Religious Education in connection with his church. He was a member of the American Seminar for study in Europe in 1923 and in 1926 he was on~ !}ood wm' mission for study in M€kico. He is Trustee of the Church Peace Union. Dr. Krumbine has bl'en university preacher at Harvard, Yale, Cornell, Chicago, Iowa, Illinois, Mt. Holy- oke, and Smith. He iR the author of \Wa:y to the Best,\ 1924; \A Summer Program for the Church School,\ 1926. Dr. Krumbine is a contributor to mag- azines and also contributed to the 1925 edition of \Best Sermons\ and to \Whither Christianity\ in 1929. In 1928, he was editor of American Lutheran Preaching. CALENDAR Tonight Mountebanks Performan<!e- Mountebanks Theater, Hanna Hall. \Second Shepherd's Play\ and \Everyman.\ Tomor~·ow Daily Assembly Speaker, Pro- fessor James S. Green, \Art.\ Basketball-Union vs. Middle- bury at Middlebury, Vermont Mountebanks· Performance- Mountebanks Theater, Hanna Hall. Sunday Sunday Chapel Service, Dr. M. H. Krumbine, Plymouth Church of Shaker Heights, Cleveland, Ohio. Organ Recitai-Dr. Eimer A. Tidmarsh, Memorial Chapel, 4:00 p.m. Monda.y League of Evangelical Stu- dents Meeting, Old Chapel, 7:30 p.m. Y. M. C. A. Meeting, Silliman Hall, 2:00 p. m. Tuesday Daily Assembly Speaker, Mr. H. Laurence Achilles. Basketball-Union vs. Clark- son r,t Alumni Gymnasium. Classical Club Meeting, Dr. Kellogg's at 7:30 p. m. Physics Club Meeting, Room 204, Physics Bldg., 8:00 p. m. ·Ger:man Club Meeting, Silli- man Hall, 8:00 p. m. French Club Meeting, Silli·man Hall, 8:00 p. m. Chess Club Meeting, Civil En- gineering Library, 8:.00 p. m. Chemistry Club M e e t i n g, Chemistry Building, 8:0() p. m. Class in J oumalism, Publica- tions Office, Silliman Ha:ll, 8:00 p.m. Faculty Men's Club Meets Monthly Throughout Y ea1· Hn.mor and Pathos Featured in Plays The Facultj· Men's Club, organ-. ized last spring'. will continue thi,; By M 0 u n t e b a n k s college year holuing monthly meet- ings. The first meeting of the year wa;; held Thur;;day, November 23,. Mountebanks to Offer 'Second in the Trophy room of the gymnas- ium, where all the meetings w1ll be Shepherd's Play' and 'Every- held. The club will meet regularly man' Tonight and Tomorrow on the first Thursday in each month with two business meetings to be hedl during the year. The officers this year are: Professor Wilford H. Ketz, President; Mr. Augustus H. Fox, Vice-P1·e.;;ident; Professor A. Gordon Dev.<>y, :SE'cre- tary-Treasurer. The purpo..;e of the club 1~ to provide a place where the faculty may meet for recreational activ- ities. One of the first activities of the organization will be to spon<Jor the basketball game here Tuesday with Clarkson Tech. This is being done with the cooperation of Pro- fessor J. Harold Wittner and a largE' number of the faculty are planning to attend the game. ----o--~~· CrowleyTells About Fordham Coarhing Seniors on 1933 Football Squad Heat Fordham Coach Tell of Benefits RE\ceived by Players \Football gives the players three essentials of life,\ stated James Crowley, head football coach of Fordham University and one of the famed Four Horsemen of Notre Dame, at the annual dinner at the Mohawk Golf Club given by the Schenectady Alumni Association in honor of the seniors on the football squad. \Football teaches the players de- pendability, sportsmanship, the ap- pl eciation of othe·r players' point of view, and builds up a wonderful spirit and enthusiasm to win,\ he added. George Daley, '92, sports~editor of t.he New York He!'ald~Tribune, act- ed as toastmaster. Other speakers were Profe-ssor J. Harold Wittner, Coach G. Elliott Hat;fl.eld, Captain Austin M. Fox, and Captain-elect Charles \Chip\ Dain. About one hundred alumni of Union and Notre Dame at~ended the dinner. The guests were wel- comed by Alvin Nitchman, '24, pres- ident of the Schenectady Alumni Club of Union College. In introducing Professor Wittner and Captain Fox, George Daley said that football is 'to build men, not football players. Men and teams are too often measured by the score.\ Professor Wittner praised the alumni and congratulated Coach Hatfield for his work during the past three years. Captain Fox thanked the alumni fot' their sup- port of the football team during the past season in spite of the poor record compiled. Thomas Acheson, '34, was highly commended by CoaCh Hatfield for his work during the past three years. \Chip\ Da;in told of the prospects for next season, with a letterman available for every posi- tion. Crowley told of his many experi- encC<. as coach since his graduation from Notre Dame. \From football,\ he said, \I have gained many friends and have ,;Nn that the game benefits not only the first eleven men, but all the members of the squad. \One of the important duties of the coach is to build character, not a winning team.\ MANY NEW ACTORS Freshmen and Sophomores to Fill Important Roles in Regular Fall Presentation Hilariou:;ness will not be con- fined to the Repeal worshippe-rs this week-end, for this priceless quality will be found in the presentation of that \mystery-thriller\ of the fif- teenth century, \The Second Shep- herd's Play\ at the Mountebanks theater tonight and tomorrow night, together with that classic of the drama, \Everyman.\ George W. Stroebel, Jr., '35 in the role of \Mak the sheep-stealer, is one of the funniest characters to have trod the Mountebanks stage. From the sleeping shepherds, Mak steals away and \borrows\ one of their fattest sheep. To escape de- tection he hides the animal in the bed of his wife, who feigns conva;l- escence from recent child-birth. Upl'oarious Humor The1·e is rib-bursting humor in the scene that follows; the S·hep- herds come to Mak's hut a.nd try to see the \baby finally discover- Ing the fraud, and administer odd punishment to the sheep-stealer. Of course, thi::; play, like all others of the fifteenth century, con- cludes with a religious note: the shepherds hear heavenly music, and are attracted to Bethlehem to worship the Nativity. Robert H. Smith '34 plays the old shepherd with much understanding and is ably ~up ported by Julius J. Sitney '34 and John Rooney, Jr., '37, who also tend sheep. C. Wil- liam Bennett '3·1 plays the shrewish wife, and in the concluding scene appears Robert J. McManus '36 as the angel and Clarence Clark '36 as Mal'ia. Gorgeous Costumes Beautifully costumed, the charac- ters 111 \Everyman\ will compose one of the most gorgeously dressed casts to have played at Union. There is remarkable simplicity in the movement of this philosophical drama of man's Hfe and his prepar- ation for the next I.ife. Director Carroll has used symbol- ical settings, designed by SidnE.>y D. Markman '34 who plays \God\ in the play, to emphasize the moral of the play. But this is not a \lecture- play\ compara·ble to that of present day propagandisis of the theater. It has remarkable dramatic quality -which accounts for the universal interest evinced in \Everyman\ in all western countries since the un- known author first presented it- long b£>fore Columbus discovered America·. Plays to Mali:e History Dramatic history will be written this week-end while these plays are being performed. Because of the hi5h liter-ary quallty of these plays, they have been rarely given in this counlt y anti then only by college theaters, while in Europe the great- e,;t diJ ectors have pr·esentetl \Every- man\ at the world famous festivals during the summer months. The \morality\ play personified viceR and virtues as conscious (Continued on Page 4) Similarities to New Union Plan Are Found in Curriculum 125 Years AglJ The new Union five point plan each course, one every year. The for the intellectual advancement four classes were languages, his- of youth finds a: surprising sim- tory and belles-letters, mathema- llarity to the plan of education tics and philosophy. used by Union a century and a The first class, languages was quarter ago, as set forth in a pam- studied during the freshman year, phlet discovered by Mr. Charles N. in the course of which the student Waldron, secretary of the college. \became acquainted with Virgil, The new Union project will group Cicero's· Orations, Greek Testament, the subjects of study in the college Lucian, Roman Antiquities, Arith- in four divisions, engineering, Ian- metic, and English Grammar; or, guage and literature, mathematics !nste'ad of the G~.eek, with Gil Blas, and science, and the social sci- 1n French. . . . ences. Each student will take up The other three classes empha- one of the curricula and remain in sized history, mathematics and the division for the four year'S he philosophy, according to the year is in college. The booklet which is they were studied. now in Mr. Waldron's office, en- The• pamphlet gave other pieces titled \The Laws And Regulations of information concerning college for the Government of Union Col- life a century ago, including the lege, Schenectady, 1804,\ also ex- fact that chapel was •at six in the plains a scheme of education which morning, and qemanded that \no divides the fiel'd of study into four student should be gullty of associa- divisions. The difference between· ting with persons of low and bad the two projects lies in the fact character, of cursing, swearing, or that in 1804 the student took up any unbecoming language.\

:'! ';:, ',, . t ,,, Two \A Ca11sa Pel'Sa Pa1·olo Assai'' FouNDED 1876 Affiliated With Pi Delta Epsilon ~ssodatrd ffollrointr ~rrs~ -----of_#·.,.-,,..,~----- 19 j l t_NAII.:I~AI:_-(t;;;:)t-.;:;_~ ::ovlRALol) I\J J4 ~ The official newspaper of the students of ~nion College. Published Tuesday\ and l~rtd~ys throughout the college year, except dunng Chl'istwa;s and spring I ecesse.o. Publication Office, The Gazette Pres:;, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y ., Telephone 4-4.141 Entered at the Schenectady l'ost Ofiice as Second Class Mail Matter· Subscription price Five c~nt~ a co~'Y; $~.00 a year; delivered anywhere m the Ut11ted States. THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1933 eide not to go in for this sort of thing and woud center their activity around the job of thoroughly :lcquainting the prospective l'!'eshrnan with Union College, everyone con- cerned woulrl benefit in the long run. The most im1Jodant thing right now is for the several fraternities to stal't ~etting in touch with those who are interested in F nion as a collegE' to come to next yenr, and consulting with the Secretary's office with the idea in mind of having a real rushing week next September much easier. STRANGE PEOPLE RANDOM OBSERV ATlO·NS By Sidney David Markman ~ MUSIC by Rankine Hinman !l====:=- Sunday Dr. Tidmarsh will be as- .sisted in the weekly organ redtal Saturday it was warm In New .ly thoughtful and shutting their York. The city brightened for a eyes when the music plays. by Edward Molloy and David space and walked about with open, New York is .full of restaurants. Weiss, who will play the Vivaldi coat and muffler flying in the wind.· The city eats with one great mouth Concerto in A minor .for two violins. The sun came out mtermittently enormous quantities of rood. Every- but remained for the most part be- one in New York eats and eats and The remainder of the progtam will hind banks o.f grey clouds. , eats. consist of Christmas music, which New York ls a sheet of asphalt. Beer and scotch bottle on the we have been looking· forward to Vegetation there is always like a sidewalk Sunday morning. Night for a long time. Httle i~land in a vast sea of cement. clubs in Greenich Village lookmg The gregarious instinct gone very sheepish like someone who has V tvaldJ s music charactc11stwa.uy wild! Why do so many congregate ·been vain and is· now ashamed. r·eveats tue cozuposer· \'-\' a )O•c~• 1n the same place't One's life is not b vutuo::;o or tue v,oun sLu:v1ue; ~\\'\ one's own in New York. Humanity Bootblacks, no 1 ?nger litt~e oy;; upponumues ror UlsJllay, u.ct:H .,.,._ . but grown men, gomg to their busl- crawl~ n1:to your very bones th~re,, ness ·early in the morning. They ee~s1 ve1y su. .tilS cn,aL, ve a.u'\\.Y \' The ctty ts full of people. The bmld- . are efficient. Chairs for customers, o;ene1.auy r·egataeu. a::;. :>L!l~•'Y ,,,,.- mgs startle o_ne ·but the people soon fancy k·inds of polish whisk brooms ,cea, nuL nmscery or :wnu, wu,<oH \\ push them 1nto the background., 1 ff 1 h t . t . t ,' d:pplled. to a temarll.\b'e uevew..,- The eff ect of the masses is insidious to c eall: 0 cot es, en mtnu es , or Luent or tne ~.,;anetH to, n~\ gJV-Ll J·•- . eac-h shme for ten cents. ~- ~ • - and longer endurmg. _ worK~ an enuuent pus,t.on ut V!vuu Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Address all business communications to Arthur J. Katzberg, Kappa Nu House, Union Coll.ege, Schenectady, N. Y. All other ~:omwuutc:auons to George R. Cory, Jr., Psi Upsilon Hou:;e, Brooklyn 1 and s cap e. Kings Lenox Avenue full of negroes, 1 ·eportmy. :llllldl'ed of them. His QUE>SS was probal>l,v County Hospital. Huge symmetrical pawn shops, undertakers, night '!he ·L.hristmas music inc1uae.o \ b 'ld\ h ed about lt'ke pacl'1'ng clubs and heads sticking out of Wln- Ul mgs eap · • · .oever al uouiJlOSitlOns w1th \'Jl!<-l1 A prominent senior estimated· the other ,lay that we m·e blessed with at least two Schenectady. const>I'Y<ttin•. At any ntte thel'e- a1·e too many of the-m. Vv'e t·efel' to that strange geoup of ca~es on a dock awaiting sh1pment. dows. Sunday morning a police- .LJr, ~ Iumar·su nas rau 1 iuaiiGe<i u~ 111 H d th tall Chl ·mney man leading a drunken negro by ere an ere a · • pa,;t yea1 ~. among tHelrl lJ!:l'LlJe· ~ h . h th f th bu\ld' the arm with a black strumpet fol- • • ~ 1g er an any o e I mgs. · 1 'L;h-rl~tmas,\ .t:>egmnntg ve1 v soHtY \' h' t c• e Pari' New' lowing and cursing. Her hat ts op- \ vv as mg on \'quar •· ' - and Oeauttrul!y Wlc!l ute qu1tt uJ. SENIOR BOARD George R. Cory, Jr .......... , . , . Editor-in-Chief Arthur J. Katzberg., ........ Business Manager· C. William Huntley ........... Managing ~ditor Robert H. Smith .................. News ~dttor individual:,; kno\Vll as \bl'ief case caniers\ or ··carpet baggers.\ There are a number of better titles for these people, but they are Y k U · 1'ty J·n an office build s'ided, her coat open. She wears. a or mvers. - 'fh 11awn, tne n1Ustc gruws tn l\.lUJJ\Jty · A B t' t h h next to a red dress but no undm·things. e .. ~ - mg. ap ts c urc h untll tne nlaJe·~tJc llltt·oduct·Jo.rl uJ. · d ·t policeman turns and takes. er un- ~ girl;:; orm1 ory. d h d d h al ·'Adeste .l!'ideJes,\ whJCn 1s rn~;a vet- A man lighting a pipe and look- er t e arm an lea s er · ong ing at a girl's legs. Two little boys also. A crowd of negroes collect. ousJy oevelopea. to a poweJJ.Ul cu- dressed as girls a:;king something .Automobiles stop for a traffic light max. Arnold J. Friedman ......... , •... Sports Edt tor Prince E. Oleson., .............. Feature Edt tor not seen in publications. for Thanksgiving. A Bowery bum but do not move when it is green '!he remainder of the prog1am i::; asliing for a dime so that a life will again. More heads stick out oi 'Lnllotus by JYlaJing, .. J.'ue no1y be saved. A man on a bench talk- windows. Smiling laughing heads. 1~1gnt oy .buck, .t:>U~:>set 's \accouu::~ lng very earnestly to a woman in .A mocliery in New York so early in .t\astouraux and Jacobs \l~oe 1 Morton c. Stewart ........ Circulation J\.1anager C. Hathaway M. Berger lssue Editor JUNIOR BOARD D. :Moulton J. Woolman n. Diamond ..... Milton A. Berger THE ONL \Y :::;OLlJTION There has lJL•en continued talk here and there auout ru:shiug and da.,:; ::>lJil'it. :\!any alumni and a large majuril.Y uf th~: Student Body are dissatisfied with condition::; ns they are at present. The two topics are \'OI'Y closely !'elated. When the entire freshman cla::>:s can be housed in dormitories, both matters will be settled automatically. If we had one good new dorm, the whole ft·osh class <'ould be housed comfortJ.bly. There are pwLaLly no J!lans for the expansion of Union College underway at the pn·sent time, but such a building is sorely needed here. With the whole freshman class living to- gether they would get to know each othl'r much better. At present the members of the various classes m-e not acquainted with each other in the way that they should be. They cannot be und.er present conditions. On the other had, with the whole class living in the dorms, we could get l'irl of that torture period known as ru,;hing w12ck. We could have a ne\v rushing system which \vould give every man a chance lu see each fraternity as it really is. \\'hat we need as much as an~-th in9: is a 11ew morl.cm dormi- tory. Perhaps the need i~ recognized. It would improve Union Colleg·e one h und r~d pel' cent. UNLIMITED POSSIBILITIE~ S.ecretary Charles N. Wald1·on has been go- ing- the rounds of the various fraternity houses during the past week trying to stir up some enthusiasm among the undergrad- uates about a rushing- week end this winter. If plans go throufrh according to schedule both the college and the fmtemities shou!d benefit greatly. J.Vh. Waldron is not of the oplluon that such a week end should be just one big entel'- tainment for sub freshmen. The reason why they come up here 1s t() see the college and therefore, most of their short stay here should be devoted to attending cla;.;ses, and seeing how the college runs under normal conditions and not the lighter side of life on the campus. This opinion is absolutely cor- rect. All of our rushing· activities, or at least part of them are nothing more than \bunk.\ It is possible to rush m0rc effecth·ely by forgetting all thE' parties and other fm·ms of entertainment. If all the houses would de- Every mot·ning n horde of these usually Jdd looking individuals descend upon the mannish clothes and loose blowing the morning. .l:lourgumon.\ hair. A girl from Florida without A negro on llOth Street with a Detroit Symphony ·ampus. All mol'ning they sit in classes, and .hen at noon they pick up theh· bl\ief cases a :;outhern accent. child on either arm. In a Brooklyn lot a woman sit- The turnstiles in the I. R. T. sub- Tuesday evening the Detroit ting in the sun wrapped in blankets way are noisy again. :Sympnony Orchestra under vsstp tlld fade out of :sight until t!1e next morning. on a steamer chair back of .an Over and above all sorrow, pen- uaoutovnch acbteved a disunct tu- These students get nothing out of college. l'hat is probably their own affair. What is apartment house. Moppets playmg . umph m Its !irst appea~ance m tne hockey On rollel . \k·a·te\ J·n· tlte \ul- ury, misery, crying and wailing of noy 'lu lC .1::1 11 t ~ ~ \' chidlren with broken bones. The \' 8 a • 1 '\!w ... cmg ue ter. A little toddling looking at an cement gets into the blood stream, ...:1evelanct :Symphony on the vnrom- 'oncoming automobile, judging the th b · h auc ::lerteo. ·~ne orches·tra does dl .. stance across the street, wat'tl.I1g a e ram, t e lungs. The city is t th · d It d · k d d b no possess e pertect p1 ec1s10n or nore impm·tant, they are not contributing tllylhing lu l'llinn College. We m-~~ justified nlonlent tlntl1 . the au·lomob·t'ln 1 ·~. sa . rm s an ances ut 1 h ,~ ~ 1 th' · 't g orwus tone or t e J:soston ::;ym- nearer, then off on the run. mow~ IS Is vant y, pnony, nor 1::; 1t qUite as thoroug1uy Man drunlt in u speukea»): com· In the country it .is misty. The Ulllleu us the Cleveland ~Jouv· plaining bitterly that someone hit trees are leafless but beautiful. The nevertheless, 1ts work is go;'d anJ. ; ll a:;kii;g· mule t;l' them. him in the stomach. Someone mak- river is unfrozen and quiet. The watnlly .lll::,!Hled, far rno1 e ::;o tlJ.all There is a definite movement under way ing believe he i~ a doctor consoles colors of the world are solt and sub- anytnmg we have heard done by him to no avail. The drunlien man dued. There is no blaring light like the Urcne::;tra formerly led ·by Niko- to improve the spirit here. Those behind the still insists he wa;; hit in the stom- on a hot day in August, nor is there lai Hokoloti. . l t t f tl th k' 1 t f ach the drabness of the brownstone Mr. Gabrilovitch, conducting with H l'<l \\'Hll 0 go Ul' lel' Hll rna lllg' H 0 0 L~cturer speaking on 10mantic houses of New York. There is a grand simplicity, gave a noble noi~l' at a football Jtame. The,Y want to make music in the nineteenth century. No peaceful calm in tl;le color of things t L• one dressed for the occasion. Some on a misty day which permeates the sweep 0 tne \.brandenburg\ con- ' .J t j f J th t h · · d certo No. 3 that b1·ought out the every s~nuPil 1ere ee a e IS an !tnpor- people getting up walking out an . soul and there is t>scape into repose cull digntty and grandeur imparted tant part of our machine. They \VOUld like then coming back. Everyone deep- and thought. oy Hacn. We were in just the right I d k d fi 't 1 mood to be tremendously moved by to Ja\'e en'lT stu ent rna e some e 111 e ·~-------------~ t:lrahm's F1rst Symphony, a glon- contribution to Union College. They are I E ES I J ous. work comparable to the best in EASY Q N THE Y N t Q Q l:leethoven. As the Symphony pro- confl'Onted by a tJ·emendoUS handicap when 0 e S n U r gressed we became completely ob- the,\' haVe tO deal with the ffrOUp that Will ll c 0 n t e m 0 r a r •I e $ llVlOUS to any minor detlclencies ._ p Lbe Orchestra may :possess. not do anything but sit in a class room. ooo This b supposed to be Na- p ·h· , 't .. Jd b . d 'd t bl' h tiona! Binge Week, we hear. But /Jrm't l'ity Urandt·hildrMl e1 ,tp::> I \\OU e a goo I ea 0 pu IS we are betting that it's nothing of 11 l'ays To A dl•e1·ti.•r ... II ow ·~..;;;;;;;;;W=e-e-k'_s_B;;;;;e;;;;;st=E-d-it ... or;;;;;ia-1~~ m each issue of The Concordiensis three or the kind. The ~ood old American people \automatic cheers!) can be .lboullt, F1·oshl .. , All four pictme\ of the senim· class nntil the whole group ha,; been shown. Unde1· the pic- lures a few lines could be devoted t0 an ac- count of what this senior has d~Jne while he has been here. These grinds know who they a1·e, and there is probahlr very little that can IJe done about them. It would be a good pian for a number of undet·grarluates to take stock of them- selves, and perhaps a !'ew '>'ould turn over a new lea f. I{EEP AT IT Seniors have been heard to say that the mly occasion on which they visit the gym- nasium are to :tttend the basketball games .md swimming meets. Like the library, the ,g-ym to these men is a part of the college activities \\'hich they perforce must attend in mh·r to fulfill the minimum requirements. Although all students cannot participate in v·arsity athletics, they oug-ht at least make use of the physical equipment available in an tttempt to keep in good physical condition. RecE>ntly the g·ymnasium credit necessary for .;raduation has been reduced to one year. It is not our purpose to criticise this measure, but we cannot f::til to realize the important .;onsec1uences resulting from it. Perhaps the organization of group activ- ities, such as the intramural basl{etball league, will furnish a solution to the problem of furnishing a motivation for men to eng-age m athletics. The formation of these group activities, however, usually fails to take in nccount the non.fraternity men, all of whom are usually represented on one team. We urge this group. especially to take, more in- terest in intramural sports, to form more teams and enter the basketball, touch-foot- ball, baseball, and horseshoe pitching leagues. In this manner, the neutrals will have an opportunity, as do the fraternities, to main- tain an interest in intramural sports. counted on to run true to form by II' ork and No Play not running true to form. Jl ental U·irrus 000 As Professor Sprague <late of 1 Washington) said in that letter _of .;.----------------<t resignation: \We are a mercunal people.\ Add fifty per cent, Pro- fessor, and you're understating it. 000 People ~et intemperate about intemperance; people get intem- perate about temperance. The only thing human beings are perpetually moderate about is moderation. That's why there's so little of it. And isn't that alone enough to FRATERNITIES AND REALITIES make your blood boil? 000 To President Neilson of Smith College goes the palm for the finest acade·mic announcement on repeal: Too Much Anticipation? The debate of the Pi Alpha Phi society of Agnes Scott College last week was Resolved; That We Should Pity Our Grandchildren. The decision was granted with con- siderable relief to the negative. * • * \\Ve have to decide on our course Nothing Like Blowing a Hom of conduct as people who do not Dr. Henry Noble MacCracken, president of Vassar College, speak- ing last Thursday at the celebra- tion of the one hundredth anniver- sary of Psi Upsilon at Union Col- lege, challeng·)d the college frater- nity to \recognize the realities of life in the twentieth century.\ He went on to say that the fraternity will perform a most important service if only it will come down to earth in its attitude of social super- iority towa.r\ds others, if it will make intellectual achievement ·rather than secrecy a:nd obedience the criterion of its allegiance and, above all, if it will seek to incul- cate in its members a new code of ma.nners based upon a new realiza- tion of the value of making man- ners a fine art. wish the use of alcoholic beverages to be forbidden natwnally. The people of th'l world are going to watch to see whether .America is civilized or nol ... whether we as individuals are capable of develop- ing judgment and self-control and good taste.\ A survey conducted among the students of the University of Ver- mont by the business staff of the Vermont Cynic revealed that the three most popular brands were those which did the most adveriis- ing in the college paper. * * * 000 Each succes::;ive Marx Broth- ers fil-m field-day convinees us that the world is divided into those as were born to be like the four zanies, and thos·e as were not. And so, even though \Duck Soup\ went Subtle Sarcasm architectural on us in spots, we Marxians wen,t right on guffawing, to the annoyance of the serious- minded individuals who were \not Dr. MacCracken's comments, coming when they do, epitomize what may be called the creed of a new age. In the past, several con- ditions have been s:uch as to .foster a new recognition of the realities of life and through this a new sense of social relationship. A loss of fadth in superficialities has placed education and intellect at a premium. The sum total of the new forces has awaken·ed in thinking people a more discriminating .sense of values and a more mature code manners. amused.\ 000 Item in the Schenectady Ga- zette: \Boulder Colo., Nov. 30--Co- eds at University of Colorado have Dean Arthur A. Hauck SI)eaks To Freshmen on Use of Leisure. Headline in The Lafayette * >J< • strangers nerves this year. None A Gentle Hint to College J.\oien of the co-eds fainted In biology when rabbits were distributed for dissection. In pas;. years as many as three have fainted during ills- section classe·;.\ The Gazette heads this \Co-Eds Strongs.\ But maybe the rabbits were not quite as strong~ 000 Ripe wisdom from former Jus- tice Oliver Wendell Holmes: \The A gentleman at Amherst College advertises for sale a shaving outfit presented by Lord Amherst to a very close friend of his, and which is now obtainable at a reasonable price. Fraternities·, in their fa>ilure to appreciate these facts, have been su_b~~ted to an ever increasing art of life consists in making cor- For Their Own Good Cl\ltlc1sm. They have ·been charged with a laclt of realism in outlook with social snobbery, with having no sound sense of values, and with being a: detriment, rather than a help to the fostering of good man ners. By the Vel'y abundance of criticism 1t is evident that the fra- ternity has created grounds for sucb cormnents. rect guesses on insufficient infor- mation.\ 000 Can't somebody do something about this? The only moderately- priced edition of a great boolc, Meier-Grae.fe's masterly wm·k on Vincent Van Gogh, has the repro- ductions of the paintings of that mad wizard of color, in blackcancl- white! Students at R. P. I. have been notified that they should not dxaw more than an hour and a quarter a d:=tY· ?Utside of the regular exer- Clses m the classroom. The notice adds that if they really · want to, they can of course, draw all day Saturday. * * * 000 Light on the Nazi menta:lHy from one of them, Dr. Friedrich Sieburg: \Goethe declared that he Page Professor Ligon! could better tolerate injustice than disorder, and this harsh but crea- tive saying chara~terize·s the be- ginning of the present German History has proved the futility of attempting to run counter to any great t~e_nd of public opinion. If fratermbes are to exist and perpet uat.e those qualities a~bout them whlch are admittedly good they revolution.\ 000 Question for Today Can you think of anything much less vital than a:wa.rding a \myth- icnl gridiron title?\ IGNOTUS A psychology instructor at Co- mu;st adapt the preparation for'Ufe lumbia, in staging a mental circus whwh society is ui)holding They for the Freshman class has prom- ;oust \recognize the realitie~ of life ised an appearanc-e, fOr one night m the twentieth century\ but more only, of tr!l,ditional ghost. Besides nearly in the third dec~de of that this, he will demonstrate his meth- century, and become a part of the od of determining the place of his world by appreciaking its views human subject in the family by the not standing apart with mistake~ way he smokes a cigaret and by and outworn conceptions. the way he draws a straight 'line. -Amherst student ] J. t'

as- will to tA- J.l:l .LJ.ll.L- l.Lt llLO;l !l.H,..J.l J.ll ::; t lH U.J. 1 v:eJ.- cu- m i~ t::.t. tll- tne tue ro·m- does or OU!J; anu tllan by with con- the by in pro- ob- ncies cken, peak- Col- es of He to will and, of man- of a con- new loss has at a new sense to been a man- of e fra- for of any If them they They life more that the views, l THill CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1933 Three Winter Season at Middlebury ~·------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Quintet to Open Sports Williams and Swarthmore Elect New Grid Captains Expect Hard Tilt ~=====~=====7• Against Panthers Sport Slides by Tankmen Hope For Very Good Season Coach Leonard Has Men Ready For Tinre 'l't'ials; Veterans I<~xhibit Much Improvement Phi Sigma Kappa 20, Psi Upsilon 16. --- By MILTON A. BERGER Arnold J. Friedman Kappa Alpha 16, Beta Theta Pi Rounding out into tip-top condi-·. ·With the intensive training in 11. tion before the first game of the · preliminary work finished, Coach La;mbda Chi Alpha 27, Sigma Chi Nitchman Has Squad Rounded into Fast Outfit for the Opening Contest Tomorrow The vaz·sity football team of Wil- liams College has elected Walter Noehren as captain for the 1934 season. Noehren, who was a can- didate in the backfield for the Pur- ple ih his sophomore year turned out to be the regular center this season. His playing at that post was of such a high calibre that his teammates elected him captain. Noehren is a junior. sea:son tomorrow night at Middle-- ·Bill Leonard wi:ll culminate the 17. bury, the varsity basketball ·squad ~========;;;;;;=====;;;;;.;;====;;;;.;;========;;!.I· work-outs of the swimming team of Phi Ga:rnma Delta 21, Theta Nu has spent the past week in the run- : Epsilon 19. James Turner, who played at left tackle for Swarthmore against Union this fall, has been elected captain of football at the Pennsyl- vania college. Turner, although not an especially brilliant man, has been. consistent all fall, and de- served a regular starting post on the Quakers. Turner played a .fine 15ame against Union this year, open- mg plenty of holes in his side of the line, and paving the way for ning through of center tap plays Tomorrow night in Middlebury, Vermont, the Union quintet will .be-- . the past few weeks with time trials and a practice. game with a fast gin it.s 1933-34 campaign. There Is more to this fact this year than for today and tomorrow. Subsequent local quintet. That the Panthers tria:ls will be held each week in an rna,y expect stiff oppos· 1 ·t 10 • n from· the past 20 years, simply because the Union team is no longer the old ff e ort to prepare the squad for the the Garnet hoopmen was the con-. fashioned quintet that it once was. Basketball, like many other games, sensus of opinion among the spec- opening meet with Williams at Wil- tators at the practice tHt. The has advanced rapidly until today it ·is· as full of different methods of play liamstown on January 6. Union team was well able to hold as a football team. The old Union five used the old system of play. Today, Co-;tch Leonard declared yester- its own with an opponent fully as' day, \By hold·ing these trials I will strong as many a college five. with a new coach, they have attempted to keep up with the modern be able to secure a relative idea of Coach Nels Nitchman is still un- trend of basketball, and consequently spectators can expect to find a the strength of the tea:m and will decided as to whom he will sta:rt on. thus be able to place the strongest the Middlebury court. It is quite \new dea,!\ present in the team this year. The team has undergone possibl<3 combination against Wil- probable that his selections win more changes than the College Plan for the Intellectual Advancement of liams. not be made until game tim~. A possible starting lineup would place. Youth. Changes k~ep up with modern thought is the present cry. As To Practice During Recess Ray McDowell and Sam J·ackson in time advance.s, conditions advance with it. Today Coaeh Nitchman, al~ As the first meet will take place the forward berths, Joe Milano at immediately after the Christmas though himself a graduate of the old ty·pe of basketball, has rounded out holidays, the local members are be- NELSON W. NITCHMAN center, and Captain Puree Dow and Jack Moffett in the guard positions·. This aggregation would comprise three lettermen and two others who have secured minor awards. There would be two seniors, two juniors, and one sophomore. Uncertain Lineup It is difficult, however, to say with any degree of certainty how the Dutchmen outfit will line up. It is like Iy tha:t the Garnet coach in his first game in. that capacity, will make several shifts during the course of the game in the attempt to discover a combination. which clicks under fire. Possibly there will be two Union fives, which may be used interchangeably on the Middlebury floor .. An outstanding feature of this year's style of play, the fast break, will probably be handicapped to some extent by the small size of the Middlebury court. Union, ac- customed to playing in the roomy Alumni Gymnasium will have to acclimate itself to this change in playing conditions. Although the Garnet is at a disadvantage, play- ing its first game on it.s opponent's court, it is felt that the Panthers will not have too easy a time against the visiting Dutchman quintet. Relatively Inexperienced a \new deal\ in Union basketball. Only three lettermen remained from the quintet of last year when Nitchman took over the reins. This was a decided advantage for the new coach as he had plenty of inexperienced men to work with, and now, at the beginning of the year, has formed a team play- ing completely rutder the new system. that he uses. Even those var- sity men of last year are not sure that they Vlill show up as well on the comt this season, since they have come into contact Vlith modern basketball, and found it difficult to accustom themselves to it. 'l'he new team is a fast, smooth worldng ft \~'• with e\·ery man contributing one-fifth of the power that it possesses. One important fault of tRams of the past has b<>en thl' indh:i-dualisrn displll.yed l>y the stars of the squad. There can be no denying tbat basketball of the past has con- sisted of its Nat Holman, Benny Borgmann, Ray Kennedy, Davy Banks, Joe Lopchick, and many mor~, but they were the individual men that won fame for their team. Today these men would con- tribute considerably more to a team if they were not out for the per- sonal glory in playing. It maims no difference whether the team is professional or not. New York Cit:y fives are usually of a higher calibre than others. Many reasons may be given for this, but the fact remains that they usually have on the court five men who are capable of playing as a team. Of course, even in the modern game, contests may be played where one man may stand out as the individ- ual star because of the number of baskets he succeeded in scoring, but no doubt the reason is not that he was individual but rather that he was not played properly. In that case the other four men will center their attack around this one individual, but that is far from being an individual type of game. 'l'his fast five-man-working offense naturally has to be backed up with a strong defense. Consistent with this plan it is highly possible that a man will be forced to play both forward and guard positions. The size of the present Garnet quintet is noticeable by everyone. They lack weight and height, meaning that the bigger men may have to be switched at a.ny time to play all positions, depending on the opponent. It would be use- less to have a small man playing a giant such as one often finds on col- lege teams .. This is one item that is truly important for the Garnet now. I could go on. writing more about the present team. I think one thing that will mean a great deal from tomorrow night on is the spirit of the team. One easily noticed that there had to be an outward pepping up of the eleven. Let's hope that the present quintet does not lose the spirit it has acquired since the start of practice this year. The team has been devel•oped to the degree where all men are playing the same kind of basketball with the same spirit. They are a fighting team. Here!s to their success·. BOCllliY WITll HAMILTON ing requested to practice daily in the pool during the vacation while the others will attempt to find means to swim in their respective home towns. By following this pro- gram, Coach Leonard expects to have his men in \tip-top shape for the encounter with Williams.\ Of the new men on the squad, Griswold, Leak, Poggenpohl. and Keens az e doing well in the dashes, dista:nce, breaststroke, and dives respectively. Robert Oppenheim, Joe Maney, and Captain Neese are exhibiting fine speed and endurance in the dashes and back stroke. The foz·mer two men will share the bur- den of work in the dashes and dis- tance race::;. Argesinger, Bm·d, and Brown a:re rounding into excellent form in the breast stroke and pre- sent an extremely strong array to choose from. \The team looks just as fast as last year's squad and should pro- duce gratifying results,\ stated Coach Leonard. \Our relay team, notably our weak spot in recent years, is much stronger and faster than those in tlle past.\ SPORTING GOODS TOBOGGANS SLEDS SKIIS SNOW SHOES SKATES and SHOES WARM CLOTHING and FOOTWEAR fo1• SPORTSMEN Ailing Rubber Co. 254 STATE STREET HENRY•s BARBER SHOP BARBERING e~nd MANICURING 4 N.Y. C. Arcade Like thi•f~ year'$ f()oi;l;lall squa:d, the basketball squad contains a number of relatively inexperienced men, sophomores and juniors. Most of these men were outstanding on their freshmen teams. From the 1931 frosh five, \Jiggs\ Rotunda, Ralph Semerad and Jack Gain, be- sides McDowell and Moffett, should see action in the Middlebury en- counter. Members of the 1932 frosh team were Joe Milano, Van Wal- dron, and Mike Priznar. In the schedule released yester- day by Hamilton College for their b.Qckey team, Vnion appears as the opponent for the Continentals on February 10. The game is listed to be played at Clinton on the excel- lent rink the Blue and Buff possess. This rink has been incidental in !-----------------------------...J malting hockey one of the most --;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;; Little is known about the Middle-- bury team except that tomorrow's game will open its sea:son, ~nd that in its Captairj., Dick Sweet, 1t boasts of a player of high quality. Sweet fills the center and sometimes the forward position. He is tall and should give the Union c·enter a hard tussle on the tap. A confident ball- handler, he is especially dangerous near the basket where he is accus- tomed to score on pivoting plays. 0 Ketz Plans to Form Winter Indoor Track Team at Union In view of the fact that there is a great deal of goo~ mater}al, Coach Wilford H. Ketz IS plannmg to form a winter track team which would engage i:n several meets in Albany, Troy, and perhaps in the· Mlllrose Games in New York City. Three years ago winter ind?or traclt at Union was an outstandmg sport. At this time Union could boast of a number of exceptionally fine runners a:nci jumpers. Several men have been working out in the gymnasium during the past few weel~s. There are several fine candidates for the dashe.s, hur- dles, and high jump. popular winter s·ports on the Ham- :: ilton hill. The Continental sched:ule now includes some very high class opposition, such as the University of Minnesota, which will meet Hamilton this year. The University of Minnesota is considered to have one of the best sextets in the mid- west. The Ha:milton team will spend the Christmas recess at Lake Placid where it will play exhibition matches with the Williams sextet. Other teams on the Continental schedule include Colgate, Middle- bury, Mass. State, Victoria, and Boston University, all high class hockey squa:ds. THE GAZETTE PRESS PR.IHTERS AUC·HENPAUGH'S BRASS RAIL SCHENECTADY'S SMART ·RENDEZVOUS IN THE MARINE ROOM LOBSTERS WHERE WE ALL EAT CLAMS WHERE WE ALL MEET CHOPS STEAK OYSTERS MIXOLOGIST DE LUXE 8 State Street Phone 2-6135 Opp. Hotel Van Curler Schedule Tonigbt-7:30, Delta Upsilon vs. Theta Delta Chi. 8:30, Delta Chi vs. Neutrals. Tomorrow-1:15, Kappa Nu vs. Phi Sigma Kappa. 2:15, Delta Pi Nu vs. Beta Theta Pi. 3:15, Psi Upsilon vs. Neutra'ls. 4:15, Phi Sigma Delta vs. Phi Gamma Delta. 5:15, Delta Chi vs, Sigma Chi. Monday--7:30, Alpha Delta Phi vs. Beta Theta Pi. 8:30, Delta Chi vs. Lambd.3. Chi Alpha. Official U. C. Photographers Portrait and Commercial Photographing THE WHITE STUDIO 215 State Street U. C. Representative T. WHIPPLE, Chi Psi the only score. · ~Th;\'A;;;\i;~b;rli Service With A Smile PHONE 4-4525 m 509 UNION STREET iii m m ::::m:m:::m:::::mm::::m:m::m:::m::::mm:m:m:::: America's favorite SHORT CUT LONG DISTANCE Miles shrink when you turn to Long Distance telephone service. You can get \there and back\ in record time. Improvements are constantly fitting the service more and more closely to the public's needs. Faster connections, higher quality transmission, \bargain hours\ after 8:30 P. M. Business today finds Long Distance a reliable and economical short cut to sales. You'll find it a pleasant short cut back home. BELL SYSTEM WHY NOT SAY \HELLO\ TO MOTHER AND DAD? -RATES ARE LOWEST AFTER 8:30P.M. • '

l .I Four Two Plays Express Humor and Pathos --- (Continued from Page ll agents of similar ltind to angels and devils. This type of play i>l of special dramatic interest because it gave opportunity for invention and this was significant in the deve.loJ?- ment of the secular drama-as 1t 1s today a~ rJiotinr;ni~hPrl from ~he \saintly\ or \miracle\ plays wh1ch were produced in the church, rhnr<'hYHrcl. ot' bv churchmen in the strePts · and pag'eants. The \mor- ality\ may be said to be the begn;- ning of the drama as we know 1t today. . \Everyman\ Pra:tsE'd Professor Clarence Griffin Child of the University of Penn::;ylvan·ia, whose translati0ns of the 15th cen- tury plays the Mountebanks are using, say.; of \Everyman:\ \There is no finet· example of the simplicity acnd appropriat:nl'S>l .of these (moralities), the senous dig- nity and effectiveness of didactic purpose, the dramatic . ap~eal through graphic charactenzatwn, the intens.ely vital humor and pathos, which the morality at its best could attain, tha:n 'Everyman.' The p0wer of this play is apparent in the reading, but one who hn;s read it only and has nut ~<>en 1t acted might perhaps question whether it could carry, save to the medieval minds, its double appeal as a play and as an allegory. Those, however, who have seen its rep1 e- s·entations, will bear witne;;s that in no way does one stan.d in the way of th~ other. The absorbing dra- THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1933 matic interest and the allegorical role of \FeJ.lowship\ who is willing significance of the dialogue and ac- to connive at murder, or pleasantry, tion are absolutely at one, and are. but has not the courage to follow followed concunently as one. One· \Everyman\ to his grave. ,----------'\-------:· We have legally regained a cer- GARNET PICTURES tain freedom that was set aside in 1920. But it is a freedom not syn- Buy Christmas Seals may even go so far a·s to say that There are good seats· stiH left its moral effect upon the spectator for the performances tonight and of the present day is not materially: tomorrow nig·ht at 8:30 o'clock. less than that it exercised in thE: Students may get them free at the pa;;t l when Columbus discove:·ed box-office. Non-students will be America), so truly is it a work of charg-ed one dollar, Due to the Christmas rush no onomous with license. It is rather more junior individual pictures · ·a freedom to pvactice temperance • can be taken until after the · in a sane manner. If this code is. Christmas recess. The plan an- rigidly followed, the abstainer will nounced in chapel yesterday has have no legitimate cause for com- ;;ince baen changed. plaint, and the man who enjoys the . genius in its kind ... •· Coi\Len Has Lead S. Ralph Cohen '37 has the role of \Everyman.\ Although a fresh- man and in his first role with the . .-~ . Temperance Problem In Colleg·tate Digest to Pay Fot'e With Repeal Here Fol' Unusual Snapshots __ _ Mountetlank:;, ht:> ha:; wdtcale'<.i iH I - ~ I ,cl>ntiuut:d ftum r\'~\ :1) 1ehearsals that he has great versa-. Student readers of The Concord- years under the social .phHosophy tility in interpreting the many iensls and of Collegiate Digest will of :M:r. Volstead, sincerely desire a muuck. lh<>.L Lhu Jl<Ll t 1<-cJUllc~. llc }J., jJaiu $1 fut unusual .,;nap:;hut:l rt'lurn lu •Ueh a. :;Lalt: uf cu11.upliuu i:l carefree, then arrogant, stricken of student and faculty activities, it -yes down-right rottenness. with fe&r, wretch~d. humble, and was announced today by George finally contented with a peaceful Cory, editor of 'the Concordiensis. Need Temperance resignation to the will of the Heav- This offer is being made by The The crying need of the present is • enly Father. Concordiensis, and by CoHegiate for tempe1•ance. The typical Amer- · l>'. Dean Roylance, Jr., '34 gives a Digest to foster student photogra- ican is dangerously liable to· carry powPrf111 conception or \Death.\ He phy, and to give all students the all of his actions to a degree of ex- gives much point to the play with opportunity of competing for pub- cess. He is enthusiastic in his his remarkable charactel·ization. lication honors in the magazine make-up. His motto is \to do Another great characterization is rotogravure section that is dis- things in a big way.\ He often acts that of \Goods\ by Ha1·vey P. Gr·oes- tributed weekly. first and thinks afterwards. Amer- beck '35. This is 'l highly imagin- All photos should be sent to the ican tourists throughout Europe ative conception of man's earthly Editor, Collegiate Digest, Madison, have, in the past, been notoriously po8oe8sion:l, personified. Wisconsin, or should be sent di- criticized for their d,runkenness and wl<'ive Wits\ a. Sly Role In Reynulu M. Crane'·s '35 inter- pretation of \Five Wits\ one real- izes how \living by one's wits\ has come to have its particular conno- tation, so vivid is this sly character. Paul \Vas.;man,.,dorf, a ·oenio1, play.ing his first major role with the Mountebanks, gives a sensitive understanding to the part of \Dis- cretion,\ and John B. Bowling, Jr., a freshman, make.; one l'ealize the imperisha·ble quality of \Good DE>E>ds. ' GE>oz·ge P. Haskell, another frp,;hrnan, will be enjoyed in the rectly to this newspaper. All photos boisterous behavior. This is unfor- that are selected for publication tunate. But it seems to be an indi- will be paid for at the rate of $1 cation that the American is more each, with no limitation made on susceptible to immoderation than the number accepted from any one the European. Perhaps it is. in his student. blood. ROSENDALE FLOWER SHOP Sc:heneCJtady's Telegraphic Florisot Flowers of Quality 1~4 Jay Street Phone 4-0540 Opp. City Hall stimulation of certain beverages will have little cause to fear a l0ss of his privHege. For the \rfght\ to drink, like the right to do anything, is essentiaJly a pri:vilege bestowed upon the individual by society. This can be given as wel:J as taken away. Drinking 1 t:llld.ill;:, d.ll inJ.l \.iJ.u..W 1 matter <mly until its consequences involve the welfare of society or the £afcty o.f indh·iduals. The ethic!\ of . 1 the problem all focus upon the es- ~==========~~=~ sence of temperance. · 1: --o-- COLLEGE GIRILL Fight Tuberculosis Going to the Dogs Sandwiches and Gate crashing in theaters at . , Berliieley by the students. of the BeveJ•ages University of California is a thing ·.I A TRIAL MA.ltES A of the past. Fourteen police dogs CUSTOMER will guard the doms of four Ber- · Cor. Eastern Ave.-Jackson PI. keley theaters. EVERYTHING lS JAKE RESTAURANT UCENSE -R. L. 3038- Popular Prices SANDWICH -INN A-LA-CARTE DELICATESSEN--THE GOLD NUGGET 631 STATE ST. OF FINE TURKISH TOBACCOS ALWAYS tnefinest to!Jaccos ALWAYS the jiuest WoJ-bmansltip ALWAYS .luchies please I - why luckies taste better, smoother On certain mountains in the Near East is a limited collar of earth-called in Turkish, \Yacca.\ Tobaccos grown there cost as high as $1.00 a pound. Carefully they are examined, leaf by leaf. Often it takes a man a \\hole day to select t\vo pounds of certain of these fine tobaccos. Lucky Strike is the world's biggest user of fine Turkish tobaccos. For these tender, delicate Turk- ish lea\·es are blended with choice tobaccos from our o\\ n Southlaml-to make your Lucky Strike a cigarette that is fully packed -round and firm-free from loose ends. That's why Luckies taste better, smoother. \if's toasted\' FOR THROAT PROTECTION-FOR BETTER TASTE

-~ ~: LL PI. GET Daley Much Gratified By Spirit Shown At Alumni Banquet Vol. LVII, No. 23 UNION COLLEGE, .SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, DECEMBEH 12, 1933 Inflation Is Merely Books~Ie Bl·ings- in $185 Union Represents Geor~eii;l~yLa~~i~IStr~eb~l Waldron To Speak Olil. \College Spi-rit\ At Open Forum Of Y C~-vbinet; Others Follow PRICE FIVE CENTS and Cohen Star in l . . d'C j . . .For Student Loan Fund M . . d ch· AI .. s . . t At P nctre.asec·- ~ ·urlreti!CY• Between $1;-B!n;-;185 was real- .A· texM_ICOd ainc·· . ·~al· F .. ··llDl.t· nbl l·lPDI~l . T· WO· M· ount· ebanlrs U lfi lfC1l a lOR ized in the book sale conducted · ·. 0 · e · · -OHRCI· 00• · a lllllei' · · · · ·. · . 1.. last week for the benefit of needy · Plays ---------- students by the Faculty Woman's Popubr Concept Defines U As Club, it was announced yesterday by Mrs. Harrison ·c. Coffin, who Increase of Money in Circu- was in charge of the sale. The pro- lation Without Any Backing ~~~~~nr~o:: ~~~~d over to the John Judge Creates Stir by. His Denunciation of 'The. League and ABCP Powers Sports Editot· of the Tribune 1 Contrasts This Spirit With 1 That of Other lristitutions Tl'iiJ for Mountebanks The Mountebanks have re- ceived an invitation ftom Keuka Coll~\ge :Jt Keulm Park, N. Y., to present their fall plays, \The Second Shepherd's Play\ and \Everyman\ at that school on January 12 or 13. j. Early English Dramtts, Direc- -~ ted by Carroll, Presented Twice to Nearly Full House In light of the unfavorable con-: 1\ trO. NE-Y STANDA·R·DIZED ditions existing this year, the sale S A NT SESSION • :t was extremely successful, accord- Dl ARM ME MANY ALUMNI PRESENT ing to Mrs. Coffin. She expressed . her appreciation of the support Appl'oximately $3,500,000,000 given by the faculty and residents of Schenectady and was particu- Gold as Reserves in Federal larly enthusiastic about the interest France Forced to !Reduce Arm- Was Impressed by Loyalty of aments to German Level by· Alumni of Notre Dame Who. R t B k th M shown ·by students. eserve o ac e r oney As was the case last year, all· Opinion of Other Powers Came to 'Hear Jim ('rowley Although the MountPbankR have not definitely dec1ded to make the trip, plans are being ~tudied to send the plays out on a week-end tour, which would mclude appearances at Keuka, -~nd other nearby institutions, ~uch as Wells College. If it is wund pos~ible to arrange such a tour, a company of thilty-two mPn is expetced to make the trip. books left over from the sale will be turned over to the Ellis hospital By A. J. Di CAPRIO, '34 and the Schenectady City Hospital. Inflation may .be explained by two· definitions, the theoretical defini- tion and the popular definition or. concept. Two delegations, each consisting of S'iX men, headed by Donald Mac- Kenzie, '34, represented China and The following comment appeared December 11, 1933 in the column o. The theoretical definition states that inflation is merely the increase of currency in circulation, it does not state whether or not the in- creased amount of currency is backed up by a sufficient amount of gold. The popular concept defines in- flation as the increase of money in circulation without any backipg. The general public always has in mind, wheh it hears the term in- flation, the experiment attempted by France in 1790-1796 and the Ger- man experience following the World war-but these were cases of increased circulation without sufficient gold backing. Germany's Gold Confiscated In Germany's case a large portion of her gold was confiscated by the victorious allies in compelling Ger- many to meet her reparation payments. Naturally Germany's moneys, without sufficient amounts of backing, became very much de- preciated in value. In her attempt to help herself she printed more money, and this resulted in further chaos. Now, what is money? Is it some- thing important in itself? No! It is merely a medium of exchange. We could just a:; well use wampum, piPC'Ps of furniturP. or any other C'ommodity to serve thP same pur- pose. Our currency is standardized and accepted l:ly the Nation as a whole to facilitate trade. We have approx· imately $3,500,000,000 of gold as re- serves in the Federal Reserve Sys- tem to back the amount of cur- rency in cii culat!on. According to the Federal Reserve Act of 1913, it is considered safe to issue two and one half paper dollars or Federal Reserve Notes for every dollar of gold we possess. Various Kinds of Moneys There are vaiious other kinds of moneys, for example the Federal Reserve Bank Notes and the Green- backs, which demand other ratio backings. The Federal Reserve Notes are considered the most de- sirable and in time are expected to supplant the old National Bank Notes or Greenbacks. Today we have about $3,500,000,- 000 in gold and against this. approx- imately $5,500,000,000 dollars in cir• culation. Using the ratio of two and one half paper dollars to one dol!a1 in gold, we· can issue up to $8,750,- 000,000; or in other words, could in- crease our circulation $3,250,000,000 and still be within the required 40 per cent gold backing required for Federal Reserve Notes by the Fed- eral Reserve Act. Today the price of gold has been raised to approximately- $35.00 per ounce thereby increasing the value of our gold reserve $13.33 per ounce or $2,250,000,000. Against this in- creased valuation we could increase (Continued on Page 2) ---0·--- Schubert Club Will Sing JFamiliar Songs Thursday Horwitz, Cummings. In Buffalo Debate Philomatheans Arg·ne Gold Standard Question in Prep- aration for F01·dham Debate Clinging to the habit of debating and discussing only up-to-the-min- ute topics of universal interest for the education and elucidation of its members, the Philomathean Debat- mg Society, last night, was the scene of a heated argument on the subject: Resolved, That the United States Should Return To the Gold Standard Under Present Conditions. The judges awarded the victory to the negative c-onsisting of C. Nes- · sel, '37 and A. Greenburg, '36 against the affirmative consisting of C. E. Olson, '36 and R. Kendrick, 35. On Friday, November 15, Union will engage in its third inter-colle- giate debate of the season against the University of Buffalo over WGY. The subject will be, Re- solved: That The Polish Corridor Should be Returned to Germany. Union, defending the affir·matlve side, will be represented by Sey- mour HolWJtz, '36 and Clark Cum- mings, '37. Union'::~ debate record thus far includes a victory over Hartwick and a defeat by Albany State Colelge. Plans are already being made for the debate with Fot·dham Univer- ;~ity to be held over WGY on Jan· uary 12. The topic will be Resolved: That The United States Should Re- turn to the Gold Standard Under Present Conditions. The team will consist of Thomas Crowley jr., '34, president of Philomathean, and Carl E. Olson, '36. It is still not known what side Union will defend a~ Fordham has been given the choice of sides. Next weelt in preparation for the Fordham affair the same topic will be discussed. C1owley and Olson will defend one side and their op· ponents are as yet unannounced. ---0 Christmas Recess Not To Be Extended, Says Garis At the first fortnightly student body meeting yesterday morning, Henry Gulnac, '34, read the follow· mg letter which he received from Dean Charles F. F. Garis explaining the· reason why the Christmas holi- days cannot be extended three days: December 9, 1933 Mexico at the first meeting of the George Daley, '92, the spo. t,; edi<.o. year of the Model Council of the of the Herald Tribunt•: 1 J..eague of Nations at Syracuse Uni- The Schenectady Alumni A:o..,ocia 1 versity Friday and aSturday. The tion of Union College i~ back of < policy of holding two meetings an- .sound and sane idea. At the clo;;( nually of the Model Council is be- of the football season it gives & ing tried out for the first time this dinner to tte seniot s of the gt itiit or. year. The six co11eges which par- squad in app1 eciation of the -\el viet ti\cipated included Union, Wells, El- -rendered amd ilie:spective of wheth· mira, Syracuse, Colgate and Roch- er the team has had a good yea! u. ester. a bad. The agenda which the Council ac- As a rule the alumni of any edu cepted includede eight questions. cational institution gtow v..a1 ml) The report on the Leticia dispute enthusiastic over a winning tea~. pn which Frank Squires, '34, and an·d gather together to applaud anL Joseph Woolman, '35, repre~ented glority, .but ra1 ely are they anythin1, China and Mexico respectively; 2. but cold to a losmg team ana alti<;- The report on the riots in Palestine ulate only over a change oi the on which Alexander Turner, '34, coaching policy. and William Prest, '34, represented It was refres·hing, then, to se 1 ve C):i.ina and Mexico respectively. 3. as toa.gtmaster at a dinner at thl' The report from the financial com- Moha:wlt Golf Club in Schenectad) mittee in regard to League Loans, . !ast Tuesday even.ing given to thL with Raymond Bonk, '34, represent-· seven seniors of the football SlJUato iQg Mexico and Homer Jennings, d.l1d the captain-elect for next yem '35, representing China. 4. The re- w-ithout hearing one word of criti· port on the D.sarrr.ament Confer- cism over a disappointing :;eason 01 ence with Mexico represented by a single \!mock· against the coach Edward Barna, '34, and China rl\!p- or any of his policies. The shov.. resented by Gilbert Woodside, '35. of sphit was invigorating. Waldron to Start Y Discussions Jan .. 17 l'olleg·e Secrl!'tm·y \Viii Speak On College Spirit; Others to Follow at Regular Intervab The I'Cclult::J of the recent straw- vote taken by the Y-Cabinet in Daily AssPmbly hu:; bePu an- nounced and the following p!O- gram:; have been schedulE-d: Profesoor Charles N. Waldron will speak at 8 p. m. Jan. 17, 1934 in the Old Chapel on \Colleg~ Spirit.\ Some of the question~ which Will b-: di,cussed arP: What 5. The report on the meaning of the I was impressed also by the fact clause requiring members to fulfill tha.t !epiesentatives of at least ten league obligations before withdraw- other colleges were present, attract- has been the history of Union Col- a!, with Thaddeus Cowell, '34, repre- ed by the spirit of good fellowship .ege ;;pi! it'? Should it be revived'; senting Mexico and Donald Mac- Kenzie, '3 4 , representing China. 6 _ .md by the ohow of loyalty of twel vr Is :;p1 rit e~,;ential to a college? I:;, The r-eport on the Chaco clis\Utl or fifteen Notre DamP alumni whc ct outgiown\' Ar<> pep nwt>ting' ,.. turned out to hear Jim Crowley, one 1 • ., •• with John JudgE>. '3-t, rE>pr<>•enting of the Four Hor:;crnen and nov. W<>I thwhii<'. If a nt·w rolJPgP ~pint MPxico and Char-It'S R. Frost, \3::>. coach of the Fotdham eiPven, mukt·: cs tu devei\P· what form should it representing China. 7. The report the chief address. 1 1 ake·: ill regard to the agitation in the ::saa 1 , with Haynwnd Bonk repre· In his talk CrowlPy laid mu•·l. 1 A: rc•gular intpn·al~ following senting Mexico and Fzank Squires ~tle-\s on the va!UPs of football t• I P1ofe\~or \\·aldron's addrt>~~- the'E- representing China. 8. The repot·t .those who play the game, nr.t thP llolHC'' will be di,.eussed: of the Commissioner of Minorities least of which aie the _as»ol'iationr;! Pwfe:;>oi John I •. Ma1 ch will db- with MacKenzie representing China established and. the fnen<l~ t:tadr I cuss \The Evolution of Re;Igion.\ and Pre;;t speaking for Mexrco. \liP made. nPw frlE>nds at that dmnPt !!1.- tall' will inc-lut.lt· the following and so dtd I. I <J.Uestion,;: What form did religion Judge, '34, Denounces U>agut> ----o~~- I tdke in its earliest beginnings? The highspot of the meeting was (' I B B d A Whnt are it~ basic forces? Do they reached In the Saturday mo.ning aro s to e roa cast t 1 Jn<li1'3tf' tht' futllrP of rPJigion\ Pro- session when John Judge, rappor- Ch .· t . 8 F ·t • .. 1' IP~-or :\larch i-< wPll·rl'rtd in th\ tcur on the Chaco Dispute and liS rna~ Ollg es 1\ a field~ of anth:·opnlogy and arC'haeo· chiarman of the Mexican delega- --- I .ogy '~\ wPll as psy<'holo~,oy and Pan tion, in vehement language de- C b I discuss this subject in a masterly nounced the league for it~ \pro- The ollege Y has made ela or- way. longed inertia\ and condemned the ate arrangemE-nts to hold its fir~t Dr. Etlwa1d Ellery will talk o.r. ABCP Powen for aggravating the annual Christmas song oC! \\icc on! 'Science and Religion.\ H~ will at- dispute by their muddling efforts Sunday evening, December 1 7. A l tack this subj£'ct f!om the~e an· to solve the problem and for mak· ;;!e.;: r~ there any place m the ing the affair a \total fiasco.\ The large crowd of townspeople and I world of ~cienct> for religion? Do delegate from Argentina took ex\ students will hear the carols broad· ! the two cc;mflict? In the light 01 ception to the sll·ong phraseology cast from amplifiers in the chapel; modern bCience, wh:;t can we b~­ of the report and insisted that sev- tower with sufficient volume to l11eve? Dr. Ellery, bemg both a scl- eral claus~s of ths report be strick- reach nearly all parts of the cam- I enlist and a preacher is especially en out. Th~ argument between the pus. 1 fitted to lead this discussion. two countriE-s became so heated as Dr. Elmer Tidmarsh wlll lead in p 10 feo;,. 0 r PPte 1 I. Wold has ehos- to cause Judge to accuse Argentina - · · · · h. 1'h M · f of having economic interests in the singing ass.isted by a large , en a~ . Is ,topic :· e ents o (Continued on Page 4 ) screen onto which a moving picture 1 Pto~elytmg. HaVIng spent some machine will throw the words of . years in China, Professor Wold ---o the songs. The college glee club and ~ained a first hand knowl~.>dge of Bernhardt Pictures Given choir will sing group:; of songs 1 c- . lor~.>ign mis,;ions. Should there be To Mountebanks Theatel • lated to Christmas. Al\o Dr. Titi· 1 foreign missions'.' Ha~ any religion marsh will play several Christmas 1 the right to force itself upon anoth• songs on the organ. The singing, er? Is a program of proselyting e>'· Mr. Henry Gulnac, Alpha Delta Phi Fraternity- Mr. Charles N. Waldron. secre- Union College, City tary of the college and of the Grad- will begin at 8:30 p. m. · sential to the vitality of a religion? My dear Gulnac: uate Council, recently presented two posters to 'I'he Mountebanks· which By regulation the Christmas re- are now adorning the anteFoom of cess extends from the noon of De- the theatre. They are both pictures cember 20 to the fifth of January. of Satah Bernhardt in different Only when this latter date comes on roles that she has enacted. a Saturday is the vacation extended The one is a po~e of her as \Ham- Mock Congress Once Existed Here; Juniors and Seniors Were Delegates to the following Monday. Jet,\ while the other shows her as For reasons which seem to be for \Lorenzaccio\ from the play of the By NORMAN R. STEWART STAGE EFFECTS GOOD Design by Markman, Lighting By White, Adaptation by Mr. Carroll Combined Well By JOHN P. ROBERTS, '34 Und\er the direction of Mr. Ed· ward L. Canol! the Mountebanks presented as their Fall .production the \Second Shepherd's Play\ and \Everyman\. Performances were given on Friday and Saturday eve- nings of last week. C1 iticism has been voiced by some ;tuden ts a.gainst the choice of plays eor this production. The fact that ;mly eighty per cent of the seats were occupied during the two per· forman<:e.s is laid to the rather :J.bstruse nature of the drama se· · ected. But regardless of the effect m attendance, we believe the choice 1f plays was justified -not from the 1.musement angle, but as part of a ;ultural program. We enjoyed tlle :~lays, but our enjoyment is prob- ably traceable to previoUJS acquain- tance with this field. We can easily ~E'e how the medieval material would bore the man of modern tem- per, but why place the blame ex- ~lusively on the early drama? After all the radio and the movies are monuments to the policy of \Give- the-people-what-they-want\ - and smell the foul odors emananating 'here from! There's a possibility :hat the Mountebanks are solllld in the·ir policy of producing the best dra,ma of all ages, as facilities per- mit. \The Hairy A\pe\ by O'Neill, the spring production, will do right hy thP enthw;ia,;\.-5 of modernHy. Ut•long tu Ea1·ly English Dl-ama Roth plays presented belong to vNy early periods of English J1 ama. The '\Second She]:Jherd\.;; P:ay··, a miracle of the Towncle•. ur \Valicfield Cycle, is con:;tructed :m two di~tinct themeiO: the farce .:untedy starri-ng the sheep-rustler :\1ak, and the alti-stically foreign ;;tory of the Nativity. Mr. George Stroebel carried the part of Mak and easily won the honors in this pla-y. Hi~ personal -''!Jpearance ga \\e hin1 all he needed to fit the comic role; his fine diction and character.ization adequately .;upported his natural gif\ts. Julius Sitney, Robert Smith and John Rooney gave good ac{lounts of :hemselves as the three :;hepherds. \Everyman\ is the flower of the 'llorality plays that chat acterized dramatic activity in England prev- ;ous to the Elizabethan era. Medieval Drama of Salvation \Everyn1an\ epitomizes the me- dieval drama o.f S•alvation. The suc- cess or failure of its modern re- vival depends in the main upon the c1ppmximation of a simple religious 'ltmDsphere. Unless. the audience is made to sense the reality of the \'lmg. going on in the mind of Everyman, th·e play is void of meaning and becomes dull and :>tupid. It 1s a colossal task to re- vive the \eternal verities\ of anoth- er day ·and age, but upon the de- ;ree to which this is accomplished ~hould 1 est the p:easure or distaste Jf thP house. S. Ralph Cohen as Everyman sus- <Continued on Page 4) 0---- New York Alumni to Hold Annual Dinner Tomorrow the best interests of all concerned same name by Alfred deMusset. The period from 1820 to 1845 instituted a mock Congress. The Several numbers familiar to the administraiion ha·s d~cided not The posters were taken to the served to accentuate all that Was I delegates ~o _this body werC' com- --- Union students are on the program to change this regulation regarding Eastern Avenue Art Shop where (liStilictive about Union College. and 1 posed of JUmors and seniors; the The Alumni Association of Nc' which the Schubert Club under Dr. the Christmas recess. they were sprayed with shellac, during this period the graduates of latter took the part of Senators and York City will hold its annual d Tidmarsh's direction will offer Cordially yours, mounted on board and framed be- Union began to attain the p10mi- I the f01 met wei e Repr£>sentatives in ner tomonow evening. The affu Thursday evening at 8:30 o'clock in Langer's moti~n of ~~J:\m<'{ fore being hung in the anteroom to nence in professional and public life I thP lower house. The monitor of will be held at the Western Unive Memorial Chapel. As in the past Hanna Hall. which has ever since been recog-j this as~cmbly wns the professor of I sitics Club at the corner of FLU. students will be admitted for fifty \That compulsory student body ----o------ nized' of Union alumni in general. RhetOIIC who acted as both speak- a :venue and forty-second street cents. Miss Mary Hopple, contrillto, meetings be held every other Mon- Five Union Fre....,hmen Play It hati been for many yea!;; a wm-j cr of the House and Pre~i.dent of Among the speaker:; will be several is the guest artist. day in the Memorial Chapel with mon remark that the training re· the Senate. The student:; . m each I college officials including: Dr. Ed- \Th M h f th w· Men\ a regular Daily Assembly on the a!- In Schenectad,v Production ceived at L'nion seemed to be espc- 1 cbs~ C'hosP thl' states WhiC'h they 1 ward Eller-·, President Emer·tus 1 e arc o e lSe · ·' ternate Mondays,\ was voted upon • carol by Harvey Gaul with the t d ___ cially practical, fitting men for sue- would reprc,cnt, and were ~xpectcd I Charles A. Richmond, Secretary oriental atmosphere very marked, <l.nd defea e · cessful leadership. This was due di- to speak a1~d vote for their states 1 C~arles N. Waldron, and Nelson W. and an English carol, \Pat-a-Pan\ MEET-IN--G-S-~- 0 - 8 -T-P-ONED Five members of the Class of rectly to the influence of Dr. Eli- on all legi,latiw matt<>r\. The~P N1tchman. The members of the are on the program to be sung Sun- 1937 have minor parts in the forth- phalet Nott. meetings became so popular among I class of 33 who live in New York day afternoon by the Union College ---- coming Civic Players poroduction, the _students. and Dr. Not.t reali_?:Pd arl' to be the guests of the ciub. Choir. The former number was. The American Association of Uni- The Swan, Wlhich is to be pre::;ented Dr. Nott's interests were ~ 0 broad. th~ Import,mce. of such an orgamza-~ Jooeph G. Fenster ~03 traced the sling by the choir last year. ''Short- versity Professors have changed the four evenings beginning Wednes- his spir-it was so cathol~c . .tha·t it tion, that the plan was entered in \History of a :Law Suit\ for the ning Bread,\ sung by the Glee Club date of their meeting from Decem- ·day, December 13 in the Civic Play- could truly be said, \Nothing tha.t · the regular curriculum. I members of the Union Colege Club in its fall concert, is also on the ber 14 to January 11. The meeting house on Church street · concerned man was foreign to him. The proceedings were conducted I of Brooklyn Law School at its re- Schubert's program. The Club is wili be held at Dr. Grover's as Wallace Hughes and George Has- It was natural, therefore, that the' !-Inder regula-r parliamentary ru.l\es. cent ·m_e.etin~ in .Richardson Hall. singing a voca:l arrangement o,f,_ originally schequled ··and. the kell will tak~ the -pa,rt.s of the Hus- students. at Union should\ go fprth mterpyeted- and ~nforced by the After h1s cliscussion, an informal M11nning's \Luxembourg GardEmS, sp· eaker will be Dr. Edward Ellery s-ars, while J-ames 'Doyle and Carl- with a store of practical knowledge presiding officet. As Dr. Charle!l A. 1 foJ\Um was held. which Dr. Tidmarsh has played: sev- on \College Solidarity.\ ton Garl'ison will be Lackeys. John not usually gained in college. It was Richmond writes, \It is difficull to The club will be represented at eral times at his weekly organ re- --- B. Dowling Jr., will take the part almost ·Inevitable that many gradu- conceive of a better method of the New York Alumni Association citals, and the \Arab Song\ by Because of the varSity bas~etbail of a count. · ates of Dr. Nott's time should en- awakening intelligent interest in dinner tomorrow night by several Joseph Clokey, a composer well game tonight, the French and· Ger- Mr. J. F. Bagster-Collins of the· ter public or political life, governmental questions, and gain- members, including William R R. known to Sunday afternoon Chapel man clubs will not meet until the· English Department is directing the For such students as WE're inter- ing familiarity with legislative pro- La Flure \33 who holds the i93S.: audiences, following Tuesday, December 19 • production, ested in political training, there was ceedings.\ 34 club scholarship.

·.• Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1933 noteworthy fact that these women have de- ~ voted so m.uch of thei·r time to an enterprise F A R R A G Q 11 ~ M'USIC ;~;:n,~~~i~~,\~~ ~~~~:f~t~~:i:~~~~ellnion Col- Wo ,,. ooorjoyW to notify you\ and foore under tho lamp of=~ u•==R•a•n•k-in;;;;;e;;;;;b;;;~-·-in•m=a;;;;;n;;;;·-· . In these times of compulsol'y economy by guys that a measly six and one-half ages. Recall that the cmtured man ,.... ,;chool days stand between you and was once described as he who, no \A Causa J>e,·sa Parole Assai\ FouNDED 1876 everyone, it is natural that college students your Yuletide wassail. matter wlrat befell him, always had Wednesday evening the Don Cos- h ld fi d 't d'ff' It t 'd th * * * \omethi-11g left. sacks gave the most pertect demon- Affiliated With Pi Delta Epsilon S OU R l more l lCU 0 prOVl · e · e * * * st'·ation of choral singing we have On hand for the Don Cossacks • wherewithal fm· their education. Scholar- last Wednesday night. They Are The Gridiron Club staged ils Win-. ever heard; enunciation, tone, ·re- ~<\s$odnto.-d @olh.'ginh' 'ij.h-rss .• - --- ~~!HE - - ~ 1 q } ] ' NAT•ONAI;_~ fovERA&E) J () J4 ~ The official newspaper of the students of l!nion College. Published Tuesdays and Fndt;tys throughout the college ye-ar, except dunng Christmas and spring recesses, h' d l t b t d t Good, LWe were pmticularly en-ter Dinner: graphic account in the sponsetothedirectorwerealliault- S ·IpS an' oans can no e gran e · 0 every- thralled by the Httle fellow who Sunday Times, Bection 2. If 'you less. The term \chorus\ hardly ap- one who seeks aid. Consequently we feel played drop-the-handkerchief be- don't believe that satire can ·be plies to the Don Cossacks; they ate hl .nd the !1\ne of hi\\ n1er1y men) effective, simply scan the descrip- a choral orchestra. that the Various agencies of Union are to be The Phi Delts, ~as the Fre~ch tion of this symposium. The pa-. The most astounding if not the Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 A d - th 1 b b greatest feature of their singmg 1s congratulated for the attempts they are tl~~ 1 fn ~~ ~~t~~J!~~ fo~~~~ of ~~; ~it~ t~re R~os:v~~fa~t,NR~~~;J, the tremendous range or tneir making to assist as large a numbe1· of stu- Star (Fifty Years Ago Today): \A AAA, J:l\ERA CCC, and TVA, proph\ voices; their bassos profundo drop l 'bl chapter of Phi Delta Theta has ested an extension of \alphabettcal below the ·range of a bass viol While t ents as pOSSl: e. been established at Union.\ This is government\ irr symbol:> lil~e AWOL, the falsettos in the tenor exceed the · rz pitch of the normal soprano, a ca- one jubilee that had to be dug up; BVD, G~P, GIN, IWW, NER' , \t h\ h · b Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delive1·ed anywhere in the United States. The Faculty Woman's Club bears no direct for reasons unknown it wasn't . WCTu; IOU, and finally sos. Allil- paCJ Y w lc acqmres potency Y 11 • d t h t fi fi the fullness of tone they retain. connection with the students of Union Col- bawled at us from a compass sion was ma e 0 \t a ne ower Yet we were not as inspired by points. of Southern culture-the Hon. Huey the Don Cossacks as we have been leg-e .vet it has shown a manifest interest in * * * P. Long of Louisiana.\ And to Wil- Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. . We offer you a reflection of the liam C. Bi.Jllitt as \the shot heard' ·by lesser organizations. They seem- the welfare of the unden!raduates by }Jl'O- d. · · h round the world.\ H. L. Menoken ed inhumane, an instrument, actu- ~ late Frederic Paulhan, 1stmgms - d b . . ally played by their dynamic little motim: the boolumle for the past two years, ed French author, that we spied in rew from a lottery a su scnptwn d1rector, Serge Jaroff. The great Address all business communications to Arthur J. Katzberg, Kappa Nu House, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. All other communications to George R. Cory, Jr., Psi Upsilon House, ~ th N b '31 Livm' g Age· \Re to the Southern Methodist Ad.vo-· l · 1 1 1. • • th f' b · e ovem er, · · · .- t Th . 1 t b t. l\f · glory of vocal music seems to us to am previOUS Y JY ul'lllgtng · e · aiUOUS ·an- main outside. Outside groups, even ca e. ere s 0 s more, u 1 e Is be the intimate ·association between those that You Pl ·efer 1\f there are short and if we copy· we'H be up for tone, Friedrich Schorr, to Schenectad.v for a ' · indolence. artist and instrument: their actual any. Outside centuries, inciuding unity in one person, the singer. As recital in the .l\Iemol'ial Chapel. Neither of your own century. Outside coun- * * * the Russian military unit stood, ex- 1 • t . l ff . l . h tries, including your own. Outside Dr. Coffin scores a hit when he p~essionless as so many Ol'gan Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD George R. Cory, Jr .............. Editor-in-Chief t lese pl'O.J ec S were Slmp e a an·s W llC yourself, your ideas, and your de- compa1·e\ the cost of one single pipes, we were not so inspired as we caused little concet·u or work; 011 the con- sires. Not alway~. for that is im- battleship with what it would take 'were dumbfounded by their bril- possible, but sometimes. Then you to endow a first-class university. Hance. trary the committees in charge spent months will understand life and how little The battleship laps up a cool 30 or The only exception to this effect · you amount to, you and the rest.\ 40 m1\ll1·on a t1\dy sum 1·n any scho f th · · th · of preparation in makin.r>.· success of thei1· · ' · - 0 elr music was e openmg . . May we suggest from personal ex- Jae.tic stocking. Compare the above group of liturgic numbers, glorious, Arthur J. Katzberg ... , , ..... Business Manager C. William Huntley ........... Managing Editor Robert H. Smith .................. News Editor Arnold J. Friedman .............. Sports Editor Prince E. Oleson ........•....... Feature Editor , wol'l~. perience that the compensations of drop in the naval bucket w1th majestic works with all the dignity outside-ness far outweigh the pain what. Union's gargantuan endow- and strength of the Ru::>sian ~e!'Vic~. We feel that the students owe the Faculty it involves. There is a calm that ment. But education is too horribly .The marvellous opening attack in can come only from living apart, .bulky anyway; if we must econ- Kastalsky's \Credo its tervent con- Morton C. Stewart. ....... Circulation Manager JUNIOR BOARD \\\ oman's Club a debt which will never be re- from dwelling with a body of omize, let's knock off a few surplus viction will long remain with us, .as greater men than any single envi- college~ w·n th · \fi t b t\f ll d paicl. The least that can be done is to ex- ronment can begin to offer. With \· * * di~inu~~~~n~~~ncres~~~dou 1ir ~~~ C. Hathaway D. Moulton J. Woolman M. Berger R. Diamond Issue Editor • • . . . • Donald B. Moulton P ress our g.-ratification for their results. a-nd such a reverse of vicarious experi- Good Friday music, \Have Mercy ~ ence drawn from many men and And then there's the Plan for the On Us.\ Possibly no other work cooperate with them in all future endeavors. many ages, adventures in society Intellectual Advancement of Youth. was as eloquent as the quiet but assume less of urgency and so less Bring your tennis raquet and din- ·supernal Russian arrangement of of heartburning and inquietude: we ner clothes and take our B. S. in the Lord's Prayer. ADVERTISING The last hundred years have seen tre- mendous changes in the business world. The business unit has changed f1·om very local- ized companies to nationally known corpom- tions, and during· this period the American college has likewise changed significantly. The college is no longer a secluded institu- tion surrounded by a certain amount of mystery. Almost eve1·yone to a certain ex- tent knows something about college and is to some degree interested in undergraduate life. This change is due, in part at least, to the use of advertising, a device apparently bor- t'O\ved from the business world. The aver- age college seems to find that it has to mak€ a constant effort to maintain the sort of a student body that it desires. A college has three pl'incipal ways in which it may adv.ertise. The first and most conspicuous is some sort of a news-bureau which cares for national publicity through the large newspaper units and the small local papers. Union is fortunate in this re- spect, having a news-bureau which is well managed and which has received much fa- vorable criticism throughout the country. The activities have, unfortunately, been de- creased this year thl'ough an enforced re- trenchment. The second source of advertising is that carried on by the individual student, work- ing often through his fraternity. It is in- teresting to note how often a man goes to a college principally because of some friend who goes there, and in this respect the un- dergraduate can perhaps do more than any- one else in bringing men to his college. This is well worth the student consideration dur- ing the next few months, and especially dur- ing the Christmas recess. The last kind of publicity is that carried on by the alumni and is of much the same nature as that done by the undergraduates. The alumni have one advantage, however, in that they tend to be more widely dis- tributed and can often meet men with whom the undergraduates would in all probability never come in contact. The use of advertising by colleges is prob- ably regarded with disapproval by the aver- age academic group, but nevertheless, if a college is to continue to be successful, a definite plan of advertising must be a part of the college program. THE FRUITS OF ENDEAVOR Close to two hundred dollars profit was realized by the efforts of the Faculty Wom- an's Club during the past three months to make the recent bookf:alc for thr benefit of the Student Loan Fund a success. It is a START OFF RIGHT draw nearer to the \invulnerability\ bee-keeping. And if you love life, Serge Jaroff's arrangement of the of which Charles Morgan speaks so just forget that you ever saw such \Volga Boat Song\ surpri::>ed us. If reverently. We cannot be crushed a thing as a brief case. WE DON'T Jess real than customary, it was a in mind or body if we view desires WANT 'EM,--- SAVVY? far more artistic and ideal concep- tion. The Cossacks did especially Tonight a new team under a new coach ~- \Vill be playing the first home game of the I N o t e s 0 n 0 u r basketball season. Already they have over- Now Will You Drink lovely work in the \Bells at Even- If a student is caught drinking at tide,\ which possessed more of the the University of CoJor.ado, he is melancholy character we .anticipate in Russian music. forced to attend Sunday School for Their rendition of the \Cossack come a big obstacle, winning their first game C 0 n t e m P O r a r i e S We J'ie~c With Alrtrm ... The Umni-zwesellf Rul> .•• Time Sm•eJ' ... Seriou.• J>oUtks •.. Dale,• l'mki/Jiir'd . .. ,'Jounds Srotcl! a period of three years. Song,\ while excellent, was hardly * * * as exciting as we had been led to A Good Tim~ Was Had expect, certainly not sufficient to on a foreign court against a strong opponent. They are using a new style of play, a much !'aster and more modern game all around. Sp01·ts ~Titers have called it a \new deal\ in l'nion's basketball. Several of those who followed closely our football team's season this ~'ear have made the entirely con·ect statement thnt if the student support shown at the last two games had been present earlier in the season, re- sults would doubtless have b(len much better. Tonight is the time for a new kind of stu- dent support, a type of support that starts off the season with an enthusiastic bang, that doesn't lag at any time but is always at its highest pitch, a sort that makes the fel- lows on the flo.ot· forg·et how to lose, that makes them play like demons. Tonight is the time to display so much pep that the cheerleaders will always be busy leading yells. With student support like that, you can be sure games will be exciting and that the sea- son will be successful. EXPRESSION OF STUDENT OPINION The Concordiensis is designed to express student opinion in matters regarding the in- terests of the undergraduate body as a whole. Ve1·y often the editorial board is unable to reach an exact consensus of the feelings of the students regarding their affairs and to offset this shortcoming we have ofi'ered the use of a column known as \I<n the Mail\. The powers of such a column are obvious; should anything go by unnoticed by the Student Council or The Concordiensis, there is a means -of reaching every student by merely writing a letter and depositing it in the mail box of this newspaper in Silliman Hall, thereby g-iving due recognition to student opinion. In the past this privilege has been sadly neglected to the extent that the column has become at times practically ob&olete. Cer- tainly there are matters of vital concern to a number of stud~nts which are passed by unnoticed. Naturally discrimination has to be used in the publication of such letters, but anything which seems to affect the best interests of some function of the student body or some group of undergraduates will receive first co.nsideration for publication. Ps£> this privilPg£' 'vhich has heert granted to you. A professor of German a:t the \bring down the house\ as reported University of Colorado has been in Bo::ton and elsewhere. Since it taken ill with diphtheria and fifty- clo;;es every Don Cossack program five students in her classes have possibly they do not wish to g1ve it been given a three-day quarantine.· with the same intensity each even- * * * ing. Shades of a Puritan But, notwithstanding· our certain ---------------~ Women at Park College are al- adverse comments, we did not fail Nothing LiltP Education lowed to go out two nights a week, to respect or enjoy the g1·eatness of Mondays and Saturdays until 10 the Russian chorus, the superb You spealt only Engli::>h: In o'clock. quality of their singmg. * * Switzerland two languages are a necessity and most people ,;peak three or four. The universities are on a bilingual basis. Sometimes reading assignments may be in English, French, and G~rman. A Man May Be Down ll ·1 A professor at Syracuse Univer- W k' B f Ed•t • 1 I sity, while recovering from an ap- ee S es I OrJa pendicitis operation, gave lectmes •'-=============~ in bed to his chemistry class with - * * Viewing With Alarm the aid of a michrophone, telephone exchange, and loud speaker. Inflation Merely Increase of Currency Put Into Circulation KEEP OFF THE FOLIAGE Remember way back when you used to read editorials about \Keep Off the Grass',' in your high school n<!wspaper. Well, it seems that even Co-education in Japan received another set-back when one of the girl students took first honors in scholarship at Maiji Univer~ity. This was disconcerting to Nippon- ese ideas of male superiority. They became more firmly convinced that a university was no place for co-eds. (Continued from Page 1l our circulation still further $5,000,000,000. college papers have to resort to that famous warning as a subject for an editorial. It's not because we're by short on editorial ideas because * * America, God's Own Country China is unsafe for students who adhere to the philosophy of Marx. The usual procedure is a brief trial and execution. Chinese students say that it isn't safe even to mention the word Communism. * • There's The Rub Policy of Administration What is the policy of our pres~nt administration? It has not been def- initely stated; but if we read be- tween the lines. we may conclude that our administraticn does not wish to increase the currency up to the limit prescribed by law, but ex• pects by increasing L1e price of gold, to depreciate our money in The University of Rangoon crew lerms of foreign currency, thereby in Burma has a shell shipped f1 om enabling foreign countries to buy England. Although they average from us, and in order to handle this only 140 pound1; per man, the Bur- increased amount of trade, to issue mese \varsity\ speeds it through money against our gold backing in the water with expert precision. sufficient amounts to take care of Their only difficulty is in finding our trading purposes and at the another crew to race. same time be dealing with a money * • • that is within the law and is an No Passive Resistance economically sound and honest dol- \There is nothing like a strike to lar. dodge examinations,\ say Chinese This whole business today has students. They have used it so often turned o~t. to b~ a batt!e between that administrations now take spe- the :3:dm1mstrabon; wh1ch I~ at- cia! care to see that there are no temptmg to take care of the mter- grounds for friction between f'lc-~ ests of the masses, versus the chos- ulty and students immediately pre- en few in whose hands ~he largest ceding the examinations. percentage of wealth ts ·roncen- • • • They Also View At a school for higher education in Burma the women's athletic in- structors had to make the already inconvenient girl's sport attire longer and fuller because of criti- cism of the men. * * * Saving Time Education is well-planned under Mussolini. You are told not only how to think, but also what to think. * • * Politically Serious At the University of California at Los Angeles candidates for stu- dent offices have to be heavily guarded by police to protect them from being kidnapped by opposing forces. \ * * No Calendars Allowed Denver University freshmen· are forcibly ejected from all footbali and basketball games if they are discovered bringing dates with them. trated. It is to the advantage of the moneyed people to have a high val- ued dollar because this same dollar in times. like the present will pur- chase more goods than it would at normal. Payments on debts incurred by the small wage earner and home owner in the period 1925-1929 when the dollar and its purchasing power were more or less normal, can no longer be met. The working man has to toil two or three times the amount of time today as he did in 1929 for the same number of dol- Jars. The debt remains the same the interest rate remains the same: but the d9llar with which he is pay- ing the debt is unfair becsuse its valuation is not the same. There- fore the important thing is not the debt in terms of number of dollars but the debt in terms of value of dollars received. Save Worker's Property · It is the object of the present ad- ministratic;m to save th~o~ worker's property from confiscation and the worlt~r~ himself, from bankruptcy * * * by ra1smg the purchasing value of Sounds ~co'tch the dollar to a 1925-1926 level con- The students of Glasgow Univer- sidered by statisticians to be a nor- sity Scotland upset the whole of mal.le~el and by making the dollar Great Britain by pubilshing a ficti- app!OX!mately the same dollar with tious yarn concerning the crash of which the worker incurred the debt. a trans-Atlantic aviatrix and then This will free the masses from the t.ook up .a collection for their chnr-~opp.ression of t.·he strong money ity fund when a crowd appeared at lending class. In fact· it will also the scene of the supposed crash. aid tlle latter class, which in its there are always plenty of those floating ·around but it happens that even these college kids have to be reminded. Of course, it's much easier on the feet to walk on Old Mother Earth and it's often the shortest way home to focus your eye on Bill World's hangout when you're at the armory and then make a bee line for that point, but the \campus just can't take it.\ It has been pointed out by some that the sidewalk wears soclts out faster than the earth, but the de- pression has been wiih us long enough so that a set of feet on the average college student should have callouses as thick as the soles on high grade shoes, so we say \Objec- tion overruled.\ State college students take pride in the fine coat of green on the cam- pus every spring and they have every right to be proud. However if the campus is going to have that \sc~ool-girl\ complextion next sprmg, students are going to have to keep their number twelves off the grass this fall. It is commonly known that injury to the grass will result if students stomp around on it this time of the year. Your less liable to get wet feet or to run into a tree if you walk on the sidewalk, f;O try the concrete once again before the management is forced to build a fence around the grassy areas. An(i another thing-those un- sightly Collegians, candy wrappers and notebook papers lying around the campus don't exactly beautify the surroundings any. Charley Puo-s- ley doesn't have too much money 0 to spand on beautifying the campus this year so try to reform-before New Years, too, because then the snow will make a sermon such as this unnecessary. Try and remem- ber not to forget! -The Industrial Collegian, South Dakota. blindness would be crushed by its own power and weight. Therefore I believe that the Pres- ic;Ient is on the. correct path to a normal prospenty and is acting C!Jl!ra~eou~ljT, safely and wisely. The OI:>Jecbve 1s so beneficient and the old ordet• has proven so cruel in its operation, that we as a nation should back up our administration m its u:r:dertaking, rather than cloud the xssue by misleading state- ments and propaganda like that to be found in many of our news- papers and magazipe articles of today. ' l N ( t

Cos- b.ave •re- ap- ale the lS drop the ca- by by been eem- little p·eat to As ex- we bril- in con- .as done the but of the If a f the ardly to to orted it gram tve it even- t fail of ij you 'Keep even that an we're those that to be the way Bill the line just some out de- long the have on pride cam- have e that next have es off monly will nd on or on ncrete un- ney to pus before the as South by its Pres- to a acting The the in its nation than state- to news- of THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1933 Three Clarkson Tech Engages Dutchman Five Here Tonight <i> Visitors Are Regarded as Strong Outfit; Union Defeats Middlebury Five, 35-31.· Saturday's Win Over Panthers. Sport Slides Nitchman May Start Jackson And McDowell Tonight for A Better Off,ensive Drive Comes With Inspired Rally . In Last Minutes of Play With a revamped lineup for the Instituting an inspired rally in by Arnold J. Friedman R P. I. has listed five swimming ·meets for the coming season. The team will be comprised of prac- tically the same men who were on the squ·~d last year. contest with Clarkson Tech tonight the final four minutes of play a.ft- Coach Nelson Nitchman is sending er having been on the short end of hzs varsity basltetball team against the score during the greater par- one of the strongest squads to play tion of the game, the Union varsity on the local court in the past few .·basketball team tallied a 35 to 31 years. Backed by an impressive victory Saturday night in its first record last year and the beginnings contest of the season against Mid- of one thiS fall, the Engineers are dlebury on the Vermont court. gunnmg confidently foL' an easy 'Throughout the first half the Gar- vzctoiy over the Garnet. The game net and the Panthers played on will start at 8 o'clock in the Alumni even terms and the score stood 11 gymnasium. all when the players walked off the The 1932 Tech scoring machine floor at the end of the period. In averaged 40 points a game against the first ten minutes of play the 1irst class competition. 'With some- thing of a veteran team, the Engi- Garnet held a six point lead which nee1·s emerged from their iirst. was soon cut down by the Panther game of thzs season on the long <lhotmakers. The rest of the game end of a 40 to 17 score against ::it. was a see-saw affair with the lead Michael's. Union's main strength changing several times. With four lies in the detense. Should Pu1ce minutes to play the Dutchmen tied Dow and Jack Moffett ·continue the home team at 27 all and started their fine play in this department a scoring deluge featuz ing the of the game, victory will be within shooting of Milano and McDowell grasp. '!'he Tech outfit is somewhat and the feeding by Jackson. weaker on the defense. G uards Are s~d~dy Flowers Is Star \\\\' The Clarkson attack has been' Tbe guard combination of Dow built around Flowers, the center.' and Moffett played the entire game He is high scorer, securing most. and presented a formidable de- of his points on turning shots while fense. Captain Puree Dow. who in off the ground. Realizing this fact, the past two years on the varsity Coach :Nitchman has been drilling figuNd only moderately in the his centers, Joe Milano, Van Wal- scoring, found his shootmg eye and dron, and Clem Smith, against this dropped in five field goats through type of shot. Gaffney, a forward the nets. The starting torward patr, and a football player, as is Flowers, Rotunda and Semerad, although is another scormg threat, and along playing an excellent defensive game with Captam Ryan, guard, is a presented no offensive threat to the · · 1 middlebury backcourtmen and the cons1stentscorer on pivoting Pays, point garnering was left to Cap- a style 0f game which has been made extremely difficult in the past . tain Dow and Joe Milano, the big two years, beca.use of the three sec-· rangy sophomore center, who ful- ond rule, which allows a player only filled expectations and was the high three seconds to get rid or the ball ;:;corer ot the evening with 15 points, seven from the free shot line. while within the toul circle. Leete, the star of the Middlebury Flowers, Gaffney, and Ryan will forward line,rolled up twelve points, be the men to watch tonight. All and was followed by Captain Dick figured prominently in the scoring Sweet with eight. As in professional spree against St. Michael's. The en- games, foul shooting proved the counter may well resolve itself into winning margin for the Garnet battle of centers, between Milano teanJ. Out of sixteen tries the visi- and Flowers, both dangerous shots t.ors made eleven good, while the and both rugged gridders. Since best the Panthers could make was Saturday's contest was away from three out of ten. home, no definite estimate could be The summary follows: UNION (35J Rotunda, rf .......... . Semerad, lf ........... . .Milano, c ............. . Dow, rg .............. . Moffett, lg ........... . Jackson, rf ........... . Smith, rf ............. . McDowell, rf ......... . FG FP Pts 0 0 0 1 0 2 4 7 15 5 0 10 1 0 2 1 2 4 0 0 0 0 2 2 \The Lion Has Joined the Circus.\ The above statement comes from the last line of the editorial in the December 5th issue of \The Colum.bia Spectator,\ concerning the ac- ceptance of the Columbia eleven of .the invitation to meet Stanford in the Rose Bowl game New Year's day. And in my opinion the Lion has joined more than the circu.s, it has definitely entered the show business and from now on can be expected to .put on its act whenever it appem~ on the gridiron. Columbia University has always s:tood out as one large college football team that does not conduct contestts as public spectacle• for profit. Last February an athletic investigating Clommittee from Co· lumbia made a report emphasizing the fact that Columbia·s athletic~ should be reorganized so that attendance would be confined to member.3 of the universities and their alumni. In accepting the Rose Bowl in- vitation Columbia is sending a team 3,000 miles across the country tc chase a pigskin football around for an afternoon, and collect something like $70,000 for doing so. The only significance that the game hoo fo1 Columbia Unlvezsity is to show that they have a football team. The 90,000 individuals that will gather in Pasedena January 1 will not can what kind of a school the team represents. They will pay their admis- sion to see a show, one that will be played up in all newspapers in order to make the show a success·. Someone may call this game a mythical national championship contest, but that is absurd. Foctball teams can not be compared in such a light. A national rating is given college teams by various experts of the game, but this year none of tlliern place eithe-r Stan\ ford or Columbia near the top. N othlng will be gained by Columbia in this oontest. Their reputation as an intellectual center will suf- fer from this profiteering on the gridiron. Football in Columbia has been conside1·ed as a campus sport and not a money making business. In accepting the invitation they completely forgot their ideals, which they have never failed to be proud of in the past. Columbia has been loolted up to as the one large school that had not joined the circus, but now with one stroke they ha.ve completely wiped out all their ideals. Football at Colwnbia has been conducted in the same man- ner as football at smaller colleges. Professionalizing the team is very small, probably not existing at all. Of com'Se one is g1•ateful to lmow that a non-p1·ofessional team should get the call to a. \so- called classic.\' It is also gratifying to know that Princeton still maintains those ideals of intercollegiate football that bas been con- nected with this fine New Jersey uui.versity for so many years. Besides lowering opinion of Colltmbia Unive1·sity's athletic policy, the Columbia administration also dealt a death blow to their varsity basketbai~ team. Coaches Dan Meena.n and Paul Mooney had depended <Jn ten football men to fo;rm th•e nuclleus for the qui·ntet. TheEe mEn will be in California while the five is preparing for the IDastern Inter- collegiate Basketball League. Even Captain Owen McDowell, the team's offensive threa.t will be lost at the beginning of the seas·on. Tommy Tomb is another star forward that 'viii ·be in the west. The only man of any value left for the Lion five is Bill Meisel. Another blow to the quintet was the quiting of Red A.sselin because of pressure of his studies. All in all, ·the Columbia quintet took a beating when the ad- ministration decided to a.band:on its policy in favor of money. The fo<.t· ball team deserves a z·eward for their fill'e work on the gridiron, but whether Columbia should forget all its former preachings is another tJhing. The fact remains now that the Lions have joined tlle shov.- business. FACULTY AT G~ The Faculty Men's Club, through Vermont's basketeers are set for a big seas0n with seven varsity men retutning to the team. * * C0lgate has its toughest schedule in the history of swimming at the University. Besides Union, the Red Raiders will encounter thirteen oth- er opponents. * Seventy candidates, ten of whom are veterans, answered the first practice call for swimming at Trin- ItY College. * * Swarthmore's basketball coach, \Pard\ Larkin, with two positions remaining to be filled, i!; still pes- simistic about the prospects of his quintet. * The University of Rochester will not open its swimming season until January 20th when they will meet Union's tankmen. * * Wesleyan needs swimmers in the distance and dives. The Cardinal basketball squad, however, will open its season Friday with a strong aggregation. * * Hamilton's hockey team has a tentative game with the U. of Minnesota. * Swarthmore will not meet Union on the gridiron in 1934, according to the Swarthmore Echedule re- leased recently. Amherst and Hamp- ton Sidney are new teams to their :schedule. Besides Union, the Quak- ers also dropped Gettysburg and Ursinus from the 1934 list. Official U. C. Photographers Portrait and Commercial Photographing THE WHITE STUDIO 215 State Street U. C. Representative T. WHIPPLE, Chi Psi I CHARLES' FoJ~~Iy The Official Union College Barber for the past 24 years. Ask any upper classmen. they know. 11 operators. Schenectady's great- est barber. COR. STATE AND BROADWAY made of Union's scoring power against collegiate opposition. To- mght's game on the home court should give some idea of what the Garnet quintet can do under favor- able conditions. Playing on the court on which they are accustomed to practice, Coach l'[itchman's men will attempt to put in effect the type of fast breaking, safe-shooting game upon which they have been drilling, but were hampered: from using at Middlebury because of the size of the court. Totals ............... 12 11 35 the cooperation of Professor J. Hal- old Wittner, is sponsoring the bas- ketball game with C!arltson for all members of the faculty this eve- ning. No admission will be charged for the faculty. After the game a social evening will be spent in the trophy room. MIDDLEBURY (31l FG FP Pts 3 1 7 THE CAZETTE PRESS Baungarten ,rf ....... . Leete, rf .............. . Clonan, c ............. . Sweet, lg, c ......... . Davis, rg ............. . Hoehn, rf ............. . Barker, rg ........... . Martin, rg ............ . 5 0 10 1 0 2 4 0 8 1 1 3 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 ,._,.,._,.,, BUY Jackson and McDowell to Start Anticipating the need for an ex- perienced duo of forwards, the Gar- net coach is planning to install Ray McDowell and Sam Jackson in the starting forward berths. These men, in the short time they played, were largely instrumental in winning the Middlebury tilt. Both played as reg- ulars during the latter part of last season. Because of a cold sustained after the Middclebury game Jackson may not be able to play, in which event Jiggs Rotunda will fill his position. Joe Milano at center, and Captain Puree Dow and Jack Mof- fett at guards will complete the Totals ............... 14 3 31 CHRlSTMAS SEALS Union five. The probable lineup for tonight: Fos. UNION CLARI\:.SON RF Jackson Collins LF McDowell Gaffney c Milano Flowers RG Dow Ryan LG Moffett Hutteman Score at half time-Union 11, Middlebury 11. Fouls committed- Union 7, Middlebury 12. Referee- Olney. NOTICE Daniel F. Flinn, president of the Student Council, announced yester- day that a special meeting gf the Student Council will be held Friday evening in North College. The next meeting of the student body was also announced for Mon- day, January 8th. mm:mm;:mmm:::::m:::m:mmm:::::m:m:m::mm ! ta Nu Epsilon vs. Phi Delta Theta. i!i il! 3:30, Phi Gamma Delta vs. Alpha m Intramural Basketball m Delta Phi. 4:30, Delta Chi vs. Kap- m m paNu. i!! Leagues !!! How They Stand ~ m ·u::m::m:::mmm:m:mm::::m:::m:::m::::m::m:::m Results DeLta Upsllorr 42, Theta Delta Chi 17. Neutrals 36, Delta Chi 15. Kappa Nu 20, Phi Sigma Kap- pa 12. Beta Theta Pi 21, Delta Pi Nu 10. Neutrals 28, Psi Upsilon 10. NAl'IONAL LEAG'CE w .Neutrals ........................ 2 Delta Upsilon .................. 1 Delta. Chi .. . . .. .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . 2 La,mbda Chi Alpha . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Kappa Nu ..................... 1 Ph1 Sigma Kappa . . . . . . . . . . .. . 1 Theta b~lt.a Chi . .. • .. . • . • .. • .. 1 Sigma ·Chi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Psi Upsilon . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . 0 AMERICAN I.EAGUE L 0 0 2 Christmas Next Week ls alt your s/zopping doneP For All PRINTERS Cream Butter Eggs ONLY THE BEST IS GOODENOUGH BRANDHORST PHARMACY 11 0n the Corner\ Union Street and Gillespie Edward H. Brandhorst, Leland E. Brandhorst. Reg. Phar. Reg. Phar. HOCREY AT R. P. L Hockey, a sport which was aban- doned at R; P. I. two years ago, may be revtved at the Troy inoti- tution, if the movement started by several members of the varsity foot- ball team gains more followers. R. P. I. usually had fairly good sex- tets, but two years ago the college dropped the sport, in the same man- ner that it was abandoned by Union last year. Student agitation brought hockey back to Union, spuring on R. P. I. students to do the same thing. This year probably will be a good season for ice, and R. P. I. students are anticipating a reviva'i of the hockey squad. R P. I.'s football team will be captained by Anthony Fiori, guard during 1934. ' .COLLEGE G'RILL Sandwiches and Beverages A TRIAL MAKES A CUSTOMER Cor. Eastern Ave.-Jackson Pl. We Have the Finest DE LUXE MOTOR COACHES To be had in the Capitol District BE CONVINCED-CALL G. A WELCOME & SON Phone 4-8444 1171 Union St. The HAWTHORNE CLUB SANDWICHES and COLD DRINKS 226 Lafayette Street ·!~ih;'\A;;;\B;;b~;m Service With A Smile PHONE 4-4525 ill ill :::m::m:mmm:m:::::::::m::::::::::m::::m::::m:::mEr UNiON'S OLD STANDBY Our Work and Prices Are Competitive GARNET TAILOR 305 Liberty St. Tel. 4-0122 .Ifill'\ J!Jf' .#\ ...,.pr ..,- .JJ? BUY CHRISTMAS SEALS Phi Gamma Delta 26, Phi Sigma Delta 6. Phi Gamma Delta . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Delta Chi 19, Sigma Chi 14. Kappa Alp1la . · ............... . Delta Chi 16, LaJIITbda Chi AI- Beta Theta Pi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 pha 9. 1 Alpha Delta Plll . . . . .. .. . . .. . . 1 0 0 Occasions @I£~EY~ )Jj ICE CREI\M 'i._:l.=.'l .. ::mm:mm::mmm:m:mmm::mmm::::m:~::~::::~m:m::mmm:m::mmm::m::mm::m::m:\\l 1::.:.::: FRIENDLY FIVE Ill Beta Theta Pi 33, Alpha Delta Theta Nu Epsilon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . o Phi 17. Phi Delta Theta ............... 0 Ph! Sig.ma D(;lta .. . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Schedule Tomorrow-7:30, Del-ta Pi Nu vs. Kappa Al·pha. 8:30, Theta Delta Chi vs. Phi Sigma Kappa. Fridiay-7:30, Kappa Nu vs. Psi Upsiion. s.:SO, Sigma Chi vs. Neu- trals. Delta Pi Nu . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . 0 ST. REGIS PHARMACY Charles R. Carey, Prop. 600 Union Street PHONE 4-1m 2 Saturday-7:30, Lamb-da Chi Al- pha vs·. Theta Delta Chi. 2:30, The- :....------.....------.......: and m Schenectady's Premier ill FORTUNE SHOES l!i m m ;g LINDSAY BOOT SHOP m m m m · · m !!! GAZETTE BUILDING-STATE STREET m l~;;;;;;;;;=;---=~===!.lllmmmmm::m:::m::mm:mm:mm:mmm:mmmmmmm:m::mmm::m:m:m::m::m::mm::mmm::m::1ii Phone 4-9106 More Weeks 2 to Christmas SHOP RART.V-MAn. P..uuv 'i fi i . , I ;.j( ' i

·i I, ', .: . ' ~ Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1933 Dr.KrumbineTalks 1 ,__-------.--~ CALENDAR Union Represents Mexico, China at Model Council On Mediocre Leader Tells of Tendency to Allow · , I Passion::; of Lower ( lassPs! To Dictate Public Affairs I (Centinued f.rom Page 1) BrtdH rball--Unian vs. Cla·rk- : : Chaco and aroused so much inter- ~,.n. est as to merit. for the two debaters 'l'onight having their ;pictures taken by the Cl!l>,·iol Club 7:3( p.m. photographer of the 'Syracuse Daily .Ph)sic> Club · S:CC p. m. Orange. They were the only ones Cl:<>>·~ Olub -8:CC p. m. to receive such an honor. Chfn:btry Club-8:CC p. m. The Union delegation also played \We seem to have swung into an a big part in the discussion on the era that stand:; for the tnumph or Tomonow report of the rapporteur on inter- mediocrity\ deC'laic'd Dr. Mile~ n''i:y A,·,embly Speakn -MI. national law regarding the meaning Henry Krumbine, pa,;tui· uf tht I David Fin:ey, '13, \The Call of of the clause requiring ·inembers to. Plymouth Churcll of ~hakel tl:e Trarl:f!.\ fulfill all thei·r obligations to the Heights, Cleveland, Ohio, in hb ad- Puh:iraHcn Bca·J d Met>ting-- League before withdrawal. Donald· dress at the ::;unlluy se1 vice~ .tl 11 \ 4 :2l p nL MacKenzie, '31, chaivman of •both Memori.~l ChapP! yestenlay. Union delegations and representa- · \Not since the ~eho.at<\ I!,•d f..,u. Thun.({a~· tive of China, objected to the 1eport. Constantino.ple in 14c53 at the cuJH· D:1ily Aenmb1y SpEakn-Mr. He took exception to the statement ing of the Turk,; h.tve W<' witm•soe<.. '_'. N Waldren. that the Covenant of the League of such an exit of the competent anc. Nations did' not provide for the en- the elite as has happ~necl in on~ 0 ' Schubelt Club Ccnco't-S: 3 C forcement of its acti0n. Pointing to the foremost nation,; uf Eut••(\' ;> Ill ,;eve1al articles of the Covenant, Germany ., he ~aid. I Friday MacKenzie pointed out that it pro- \We w~uld be lacking in intelli· d h ·-r'des for 1'nstJ'tut1'.·n.a sanct1'ons d 1 Dai·:y A::::embly-Dr. T·i ·mars· . • , gence if WP blinde oure~tves to 1 tl against the violators of the Cove- fact tha,t in om· ·own natwn we ha' c nant. The insistent objection of. been WJtne.s~ing a ~rowmg tend•·nc~ .!tt·oebcl and Coh' en Stai' China sut>ported by several of the to let our affairs be dictated by .:o > '- •lther Governments. was responsible ercion fr·om below. Cumpetent lt'atl· ,n 1\'lountebanl{S Plays ;or the rejection of the report. Mac- !:rship, capable of shapmg life, . 1 ' Kenzie's suggestion that the ques- constantly threatened and often tll.s- --- tion b.e referred to the committee plaved by that que.stionub!P mE'dit>- (Continued fiom Page 1) for further investigation was not crity at the top which geb to the ;tinfd his 1 ole admirably. De·a·n accepted because the rapporteur re- top and stays there because It artie- 'toylance as Death and John Dow!- fused to undertake the investiga- ulates. guiltily, the lees WOI thy p:ts- n•~ ~·s Good Dt>Prls did fine· work in tion. The council decided to refer sion,;;· ot the crowd. 1t Yt~ltb to ' 0 wo of the major supporting pat ts. the matter to another committee ercion from below. But. surely, Wt' 1 G b k b J' 1· htl appointed by the president. are giving way to tl:!rl< superstition :, r·. roe:;. ec ' we e Jeve. s Ig y when we eye with set enity llle com- •vet did his interpretation of Goods Discuss l'al!'-stine Riot~> mon impulse to truo.;t to blind crowd clming the fit::;t performance, but At the Fl\iday session the Council in~tinct for guidance into the fu- ,·.a;;·~ Pxcel.Jent the second night. No acted upon three questions in the ture. Let leader~hip th<'tef.ot e d.•ni thet roJp,; ;;tand out a:; worthy of ag~nda.. Tbe report of rapporteur onstrate ito; competence by at'Ct'pt· pecial comment. Minor parts were on the Leticia dispute which recom- ing its pz·efened privih»~('. not a.~ an one adequ· te:y by Reynold Crane, mended postponing any action by endowment but us a 1 \\pon~tbtltty. -('I dinand Helm, and Paul Wass- the Council until the conclusion ·O' and yield to it~ inform• d in,ig!:t. it• nan>'dorf. the con:erence being held at Rio de instructed ::;ense of what b Itght C\lr. :l>!a1 kma:n's work on the stage Janeiro was accepted by the Coun- and sen::;ible and acl'cpt tlw pains, irsign was good. He is to be laud- cil. A suggestion oy Argentina in- agonies and distresses that that en- d for thf'· extreme ::;implidty of hi~ viting Ecuador to the Rio confer- tails. ffect,;. C\1r. Carroll i.s to be c·on- ence was also accepted. PI oceeding meam of decreasing the jealousy morning, the Council proceeded to ·tine was scheduled. for reconsidera- aroused among Arabs by the pur- conclude its. di.scuss1on on the Dis- tion burt on the /3Ugges!Uon of chase of •land by the Jews. Becaouse · armamerut Conference. · France \he C<mn.cil decided te p\ist- of the objection of several countries Discussion Become$ Lively . pone action unt:il Us neXJt meeting. the clause advocating the division of the country into ·Cantons, was re- Italy, re.presen-ted by Colgate, en- Following the a,djournment of the jectecl by the Council but the re- · gaged France, 1 epresented by a co- meeting the delegates were a,s.J,ted . mainde< of the report was adopted. ed from Syra.cuse in a lively dis·cus- ·to offer .sugges•tions for impi'OYing The thlr·d point on the agenda sion. By this tiine the a:tmos.p'here· . the next meetirug of ·the Council. of the· mee•tt\n\ was truly that of \\he ·Several ·o.f the del'egates including· was the 1 <=port from the Financial · · ·o ' · ·L League in Gen€va. True to the po- Donald MacKwnzi'e made such sug~ Committee in regard to :teague sution of the count1y which he rep- ges.tions. Dr . .Amy Gil.bevt of El~ Leans. resente·d the delega.te from Colgate mka, speaking for the faculty Bon!' Raises Question advocated equality for Germany pra.ised the delegate·s for the man- An inqui-ry •by Raymond Bonk, both iu discuss.jons and in arma- ner in which they represen•ted the '34, as to whether the responsibility ments. Fra•nce objected but after attitude of the v>arious countries on ,>f the League for the loans was fi-. the dis·cussion was resumed on the topics of the agenda, n9.ncial or moral or both brought, Saturda.y <tfternopn Frapce con- The next meeting Of the Council, the reply that the responsibility was sented to reduce her armaments to ;twas announced will be ·held: some- only moral. With the meanihg ef the level O·f Germany. time in April at the University of this clause cleared up, the ·Ceuncil Taking up t:he seventh question· Hochester. adopted the report. on its agenda the Council favored· ---------------- Upon the request of the French an immediate plebiscite in the' a:nd Czechoslovakian governments Saar. The rep01t o:t; the· rapporteur ·epresented by Syracuse University was adopted with a reservation by the Counci>l a,greed to reopen the France that should rthe plebiscite -\Bu;y Cln~l3tmas ·spals\- ·discussion on the report .on t·he riots favor Germany, the mines ·in the :n Palestine, The discussion on the region be left under French C·ontrol• ,--~~--,~___,~.,._...._..,..-..,..,.._~--~ question was to be resumed after until Jan'U.ary, 1935., whe.n the pleb- the comidcration of the report on is cite provided for· by the Treaty of. thE: Dl!:;armarnent Conference. Ver.sr~illes 'is ~·chE>du!Pcl to take d place. Raymond Benk amd Frank, Attmd Banqut-t an Dance Squires rep1·esented MeX:ico and Friday evening the delegates at- China respectively. tended a banquet. The pt,incipal L 1 ·pea1cer was Dr. Karl C. Leebrick, · ac;: of time pPev£mted any Dean of the College of Li.be:r<a.J Arts iengthy discussion on the· last te>pic at Syracuse. He told the delegates of the agenda, The Council ado]lted th t Pro es .~. mus•t nece~~·aJ•J'ly b the Report of the Commi::;:;ioner on . a . gr = . \~ e M' 'low and that they should not be morities in Conformity with the ;liscourag\ed if the League moves Decision of the last A.!'£embly. A slowly. In .spite o0f the fact that 1 eservation by Spain that JPwish the political situation po1nts to refugees from Gel many be allowed · ·mother war, ·he sai'd, the 1 ,e is hope to go to Argentina wa;; also adopt- 'l.f rttsining peace, if the riwing ed. generation, especially the college The re.port on the riots in Pales-, men and women devote themselves THE ACME HOUSE LINEN SUPPLY CO., Inc. Rents Linen for all Occasions (You pay for Laundry Work only) 1030 BARRET ST. Phone 4-9310 toward achieving this goal. Peace, he concluded, will some day be a reality, but we must do something toward helping achieve it. Follow- ing the banquet the delegates at- tended a dance -at the Kappa Kap- pa Sigma Sorority House. HENRY'S BARBER SHOP BARBERING and MANICURING 4 N. Y. C. Arcade Resuming its meeting Saturday FLOWER S H 0 P ROSENDALE DEWITT'S LUNCH Schenectady's Telegraphic Florist Flowers of Quality \To this end it will need not only ~tatulated for his succe:os in adapt- to the next point on the agenda the wisdom to know what tu do, but the n~ <'Pitam l'ynYbols. to the allegory Council d_iscussed the repo:·t on the power and will to do it. By the ~a me j pi P~ented, a~ well as for the riots in Palestine. The report rec- token effective leadPrship always .moothnC':<s o.f thE' performance. ommended leaving the matte1 meets with a Calvary soon<'r or 1 Without this symbolic back- largPly in the hands of G·eat B~i­ Jater. For the ordt'al of Calvaty I ·.•round, enhanced by John C!ute's tain and the division of Palestine long hours of ,;ilent ht ooding in, ighting effet'l.s, the lines of the ac- into l!antons for the purpose of re- Geth:oemane are ine,·itabl<>. Can I :o:s would have been almost unin-~ stricting the purchase of land by competence, in short. once mml' 'I tellig'i·ble. As it was, we had to Jews in certa.in areas of the coun- gain the ascendancy ovt'l us with-, ~or ce out sE'l\·es to attend to the try. This step, the rapporteur ex- 124 Jay Street Phone 4-0540 Opp. City Hall o~ilie~da~m~reen~nt~ ~~ ~pe~h~Insevei~ ~Qa~e~s~·---~p~l~a~i~n~e~d:,~w~a~s~~~~~~c~o~m~m~e~n~d~e~d~~a~s~~a~~===============~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~§~~~~~~ Opposite New City Hall 118 Jay Street ligion that will nl\t \'t' it for it~ --- - task?\ CLAlSSICAL CI.l'B ~OTICE The Clus~icul Club will meet to· night at the hom<' of l'IofP'H>: George l<ellogg. Ptofes~or 1\:Pllogg will speak on the subjl·C't, \l're~t·nt Day Philosophies.\ All who are in terested are welcome to attend. 0 JOURNA.USM CLASS There will h£> no 111Pl'ttng nf th• journa!i::;m cla\s tonight on ac~ount of the basketball game. SOCH~TY REORG.\XLZI:!'oi<i A r £f''t ganizatir:n nH P.tin~ t-f the Philatrllc Surit ty will b\ held tomm1·ow nigl·t at l'i~·M o\clock at the Gcolcgy labotal< I) over the Old Chapt>L Th£· ptin· dpa'i entertainmmt will b<' an exhibH of Unitul fll'<l:t••s .~tam.pt·d envelnpe·~ fl.om th£ ,., :lrcticn cf Prof. Edwa1d S C SmHh, faP- ulty advisor. Tho:;e who at~' r c•- Oiganizing the club incluC:E. Pmf. Smith, Mr. Jame> Btew- ::ter.librai·ian:and Fte.d A Wy- att '32 All stud£nt·~ .int< rr't\! in philate!y a IE invilt·d ·to all• nd the meeting .tmr.OI•I cw nigl;t. A Symbol THE Yule log-symbol of Christmas through the ages. On the great holiday the lord of the manor threw wide the doors, and misery and squalor were for- gotten in the cheer of the boar's head and wassail. Customs change, but the Christ- mas spirit is ageless. Today mil- lions express it by the purchase of Christmas Seals-the penny stickers that fight tuberculosis- still the greatest public health problem. Your pennies will hdp pay for free clinics, nursing serv- ice, preventoria, tuberculin test- ing, X-rays, rehabilitation and other important work such as medical and social research • The National, State and Local Tuberculosis ASsoci a tiona j of the United States BUY CHRI~'l'MAS SEALS STEPPING . . I'll say they're stepping. Just about the best cigarette you ever smoked. Chesterfields are milder Chesterfields taste better ' I 1 p f f d t d r. a 0 t; r. !: t 1 ); \ I c l 1 (

of post- the sug-' El,. man- the ·on of \ I ! ; ' Dr. Ellery Explains Relationship Of Union Plan To Secondary Schools ' 1 ' ' \ ~ '' Union Chapter Of Pi Delta Epsilon Abolished Tuesday Vol. LVII, No. 24 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, DECE:.\IBER 15, 1933 PRICE FIVE CENTS Warren's Dollar Devaluation Plan Is Complete Failure Student Council to Discuss Future Policies for Taxes At a special meeting of the Stu- dent Council tonight, a committee ---- : investigating the distribution of Manipulation Caused Danger-' student taxes will read a typewrit- ous Feeling of Uncertainty; ten information ::~heet tracing the history of the tax' system and malt- Made Sharp Rise in Prices ing recommendations for future --- policies, Daniel Fl·inn, '34, chairman New Money Cannot Help of the Council a:nnounced yester- day. Trade Has No Need of Ext.t;a Money; Public Won't Spend This committee, composed of Will- iam ·waldron, '35, chairman, Hemy Gulnac, '34, L. Reed Tripp, '34, Aus- tin Fox, '35, and Duncan McNab, '35, has been making a thorough survey of the requirements of each By LESLIE R. LONG organization drawing from the tax The dollar devaluation program· fund, of the weaknesses in the pt·es-- proposed by War.ren of Cornell and ent system, and of possible im- followed by the admin·istration has provements. After the Councilmen failed completely. The rise of the have considered this report, they domestic commodity price level an- will make such recommendations ticipated as a result of monetary and changes as seem desirable. devaluation on the foreign exchange A committee will also be appoint- markets has not materialized. The ed at this time to assist the admin- on•ly tangible result of this policy istration in planning a weelt-end in of currency manipulation has been February or early March, set aside the production \Of a dangerou:; at- for the entertainment of pro::;pec- mosphere of uncertainty in the tive freshmen. The administration, .business world and a sharp rise in with the help of the Student Coun- the prices of all imported goods·. cil fraternities, and clubs, hopes to This result was forecast in this pa- prepare an active program for that per several weeks ago. If the Pre~i- week. dent wa:s serious in his last radio The Council will probably seek speech to the American people, he th t' f th d'ff t t will soon utilize one or all of the e cuopera 10n o e 1 eren s u- dent organizations in a meeting other thre·e provtsions of the with the heads of fraternities and Thomas Amendment passed by clubs early in January. Congress la5t spring. Inflation seems to be inevitable unless Con- ~-- --o--~ -- gress says otherwise. The \infiationists\ have recently advanced a proposal that the Gov- ernment should pay off a substan- tial block of its matul'ing public debt in greenbacks. Fortunately this proposal has so fa,r been con- sistently resisted by the Govern.- ment, but because it has a certain public following it is desirable to subject it to analysis. The argu- ment generally advanced in sup- port of the proposition is that it would have the two-fold advantage of lightening the burden of the debt, and at the same time putting purchasing power into the hands of the people with a resultant stimulus to business. It is said that both currency and bonds a:re Govern- ment obligations, hence there is no reason why the one should not be used to pay off t:1e othE>r. It is claimed that this would be a dis- tinct advantage, for by exchanging currency for bonds the Government would save a great dea:l of interest. Both Government Obligations It is true that currency and bonds are both Government obligations, but it is a mistake to assume that they are interchangeable one for he other. If it is sound moneta:ry policy to pay off outstanding issues of thE' public debt with currency issues, what is the sense in putting out bond Issues in the first place? Why not scrap the whole science of public finance, including the prac- tice of levying and collecting taxes, and simply pay all government eCK- penses with the printing press from the beginning? Surely the answer to this question must be plain to everyone. Not even the government has expected to get something for nothing. It is equally a mistake to assume that the issuance of additional money in times of depre·ssion will st1mulate business. It is true that during a boom, when optimism is rampant, business will absorb all the credit and currency available, and this abso!\Ptioh will be the means of accelerating and prolong- ing the boom, It is quite diffeTent, however, during a depression. At such time trade has no need for additional currency, and the public is in no mood for spending. Unless the Government should put out so much money that people become fearful of its w<Jrth, and seek to get rid of it by exchanging it for goods having tangible value, there is no reason to believe that the issuance nf the additional currency would have any effect upon prices. What would probably happen in case the government should pay off two or three billions of its maturities in this manner would be a reinvest- ment of a large part of this cur- rency in other bonds and securities. Such money as did find its way into general circulation would very lil{e- ly crowd an equivalent amount of other money into retirement. Then banks, finding this money coming back over thelr counters. would pass it on to the Federal Reserve Banks, wher.e it would merely add to the overflowing· total of idle re- serve already accumula-ted there. Soldiers' Bonus Payments ·For those who may be sl{eptical of this line of reasoning it is pes- bible to cite the experience with the soldiers' bonus payments in 1931 and i.he issuan\:e of ,national banlt (Continued on Page 4) Second Dean's List HonorsEighty-nine Langer, North, Stevenson, Tytko, Trumbull, All in '36, Make First Grade Averages Eighty-nine underclassmen, in- cluding fifty sophomores and thirty- nine freshmen attained Dean's list averages for the second mar king period. On the first Dean's List issued after the mark:; that came out on November l, there were forty-nine sophomores and fifty-one freshmen. SOPHOMORES First Grade-AB-a: Robert S. Langer, Robert S. North. AB-b: VanVetchten Trumbull, Michael J. Tytko. CE: Albert H. Stevenson. Second Grad<': AB-b; Donald J. Amorosi, Ivlelvin T. Boright, Joseph T. Cohen, Burton B. Delack, Clem- ent A. Finch, Robert A. F'orte, Charles A. Gilmore, Jr., John D Hall, John L. Hallenbeck, Earl W. Henry, William G. Keens. Jr., Her- man Kudon, Harvey M. Lifset. William C. Maguire, George A. Mc- Gee, John A. McGuire, John S. Mc- Knight, Robert J. McManus, George N. Melinette, Donald C. Miller. George F. Murphy, Jr .. Dalwin J. Niles, Carl E. Olson, James L. Palmer, William H. Parsons, Charles L. Reid, Jr.. Thomas L. Rider, John Ross, Robert E. Rus- sell, Charles D. Stinard. Manuel Sugarman, A. VanValltenburd, Jr .. George J. Ward, Theodore H. Wil- mot, Richard L. Woodruff. Morton Yulman, Ivlerton L. Zubres. CE: Michael J. Fiore. EE: Edward H. Bastedo, Arthur A. Bullard, Howard G. Earle, Charles M. Krull, Jr., Willis B. Plummer. Chemistry: Kenneth J. Frederick, Gustav F. Hallstrom. FRESHMEN Second Grade: AB-a: John C. Davis, Fred Feldman, · George P. Haskell, Ferdinand Helm, Jr., James W. McKenzie, Jr.. Charles H. Reeves, Casimir W. Ruszkowski. AB-b: Donald H. Baxter, Fay B. Begor, William Boyd, Kenneth M. Brown, Paul Campbell, jr., Jerome L. Cohen, Saul R. Cohen, William F. Doney, John B. Dowling, Jr .. Stewart J. Eisenberg, Joseph A. Field, Jr , Theodore W. Fox, Will- iam A. Griesau, William W. R. Hughes, Marvin Katz, Oscar J. Mil- ler, Richard E. Passenger, Frank D. Phillips, Jr., George F. Reedy, John R. Rooney, Robert J. Rosen- thal, William B. Shepherd, Franc!~ E. Townley, Charles L. Witham. CE: Vaden R. Butler. EE: George W. Hobbs, Richard M. Kelsey, Joseph L. Tieisen. Che-mistry: Carl R Faelten, Philip B. Moore, John 0. Page. Pl1ysics: Lee L, Davenport. Dr.Ellery Describes Program Arranged Relation of Union For Annual Party Plan to High School Of Language Clubs ~ew York Alumni Association Hears Acting Pt·exy Explain New Educational Policy Dr. Richmond Present To Present Several Farcical Skits Spoken in Mixture of Three Different Lang·uages Zabuesnic In Burlesque Dinner Held Wednesday at Each Club to Give Progmm.:; of Western Universities Club Foreign Christmas Carols In answer to the many queries The modern language clubs will received from headmasters and hold their annual Christmas pa:rty principals and students of sec- Tuesday in Silliman Hall, which ondary schools regarding the affect will be decorated with the tradi- of the Union College Plan of Edu- tiona! Christmas tree and red drap- cation upon the preparatory and eries. The committee is malting high schools, Mr. Edward Ellery, every effort to make this year's acting president explained this re- party as enjoyable as the. parties lationship in an address Wednes- have been in the past. CALENDAR T1might Radio Debate--Union vs. Uni- versity of Buffalo, WG Y 11 p. m. Tomorrow Daily Assembly Speaker - Alex;ander Turner, '34, \Union College in the Model Councils of the League of Nations\. Basketball-Union v,;. Stevens. Sunday Sunday Service-Union Col- lege Choir, Memorial Chapel 11 a.m. Organ Recitai-Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, Memorial Chapel 4 p.m. Singing of Christmas Carols- Memor-ial Chapel 8 p. m. :Monda.y League of Evangelical Stu- dents Meeting Room 5, S. S. S. C., 3:30 p. m. Philomathean Society Meet- ing--Old Chapel, 7:30p.m. Tuesday Daily Assembly Speaker--Mr. C. N. Waldron, \Union History. College Observance Of Christmas Will Culminate Sunday 2nd Annual .Morning Musical Service to Take the Place of Regular Exercises Sunday Christmas Carol Singing College Christian Association St>onsors Function in Chapel day evening at the annual dinner The committee is arranging sev- of the New York Alumni Associa- era! skits, all more or less farcical tion which met at the Western in nature. The first of these short Universities Club, New York. plays will be put on by Robert J. Among the guests present was Rosenthal, '37, William Mul'l'ay, '37, President-Emeritus Charles Alex- and Edward Durehian, '37. This ander Richmond who directed the Jobs Are Found By College's Bureau The Union College observance of Christmas will culminate Sunday evaning in the first annual Christ- mas Song Service sponsored by the College Christian Association. The Association has completed elabot·- ate plans for the gathering at 8 o'clocl;: Sunday evening in Memorial Chapel. As in the past, Dr. Tid- marsh's organ recital at 4 o'clock Sunday afternoon will be devoted to Christmas music with the Choir and Glee Club assisting. A morn- ing musical service, begun last year, will again take the place of the regular Sunday chapel exercises at 11 o'clock. affairs of Union from 1909 to 1928, skit is to be a take-off on the con- Mr. Charles N. Waldron and Mr. ventional melodramatic situation in Nelson W. Nitchman. which the villian enters, leering and unusual Willingness to Work Is Shown by Students Who Earn Way Through College Chapel Specially Decorated The Union College Plan will free stroking his mustache, to demand the secondary school curricula as the payment of the mortgage which much as possible from college dom- th f k · t ination, when it goes into effect e poor orsa en w1dow canno next September, Dr. Ellery said. pay. After many touching passages rhis \hands off\ policy will be the play arrives at a happy denoue· maintained as far as possible in or- ment, in which the long lost son der to allow the \high schools to marries the French maid. The odll job department of the College Employment Bureau which was cst::tblished in October is work- ing out in a satisfactol'Y manner ac.:ording to Miss Frances Travis who i~ in ·charge of the work. The Chapel will be especially decorated for the Christmas music with greenery and with candles in the windows. Words of the songs will be flashed on a screen at the evening carol ::;ervice and an am- plifying system installed in the tow- er to carry the music over the campus. At this service Dr. Tid- marsh will lead the singing of old familiar carols, assisted by the Choir and Glee Club, and will play :;~everal organ numbers. enlarge and enrich the mental out- :ook of their boys, whom they know ;o much better than we (colleges) do, to make possible concentration of intellectual effort on the develop- ment of native quality of mind.\ Removes College Domination Union will lift the heavy hand of college domination from the sec- ondary school curricula by reduc- mg the specific admission require- ments to a minimum of essential subjects. Although an entering stu- dent will still be required to be a graduate in good standing from a secondary school and to have com- pleted fifteen units <a school sub- ject studied one hour per week, per year, equals one unit> of work, Union will no longer demand that every boy must offer more or less the same fifteen units. In other words, mathematics will be required only from those who intend to .;;tudy the sciences or engineering, while others intending to study so- cial studies or literature will not be required to offer mathematics to enter college. The reason for this teduction in the number of specific admission requirements, ::;aid Dr. Ellery, is that \everyone has some intellectual blind spots which no amount of m<!morizing affects. Some lads do mathematics and science well, who are failures or strugglers in lan- guages and history. Some lads are particularly sensitive in literary ap- preciation and comprehension of historical or governmental or eco- nomic movements, who seem al- way::l incompetent to grasp and ap- ply principles of mathematics. Sec- ondary school teachers have con- tact with this intellectual charac- teristic of the human kind long be- fore college officers do. Colleges have been in error when they have ~ompelled school boys to use mental energy in an effort to overcome ouch intellectual limitations. The ~allege of the future will be wiser J.nd ask schools to inspire boys boldly to concentrate their intel- ectual energy on the development of their natural mental ability \ New Adaptation Possible By reducing the number of spe- cific subjects required for entrance, the secondary school men are al- lowed to adapt the content of courses and methods of instruction to the conditions of the secondary schools. This adaptation is at pres- ent impossible, despite the fact that the secondary ·school men \have broader contacts with human life than college men. They meet a larger group of students, springing from a greater variety of environ- ments, with almost unlimited vari- ability in mental attitudes and moral standards, and with some ideas, or with no adequate ideas of what makes for refinement of liv- ing ... \ But the chief reason for reducing the number of specific entrance re- quirements for college is the fact that it is impossible to fit all boys into the same mental mould. Dr. Ellery emphasized this point: \The secondary school teacher knows (Contimted on Pa.ge 4) Lincoln and Grant Abraham Lincoln will be portray· ed conversing with General Grant six months and eleven days before the battle of Gettys·burg. The Gen- eral will be played by Arthur Mc- Cullough, and the \great abolishon- ist\ by Robert Rosenthal. The clubs will also produce a bur- lesque opera, which will star Pro- fessor Auguste Zabuesnic. All of these skits will be in a mix- ture of French, German, and Eng- lish, with the English predomin- ating. Rt>id Will Play Charles L. Reid Jr. will give a short program of piano music, in- clucling Chopin's \Fantasic Im- promptu.\ Each of the clubs is go- ing to present a program of the Christmas music and charols of their respective countries. The French Club will sing \Cantique de Noel,\ \Noel Daupsinois,\ and \Les Bourgois de Chartrese.\ The pro- gram of the German Club will in- clude \0 Tannenbaum,\ \Stille Nacht\ and \W·eihnachtslied.\ A quartette from the German Club will also give some selections. Students have been sent out on call to wash windows, wax floors, wash automobiles, mind children, S\!1·ve at dinners, move furniture, put on storm windows, act as night watchmen, and to do variou~ other types of general work. Schenectady housewives have bPen generoru; in their cooperation, u.nd lldve made it possible for some undergt·a:duates to catry on their eclucati'Jn. The but eau has twenty students who must have help of snme kind during the second sem- ester if tll..?J' are to continue theit ed ucution, and thP.re is a list of sev- eral undergraduates who a1·e par- ticularly anxious to work ih 1 eturn for thei.r boa1 d. or for their t·oom. In teturn for a: room they are willing to louk after the furnace, .;hovel the walk:; and assist with the gene1a.l cleaning once a week. The bur~eau h<~s noted that the stu- dent.; ate nut only gtateful fot· any opportunity offei ed but al.;o that t.htPy an unusually willing to ac- \ept c.ny kind of job, however small 1t m.1y be. The money earned b not u;C\d f01 ;pending money but f!pplirtl toward necessities. o---- -- - Local Chapter of Pi Delta Epsilon Abolished Tuesday It is planned to have Mr. Za.bues- nic and Mr. von Forstmeyer give --- short talks on the Christmas cus- The local Chapter of Pi Delta toms of France and Germany. These talks have been much a.ppre- Epsilon, national honorary journal- ciated at the parties of other years, lstic fraternity, was abolished by a and have afforded the students an majority vote of the members pres- ent at a mc;>eting Tuesday after- opportunity of _learni.ng something noon. of .th emanner ~n whtch the people It was also announced by the di- of other co!-mtnes celebrate o-ne of vision of Social Sciences that Pro- the few .h?!rdays common to the tessor Frederick L. Bronner has whole CtVIltzed world. j been aslted to investigate the re- The refreshments which will be llationship of Pi Gamma Mu, nation- served will consist of punch and al honm·a ry social ::;cience society cookies. to the Social Science division. New England Singing School Object Of Amusing Comment by Dr. Nott The learned Dr. Eliphalet Nott loved to il)ject philosophy into his classroom lectures. In a lecture on communication of feeling he made this comment. If one of this class should go into town and have a fracas with some of the townspeo- ple, should the whole town get ir- ritated against him, and 8hould you go into town, you would in all pr-ob- ability get your heads broke for no other reason than that you belong to the same seminary, though col- lected from all parts of the world. If you knew philosophy you would stay at home for a few days until the tumult and fray had subsided. ·Dr. Nott also showed his knowl- edge of the affairs of the younger people of the nation by the follow- ing interesting comments on the New England singing schools of the time. Ih New England the power of song is wonderfully displayed. Singing schools have been estab- lished thete ·for many years. It in- clines the people decidedly toward matrimony. The people of New England generally marry young and many marry for love. If you should inquire, you would find that half lhe rna tches proceeded f1 om attachments formed at singing school. If a set of wary parentE should see their children assembled at the age of thirteen to continue together till twenty-one, they would say at once \Why this will never do; they will all fall in love.\ And so they would inevitably. To thPse singing schools is owing the sur- pnsing increase of population in New England. In fact, marriage there is universal. You would not find an old bachelor, except here and there one from other countries, throughout the whole community. In this state, it is far otherwise. I could reckon up fifty within the circle of my acquaintance. You may say the same of the Southern State8. If I had it in my powee to direct the making of songs in any country, I could do just as I pleased with the people. At the morning service the musi- cal clubs will again sing the Old French Carols which have become a regular feature of their Christmas programs. Otner choral numbers to be sung offer considerable vari- ety. In contrast to the refreshing, simple character and peculiarly quaint gaiety of the French carols Otto Lang's \Tres Magi Gentibus\ and Harvey Gaul's \March of the Wise Men,\ sung last year, possess a marked oriental quality in har- mony, rhythm, and melody. \Pat-a- pan\ and \Mid-winter two spirited songs not frequently heard, \While by My Sheep,\ and the unusually tender, sensuous \Lo How a Rose E'er Blooming\ complete the vocal program. Tidmarsh's Recital In the morning Dr. Tidmarsh will play Dethier's \Christmas with its marvelous development of \Adeste Fideles,\ a Scotch noel, and \Christ- mas Evening\ by Mauro-Cottone. At the afternoon recital the musical clubs will sing two g1oups, and Dr. Tidmarsh will play several groups including the \Hallelujah Chorus,\ Dupre's \Nativity and the familiar \March of the Magi Kings\ by Du- bois. , Solo parts in the Musical Clubs' numbers will be taken by Herbert Hausser, James Horan, Thomas Brown, Reynold Crane, John Moore. and H. William Smith. Esmond Gifford will play the chime accom- paniment for several numbers. ---0,--- Finley Says New Plan Will P1·epare Students Better \'Union can give the best training for the essentials of teaching in her academic, social, and athletic cur- riculum. The New Plan for The Intellectual Advancement of Youth will give satisfactory preparation, necessary for the attainment of a teachers' license\ said Mr. David Finley, '13, in his chapel talk on \The Call of the Teacher\ yester- day. Th<2 speaker, told as an illustra- tive annecdote concerning our ex- pre.;;ident, Dr. Day. \A man once said, 'I would rather be warden of Sing Smg than a college president. because the alumni never come back.' Dr. Day wa,; ltnown to have refuted this statement, for he realized the close cooperation and the friendship that the alumni have with Union. They are very anxious to find out how to be helpful. Mr. Finley said in part: \A man must have at least >'iX or seven characteristics, such as knowledge of the subject that he will teach, .1 sympathetic under- standing of his ::~tudents, a strong character so that his pupils will look up to him, leadership, vitality and inspimtion to encourage hi~ charges to consider teachings as a profe:;sion. \Your college career is just the p ~riod of sowing the seeds of the loyalty plant. Your love for the alma mater increases as you grow older.\ . I I • I ' l I ! I I. '

. i J if ''•' : i t l :. ! Two . THE CONCORDIENSIS; FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1933 baH, Coach Nitchman · has accomplished a 1 ~ ·rn • ' Ilerculean task in so thoroughl·y discarding RAND. OM Q'BS.ERVA· · T'IONS · jl EASY ~N THE:EYES_ lJ (, · ·_ -.· SIS the antiquated ~yst~m in use he1·e lat=~t year. • · · . · . · · ; • ·_ · · . ' . · . Three '··ears ago, \.Nels\ !\itchman. as the .By \A Causa Pepsa Pt;i'l'dle Assai\ FOUNDED 187(). 000 These are the days when captain of a Union quintet, was typical out- Sidr~ey 'David Mar. krnan_ man:y a coach discove·rs that he's- standi . n.g -.plavet' 0· ·f the -old school. This s-ea- just the caboose on the college \ train, For a good many atumni ~\s;;odnted @oilegiate 'fve~!l scm, Coach Nitchm.an first changed his OWN don't really want a CO<Ccl}, they A CATEGORICAL l.l\H:':ERATIVJ;: ed Society or the P~Seud,o-Intellect:. ,want Merlin the magician. >: -Of~~THE. - -~ - - •1'-) J 3 ~AI11)0114i:\\ ~~~.tl~Pi~~tRA~E) 1934 =-.. · ~op.cept of the game and then used his dj-'- .I!'Oit BOHEMIAN::l ual Bluffer: 000 Here's some sound sense The official newspaper of the students of {!~ion College. Published Tuesdays ancl !Fr1d~ys throughout the college year, •except dul'lng namic ener!r.V to dri]!] his team, veterans and He iti a modified ll.ind of a Fe~ about coaches fwm B1U Bi·ngham, ~ There comes a ti-me in the lives Liver. He accepts conventions but who spoke at the Bwcl{ U lJ;nner aH, so well i.n the new t;.tpe of p.Jaying that of intelligent yOimg men When they does not forget to la·ugh at the~ .. :her:e a few years ago. At Harvard's , wt~h to tdem-ay -tnemselve,; ati be- Also he is not so much an a-pprec1a- :victory dinner qn Monday, Bill ,;aid: · they have already won their first two- games. ,ng apart hom the mob and there· tor of beauty a\ a creator or it. At ·•we don't expect a coach to tu 1 n T~an1 work in the Clarkson ga,rn.e '\Vas bette!' by to u:'lselt their indivJduahty. the same time -he is a well educal· out a team .that will win all it~ There a1 e many and various ways ed young man who rea:Jizes thP ·games. We -do want the coach to · than has been ::;een on the Alumni g:ymnas- m which they do this. 'l'hNs they futility of the .Amelican College .. give the boys the oppo1tunity to Uhtistmas and spring recesses. . Publication Office, The Gazette Press,. 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as ·· Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price l'jve c~nts a COJ?Y;_ :$3.00 a. year; delivered anywhere m -the Umted States. 1 -fall into very definite categories. Sometimes the You.th.ful Pessimist win, to teach them how to play iur:n court is l1liltl,Y yem·s; n0 one P ayer was· (l)-Tile .1!'1·ee Living Disdainer -t.otlres on an O;xtotd accent, dons a. football and: to try to :<,ovin, I! the outstanding; as ln previous years. ·of Convention: Him w1U you rec- ~making Jacket, drink:> cocktails· other team beats us, we want it to ognize in that he .thinks he iti dtf- out of tall g-la,;~es. The charactet· be because the othe' team played But the revolution in the game as played ferent. What is more, he sneer·s a~ 1stic which predomina:ce:'l in h1m is the beUer football. I will stand up anyone who wbilles by what has .his ever-willingness to carry on for any coach who ha,; done a good . by UnioN was not the only unusual event of ·been considered good in the past. witty con.ver:;atlOUB, meanwhile job, who ca:n lUlU out a team Wnich · 8ometlmes the Uisdainer of Con- ocolfing and )Joking merciless!·~ ' vvHl win some games. Alter all, a that night. The larg-est crowd in five years, vention is found living in a garret. what is nearest to our hearts. H(; coach is like a salesman, H the except foi' the R. P. I. contests, was present,. And H he does not li-ve in a garret, reads only the latest books and salesman cannot mal>e any sales, Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union •College Campus. Telephone, Schene~t:'!tdy, 4-01.33. A Lid! ess all businc:;s communication!' to Arthur J. Katzberg, 'Kappa Nu House, Umon ~oll.ege, Schenectady, N. Y. All other comrnumcauons to George H.. Cory, Jr., Psi Upsilon House, Schenectady. ·he attempt:> to make the ·place he smart mdgazme,; like New Yorke! you do-n't want him.\ • and 1·eceipts wet·e officially estimated to be does live in look .Jike one, 'l'here and Vanity Fail·. He buys enorm- 000 The season on \All\ teams is t . I I C 'd · tl f t ·axe no cha1rs in hi:> home, only OU3 quantities of the mo.-c thought· ;;till open, and the Boston Herald SENIOR BOAR'O WI ce as arge as USUa • . onSl ermg . 1e ac · pillows strewn all over the either .ful modern novels which he stack< prints an All-ltalo-American college that the weather at the time was none too .ed or black floor which is marked in premeditated haphazard fashion team: Caito, Brgwn; Ceppi, Prince- George R. Cory, Jr ..... , , ... , .•. Editor-in-Chief Arthur J. Katzberg .......... Business Manager with ring,; where the paint has been on his b0okshelv~s. In the earl~ ·ton; Pacetti, Wisconsin; Del Isola, fayurable, and that it was the fir.st home eaten away by the high alcoholic 1920's he was a.n avowed followe1 .Fordham; Burzio, Carnegie; Fer- • f th t t·h f t l'e content of highba-lls set the! e to of St. Henry of Baltimore. The rara, Columbia., Tosi, Bo.;ton Col- i gan1e or e eam, ese - ac s are even mo rest, while he would wave his arms Youthful Pe.>simist sees no need o1 .ege; Buonanno, Brown; :Ferraro, impressive. Althoug·h the crowd was large, denouncing the world so full of going to clas,es and associating Cornell; Nicholini, St. Mary's; Ca- mundanc trivialities. The world at with a lot of dough-headed profeo- • rideo, Notre Dame; coach, Lou Lit- it did ct·edit to the colleg-e by the nmnnel' in large is concer-ned with pettine:;s ;;ors. He can do much more by· tie of Columbia. c. William Huntley ........ , .. Managing Ed!tor Rubert H. Smith ......•...•....... News ~d~tor Arnold J. Friedman .............. Sports Ed~tor Prince E. Oleson .... , ........... Feature Ed1tor Mo1 ton C. Stewart. ..... , .Circulation Manager JUNIOR BOARD C. Hathaway .J. Woolman ~~~I'ger -~-. _. ~ _ _ D. TYI_o_11!ton _ SOPHO!VIORE HOAIRD J. AndeJfon V. Gilbe1t R. Nmth C. REid, Jr. A. H. S-tevenEcn Issue Editor .... Clemens F. Hatha,vay FRIDAY, DEC-EMBER 15, 1933 COME ALL YE FAlTHf'UL The favorable 1·esponse or the student body to the questionnaire circulated in Daily As- semblv a few weeks ago b~· the Union Col- ]e<re Chl'istian Association and the g-reat in- b • terest shown by nmny of the students as m- dicated by their enthusi<tstic comments has removed any doubts of receiving support that the ot·gnnization may have had when it sought student opinion on the advisability of sponsoring tht>se activitiL·~. The college Y hns already made plans to hold group singing of Clll'istrnas Carols this Sundav and, after consultiil?' with the Chief of Police of SclH.'lH'Ctady, is planning- to do work \\ ith juvenile delinquents sometime after the coming 1·ecess. The Christmas singing this Stttlda~· will be the first activity and it will mark the spre~d of the revived Cnion College sJlirit to othe1· than athletic contests. We feel that the enthusiasm which students have alrearly exp!\e~sed renders any uro-in<r to attend on our part unnecessary, but \~e al:;o feel that a reminder thnt the event v.-ill take place Sund<tr can do no harm. The success of the first endeavor of the organization will no doubt have a large influ- ence upon the :-;uccess of other activities which will be sponsored in the future, and it is primarily for this !'eason that we urge all students to give theit' whole hearted support to the Christmas singing·. The pt•ogram this Sunday and the other activities which the aso<ociation plans to sponsor in the future, we ft·el, will do much to develop g-reater unity in the student body and to enrich college life. We feel that the org-anization is making a g\'eat contribution to Union and we can find nothing but praise for those who in any v,:ay help to promote these activities. Therefore we hail the Union College Christian Association for making Union dearer to us. A NEW TEAM The basketball team's decisive triumph over a strong ClarkRon Tech quintet last Tuesday night hcmlds the arrival of Union's New Deal in the comt g;m,e,-a romplete change from the old individualistic style of play to a modern, well-unified, five-man scor- ing- machine. With one grand sweep, the old school of l>askethall with its one or two st<:•llar players was replaced by Coach Nelson Nitchman with an entirely different t;v·pe ()f game, a game that 1·elies on teamwork alone for its effectiveness. Starting his first year as mentor of baslcet· h · h · -.1 d t tl h 1 d d and unnecessary formalities whicl1 himself. Witness for instance hi~ '\V lC It responue 0 1e C. eel' e~ el'S an J.eaden h1m so that he cannot live a Wide 1e:1dmg. Otten the Youtilfu 1?00 Tht·o~gh the lrindness of Pta- refrained from the childish booings at the iull lite. Some extreme lJisdainew Pes:>imist writes essays full o1 Lessor Wamger, on lea':e to study wear beard:, where all other men ::;cathing c!Iticism of our modern at Cornell, we have rece1ved a copy referee. d.te clean shaven, and ar:e clean society. His cynical demean01 ~ <?f the \Areop.agus\! a lively stL!d~nt ~haven where all other men a-re softens when under the influence 01 · JOUrnal of dmcuss10n and opm1011 All in all, the new team, the spirited crowd, bearded. They strain very obvious- liquor. But when thus inebriated .• published ~t Ithaca. It sells tor the d th I t h . f th Cl 1. .y to be informa'l. So 1ormal be- he can ptoduce really great litera- modest pnce of five. cents, und may an e c .ean spol' snuns !p 0 e arl\SOil c:omes their informality that it be- ture, However he Iefu::;e::; to havl' be one of the harbmger:'l of a new men combined to make the evening an un- <!Omes much easier to live by what It published. He does things fot ' day ·in college journalism, they hate, old fashioned conven- the :sake of doing them and not fo1 · 000 From one of its columns, we usual success in Union's athletic career. tiona. At least if one lived that way any other motives except perhap; tHt the following quotation from Lt would be pot>sible to know what that of making an imp1 est>ion. HE' Margaret Ayer Barnes's novel\Years to expect. But the Convention Dis- confines himself to a shady sort o. of Grace.\ \The trouble with edu- GOOD IMPRESSIONS The neatness of appearance of the g·ym- nasium floor \\'cts a treat to a numbei' of eyes who had not ~een it since the close of the 19;j2-1933 basl\etball season. The De- partment of Athletics dese1·ves high praise for the improvement fot· \Vhich it is respon- sible for. Such an added attraction to the contest is in keeping with the quality of basketball that is being played this season l.Jy the Yarsity quintet. The fact that the whole backgTound fot· the games has l>een altered is certain to impress the vi::~i tors and U !!ion's guests all season. 1933 seems to he a year of \New Deals''- Union has certainly fallen in line with the movement in every d.epaetment of tlw colleg·e. GET BEHIND THE ADMINISTRATION Professor Charles N. Waldron, Secretary of the college, is no\v completing his annual round of the fraternities. These \luncheon dates\ of Professor Waldron s.erve to fmther a ver~' fine caut=~e, that of finding new and suitable student materirtl for Union College. dainer would shudder if he thought living to which he refers only it. cation is that we always read every- that even for a moment you linew half statement:; and in a sly man- thing when we're too young to what to expect of him. In that ner leaving a great deal to thf know what it means. And the ~vent the wnole effect would be lost Imagination of the listener, wh<. trouble with life is that we are al- and he would fall into what he I imagines him qUtte a roue. Thl ways too busy to re-read it later.\ dreads mo~t. namely, the common- most .dbtl;tguis~ing ~~ara~teds~ic 000 One of the grande:>t maga- plece. by which ;you. mlght le~ogmze h~n. zine articles in. years is to be found ('!) Th~> Adn!escPat hltt-llPctual ltl, m short, h!s utter dJsr~gard .to, in DE'CE'mber Harpers. It is called and Lonl\ly Apilreciator of tilt' fan!e wh1eh he could ~ave If he JUst \The Struggle for Intelectual In- Beautiful: t~~K th.e t1 o~ble to, gJve the WOll.d tE>grity\ and is by Pl·ofes~or P. W. h1~ creat1on' tf on.y he wou!Ll sit Bridgman of Harvard, the noted Unlike the FrE'e Liver who is m- down and C'rentc th••m. phy~icbt. As the editor of Harpers rogantly different from the ral.Jble, (4) 'J:.:hP DPep-1•yed s_eaJ•ch~>~· In- well says, the article is dynamite the Adolescent and Lonely Appreci- to Reahty . or the Pensive Philoso· all the way through. .J.tor feels that the rabble Lloe.o not pher: He 1s not .. as co.mm_on as th€ 000 Somebody blundered in de- understand him because it is cal- othe1_ threE'. ~~ _Qomctl.me:; happen, ;;igning the jaclret for the book \We loused with a hide thicker· than that tha.;t ne ~mows »ometlung .wh1ch he Move in New Directions\ by Pro- of an elephant when exposed to has ~eatd from one of h1s profes- fessor Harry A. Overstreet of c. c. things of beauty. Who else can a1.•· sors m lecture. These pearl,; 01 N y The volume rehearsl's our preciate the poetry of John Keat:'l Wisdom whtch the profess01_s have m'any. swings toward the left; and as dues he'! \lvho else reads philos- gott~>n out of some book wh1ch th\ the J·acket is ornamented with ophy but he? Who has ever heard Der>p Eyed doe:; not know of he of Beethoven besides himself? No the- Pensive One, spouts with' un: n;an~ arrows, all pointing to the one, except perhaps Beethoven. canny glibne,;s and sincerity o. nght. Who else has ever been struck by tongue. He is set apart from thE 000 Woes of a column conductor •he infinite beauty of the Mona others in that he is most prone to who does not always read proof. Lida whihc he has never seen? For s-it and talk with those of similar Last week we spoke of those who whom was the library of Union sympat;~ies as to the ultimate were \born to like the Ma1 x Broth- College built if not expressively for nature of the universe, the NRA. ers\ and it came out \born to be tum? Who else has ever done any what is good and evil, the sex ques- ~ike the Marx Brother;;.\ The joke reading? Poor lonely creature that tion. He is full of deep rooted con- IS on us, maybe we were? he is, no one wants to listen to his viction and really feels that what 000 And so till 1934 the Commit- poetry. And he knows that it is he has to say is not without it::-· tee on the Useless U~e of Leisure good. This h'\ knows. because l~e; me.rit. Sometimes he takes on the Time wishes you the merriest of na.s made a companson. There gUise of the refo1me!' and shower- Christmases. will come a time when he will be of-the-right-path-to-freshmen. AI' appreciated. For the moment he freshmen think he is indeed wise. IGNOTUS can do no more than pity his for the Philosopher having a ver:v ~noronic contemporaries who have tough and long-suffering behind .1ever read Thus. spalte Za.rathustra sometimes makes Phi Beta Kappa. Jl' Spinoza. Therefore he seeks out * • * the older men for companions, and These ar2 the categories of Bo when he finds them equally dull he hemians. There are such great ,rnmerses himself in bool{S and ap- numbers of these Outlanders in om predates even more vehemently colleges that no other conclusion art and music as can no one else. ~han this can be reached; namely, 1f you want to be different, strive (3) The Youthful Pessimist and Cynical Eyer of Our Unsophisticat- to be commonplace, very very con· ventional and old fa~hioned. MUSIC by Rankine Hinman II contain similar surroundings, it Week's Best Editorials seems entirely w:Lhin the realm of 1 n these days of dep1·ession, it is no easy II reason to look for such a 1oom in matter for a colleg-e to accomplish its two !!;:;;;============;.!. the present structure. It is not to<J ends~to maintain simultaneously the aver- THE LIBRARY AND READING Utopian to imagine that one of the At a time when many college customs are losing their vitalit:y traditional Christmas functions a1 e acquiring increasing strength and popularity. So popular are Christ- .nas vesper services and carol songs .n vanous colleges that admiss10n to many of them is restricted to those procuring free tickets issued o'l.ly to the capacity of the chapel. 'd f 't d d t d t k FOR PLEASURE seminar rooms might be renovated age Sl e o I .S un ergra ua e an 0 eep up and equipped in the desired man- St. Lawrence, which has a chapel choir of eighty voices, holds a Christmas Choral Service Sunday afternoon, immediately pt•eceeded by a very beautiful ceremony, the Service of the Lights. At the be- ginning of the service the only light is a lone candle on the alter, sym- bolizing the Light of the World. From this flame all other candles used during the service are lighted . \Silent Night\ is then sung, fol- lowed by a choir procession which completes the Service of the Lights. At both St. Law~ence and Lafayette a brass quartet plays Christmas its record of scholarly achievement in the It is the proud boast of many an ner. The change could not be ef- class of students that is accepted. As is the undergraduate that he enters the fected without some cost, it is tme, case with almost every other college and uni- portals of the Library only when it but the merit of the project would becomes absolutely necessary from easily outweigh the expense in- versity in the United States today, ther.e is the standpoint of maintaining an valved. At least, some of those who only one method by which this may be ac- d<dequate scholastic level. Howe~er now openly boast the infrequency . complished. There must be whole-hearted mistaken such an attitude may be, of their visits might be prompted it is nevertheless true that very to undergo a change of attitude, cooperati-on on th-e part of every member of few students make use of the Li- and experience some really pleasur- the administration and faculty, every stu brary for any but strictly academic able hours within the walls of the dent, and every fraternity. Fo1· this reason purposes. In other words, very few it seems that the plan that Professor \Valdron students go to the Library with any idea of browsing through shelves is putting before the fraternities this year is of interesting books and spending a worthy one, and one that shows us that the an hour or two in pleasurable read- administration o.f the college is fully prepru·ed ing. to work with us in our efforts to bring new Although there may be other rea- sons for this condition, one strikes students to Union College. The requisite now us as being particularly obvious: is for us to aid the adminish'ation in every there is really ho room or place in way possible and to show it that we have the the entire building where one may escape the rigid formality of the interests of the colleg-e at heart. interior or the uncomfortableness The plan Professot· Waldron suggests i~ one with which every fratemity should gladly fall in lin!'!. It entails no great amount of work, in fact no more than is required by the usual rushing activities. The plan pro- vides simply for a sub-freshman week-end to be held sometime in the spring, preferably early, aild in the lull between winter ai1d spring sports. lf the f1·aternities are willing to invite sub-freshmen to their various houses as week-end guests, the administration will cooperate by providing the entertainment. of its straightbacked furniture; no surroundings, in short, conducive to the pursuit of entertaining liter- ature during one's leisure time. What a contrast to one of the rooms in the new North College Li- brary at Amherst where the need of such an atmosphere has been realized. \.A lat>ge, beautifully pan- eled room, to be furnished with lounges, easy chairs, and reading lamps, it will contain books, refer- ence books, modern fiction, boolts on art and travel and great litera- ture of the pas.t, all selected with an eye to the undergraduate's bene- fits and pleasure.\ While it would be expected that ,?. J)eW librkl.J:Y 9U the- Cfl..OO,Pl.J~ WQUl!i institution. ---o music from the chapel tower. All of the University's choral or- THE FRATERNITY LIBRARY ganizatioils unite in. the Lafayette In conjunction with the above Candielight Vespers, a high spot of editorial it might not be amiss to which is \Silent Night,\ sung with the chapel ih complete darkness. say a word concerning libraries in Following the service, which is reg- the fraternities. Many of the houses ularly attended by over a thousand have a collection of books, in some students and their friends, tile cases, a well developed and well- musical clubs give a short informal cared for collection. Too often recital at the President's Recep- however, it consists merely o.f a~ tion, encyclopedia or two, the chapter Yule log and wassail bowl spread records, a mass of text-books out cheer at the informal party which of use, and assorted bits of fiction, ,Haverford students and faculty mere drosa, most of it, taking up hold. Singing, an uproarious old room which might be used for up· English mummers' show, and to-date literature or interesting and stunts supply a spirited program. permanent books used in college An old Haverford custom, the p:;rty courses. was renewed this year after a lapse F t of several seasons. ra ernlties might do well to plan The Syracuse Glee Club will pre- a definite program for the develop- ment of their libraries. An interest- sent Handel's \Messiah assisted by ing collection of books can be the soloists of such note as Dan Grid- greatest cultural asset of any house. ley and the Canadian bass-baritone, Interested alumni with the desire Norman Joliffe. Williams and Smith to contribute somethil\g .to their glee clubs unite in a joint Christ houses should feel that either do· !Uas C?ncert while several colleges, nations or suggestions to the bet· mc!Udmg Hobart, Hamilton, and terment of their own fraternity Syracuse, regularly produce miracle bookshelf would be the best kind or morality plays, frequently as of gifts, and would be just as much sisted by their glee clubs-. Before f th d f th · the Hobart play students gather or e goo 0 e cdllege as for Sunday evening at the President's that of the fraternity. house for an annual Christmas -'.l'b.~ Col,&\3t!l ~l'!>.Pn. C!!.rPl .Sin/f. -~- I I. !

he's. umni they ... nner ~aid: tULn its to to play the it to layed up good all, a the sales, is Isola, Fer- Col- , ~Ca- Lit- PJo- study copy udent the may new we from Years edu- to the re al- found called In- P. W. noted de- \We Pro- C. C. our and with the proof. who to he joke of ns a1e h and songs ted to issued chapel Ids a ceeded the be- Y light sym- World. dies ighted. fol- whieh ral or- of g with is reg- s, the Recep- spread which old and ogram. p:;rty lapse ill pre- by Grid- Smith Christ- and as- Before gather .~· THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1933 Three Five Plays Stevens Tomorrow-• ~ ------------- un 1.on ·s k Tht.rd v.· ctory 1. Gain, If ' .. ' '.'. ' ... '.' 0 0 o.l ::mmm::m::;;;;::;m:mmmmmmmm::m::mm::m: . .( . · ee s . · ·. .• . Mil~no, c .............. 4 2 10 :;; ;:; Smith, c ' ... ' .. ' ...... 0 g g m Intramural Bas'ketball ii~ Against Fast Hoboken Men !l1~f~tl:~~~~:::·::i! it p~: IJ!:m:::::::m:::m::~.~.~,;~,:.~mmm:m:m::Jl{ --- Gaffney, rf . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 2 2 Sidlec;ki, If, lg .. . . .. . . . . . 0 1 1· · Results Garnet Team That Downed. Quintet T r 0 u. nee s Clarkson 'feeh Will Stad. Tomorl'ow on Union Cout•t ClarksonTech46-36 CambridE\'e, If · · · · · · · · · 3 ° 6 · Phi Sigma Kappa 50, Theta Delta Stitt, If .. .. .. .. . .. . .. . 0 6 0 Ch · 15 Flowers, c ........... , . 5 0· 13 · 'I · • Hutteman, rg . . . . . . . .. 3 3 9 DeHa Pi Nu 27, Kappa Alpha 16. Ryan, lg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 3 5 • See~ing its .third successive vic- Clever Ball Handling• and :Fine. J;otais ............... 12 12 36 · Schedule t01y of the season, a scrappy confl-' Score at half time-Union 18,. dent Union varsity five will match• Defensive Work Gives Union Clarkscn 21. Fou!~ committed-. Tonight-7:30, Kappa Nu vs. Psi· up temornow night against Stevens, d Union 16, Clarkson 15. Fou•ls missed Upsilon. 8:30, Sigma Chi vs. Neu- Tech iri the Alumni Gymnasium at Win Tues. ay in 'Fine Game -Union 6, Clarksen 6. Committed trals. ,8 o'clock. Last year the Hoboken ____ four personal fouls- McDowell, Tomorrow-1:30, Lambda Chi Alo. outfit d'ovvned the Gamet quintet· Cambridge. Referee--Dowling. pha vs. Theta Delta Chi. 2:30, Theta. during t):le Christmas recess by a Unleashing a second half scoring, ---o---- Nu Epsilon vs. Phi Delta Theta. score of 29 to 21. a;ttack that completely ove1 whelm- .3:30, Phi Gamma Delta vs. Alpha Coach Nels Nitchman will smrt ed an overconrtuent <...:Iarksou 'l'ecll Simon Leads College Chess .Delta Phi. 4:30, Delta Chi vs. Kap- the same team which began the. •lve, the Union v::usity basketlJall pa Nu. Clark~on game, Ray McDowell and team, led by Ray Mc0oweJI, won Club to Victory in Match Jiggs Rotunda, forwards; Joe Mil- •ts second game of the :;eason Monday-7:30, Phi Sigma Delta ano, center; Captain Puree Dow l'uesday night in the Alumni Gym- --- vs. Delta Pi Nu. 8:30, Sigma Chi and Jack Moffett, guards. The hoop· nasium by a score of 46 to 36. On Interest in the Union College· vs. Delta Upsilon. leader intends to have two teams clle shott ·end of a 21 to lil score at Chess Club has been revived by the which he may alternate against the half time, the Garnet quintet 1 e- recent addition of freshmen en- Jersey five. On the second five, turned to the ceurt, scored 10 points thusiasts. Under the able leadership Sam Jackson and Jack Gain will m thre·e minutes, includmg 1:1 by of Samuel Simon, '34, president of· fill the forward berth~; Van Wald-. 1v.fcDowell, and retained the lead the organization, the club has sue- ron at center; with Ralph Semerad throughout the remainder of the I ceeded in improving the skiU of its and Clem Smith at guard. Jackson· game. members and in entering a repre- returned to the squad yesterday af- t:;oth teams played on even term~ sentative team in the Schenectady ter being out since the Middlebury during the !i 1 st half, with L:Jatkson Chess League. In the las.t match, THE BEACON GRILL DINE and DANCE in Ou.r COZY RATHSKELLER No Minimum or Cover Charge game with a severe cold. nolding an ua!'iy lead by making played at the Y. M. C. A. building, Played Upsala good seYen consecutive shots. Samuel Simon, '34; Richard Kelsey, 756 Albany Street On the Crest of the Hill Stevens inaugurated its season ....:lever ball handling and a fine de- '37; Richard Passenger, '37; and. ----------------------------- yesterday afternoon with a great · rense enabled the Dutchmen to hold Charles Hinltley, '36, defeated the deal of enthusiasm by the student che smoothly functioning 'l'ech team of L. E. Liddle, thus giving body. They played Upsala in the Learn's attack to spo1adic basltets the Union men a perfect percent- aftemoon, and after the game the oy It'lower·s, the giant center, and age rating in the local league. In students had a buffet suppN' and rtutteman, the shirty Filipino l'ight the ne~t round of th~ tournament, several keg.:; of beer, If the team .,.uard. Joe Milano and McDowell the Umon players Will oppose Dr. should be victorious, the would\be ~ad three fouls marked up against Garlick's team, also undefeated. engineers planned a snake-dance them early in the period and \..Oach a----- through the streets of Hoboken, Nels Nitchman ·sent in substitutes CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT DUKE UNIVERSITY School of Medicine Durham, N.C. Four term~ of eleven weeks are giHn e1tell year. These may be talten con~Hut.frcly {iii. D. in three vea•·•J or throe tenns may be taiteJI each l'l'ar (ill. D. In ft~nr 3 ear,). •rhe entrance re· q uiremont s are intelligence, <'harader and at lea<t two years of college worl£, lnc!Ulling the subjects sperified for Grade A l\ledl<•al Schools. Catalob\lt~s and aptllieu titm forms may b1l followed by a celebration in a local to relieve them until the second FOR CONCORDIENSIS ili~~ ~L . The Stevens lineup tomorrow night will include Costanza, bril- llant fo<ward, who also .played against Union last year, and was picked on the all-opponent team. Costanza is a fast man who dribbles well, and has a very good eye on the b~ket, both on long and short shots. His running mate, Disch, the other forward Is similar in style of play, but not quite as fast as Costanza. Doppler is the Stevens center. He is nol an especially good man, but works in well with the Stevens dribbling offense, which starts slow- ly and works !'or the bloc!{ and pot- shot. The guards are Krayer and Salvatori, both of whom are fair on long shots. These two are capable defensive men and along with Dop- pler present the Hoboken engineers a fast outfit. Costanza is the only real threat on their team, and hif= threat constitutes a fast offense. The substitutes Include Eastmead, Church, and Brister, The probable lineup for tomorrow mght: Pos, UNION STEVENS RF McDowell . . . . . . . . . . Costanza LF Rotunda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Disch C Milano . . . . . . . . . . . . . Doppler RG Dow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Krayer LG Moffett .......... , .. Salvatori ----01---- UPSALA BEATS STEVENS HOBOKEN, N. J., Dec. 14 (Spe- cial) .-Upsala defeated Stevens In- stitute of Technology here today by a score of 51 to 26. Costanza, brilliant Stevens forward scored 13 points, half of his team's total. Salvab:ni s·cored 6 points. SYRACUSE BEATS CLARI{SON The Syracuse University quintet defeated Clarkson Tech Wednes- day evening on the Archbold gym court in Syracuse, by a score of 41 to 23. Syracuse will play Union January 17 in Syracuse. The Rein- deer have one of their strongest teams this year, consisting of a number of veterans. Union Defense Holds Moffett and McDowell kept the team ilL the runn·ing during the opening minutes. The much vaunt- ed jump shot of Flowers failed to tally much due to the tightness of Lhe Union detense expeCially at the ct-nter position. The second half opened with a cyclonic attack on the Clarkson bas•ket, with the cyclone personified in McDowell, who put the Garnet in a substantial lead. The rest of the contest resolved itself into a battle of the pivot men, w!h Milano hold- mg the edge in the fray, scoring 10 points to Flowers' 6. It was during this period that Union's followers we-re treated to as fine an exhibi-tion of fast aggressive basketball as has been seen in years. The home team's fast breaking offense wa:s unusually effective against the vis- ,bly tired visi-tors. Accm-ate on Fouls In gerteral the Union five showed both strength on both the defensive and the offensive. The former was more or less understood but the lat- ter proved to be something of a surprise. Scoring power was dis- played in ervery position, with a great portion of the shots taken be- ing mad·e good. Accuracy was ~!so displayed on the free throw ll_ne, Union making 14 out of 20 tnes, while the Engineers made 12 out of 18 good. In the second half the Dutchmen outscored the Tech five, 28 to 15. Towards the end of the game the Clarkson offense slumped into a weak attack trying to rna:ke good on long shots. Union was untiring in their desperate charge through the Clarkson defense, and scored practically all of their field goals near or under the bas•ket. The summary follows: UNION (46) FG McDowell, rf . . . . . . . . . . 7 Semerad, rf . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Rotunda, If . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 FP Pts 4 18 2 4 1 5 A separate circulation department for The Concordiensi,; will be creat- ed in the near future, it was decid- ed at a meeting of the Publication Board Wednesday afternoon, at which time the appointment of Morton C. Stewart as circulation manager was confirmed. Competi- tion for this position will be an- nounced in the near future. THE BRASS RAIL obtaint'tl from tho Dean. Schenectady's Smart Rendezvous In the Marine Room Where We All Eat Where We All Meet ~~ LOBSTE~i~LA~~O~YSTERS jj Ill MIXOLOGIST DE LUXE Ill m 8 State St. Phone 2-6135 Opp. Hotel Van Curler Ill ·!am:::m::::::::m:::::::::m:::::m:::m:::mm::::m::m::::::::::mum:m::::::::m::::m:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: WE'LL COLLECT YOUR BAGGAGE -take it home ... and bring it back again Boys! How Do You Like Them? Here is a simple time-saving sug- gestion that will eliminate a lot of unnecessary trouble and worry for you. Send all yout baggage, trunks and personal belongings home by Railway Express. Express service an economy not to be sneezed at. SANDWICH INN Make Your First New York Call At Arthur Murray's Hurry in to brus•h up on your dancing-rates still low Don't forget . . . as soon as you ge-t to t~wn, get in touch wi.th Arthur Murray to arrange for a few inexpensive dance lessons. Then you'll be .an set for the holidays, with an interesting repertoire of the smartest steps-your dancing smooth and faultless. Partners are sure to murmur, \You dance· di- vinely!\ But you m\Jst be .sure to make your reservations early so you won't • get left.\ There may not be en-ough teachers at Arthur M]lrray's to ac- commodate the 'big holiday rush. SPECIAL NOTE: Rat~ are still comfo1·tably low! ARTHUR MURRAY 7 EAST 43rd. STREET Wherever you may live, ifit is within regular vehicle limits, Railway Express will call for your trunks and bags and speed them away on fast passenger trains through to destination. You'll be surprised how easy it is and how quickly your trunks will be home. Thousands of fellows-boys and girls, too-have found Railway Then, after the holidays, send your baggage back the same way and Railway Express will handle it swiftly, safely and promptly direct to your fraternity house or other resl.dence. Railway Express has served your Alma Mater for many years. It provides fast, dependable ser- vice everywhere. For rates and all necessary labels, merely tele- phone the local Railway Express office. SERVING THE NATION FOR 94 YEARS RAILWAY EXPRESS AGENCY, Inc. NATION-WIDE SERVICE On Sale Dec.l.4t:h ~o Jan.lsf:--Ref:urn Lim if: Jan.l5t:h Round-Trip Bargains J UST in time for Christmas and all year-end travel-Greyhound cuts round-trip fares to a new low. :Reductions good on all Greyhound :schedules in modern, comfortable coaches heated by Tropic-Aire. You'll·find it's First Class Travel at bargain rates. r -=----~.~ ...... -: .. ~r~:--...-~-~-,--~ ... ~~ ~-----~.~ .. -----~-.-.\?\\\~.-~--.:-----=-,, ~--~ ~~-~ ~.....:..:..-~ ~_.b...:::$..-...;; ~.....__~ ~...-.:.---= ~- ... -~~ ~-----~ ~ ~ :I ~~ ~ ' .· h ~COLLEGE MENI ~-~ ~ n ~ ,i I ~SHOP AT YINICK'S I ~ b I ~~ I I ~ F y ~ ·~ or our 1 d ~ ~ .... :.: XMAS GIFTS I r~ We Suggest the Following I I! I ~ Shirts Tie and ~ ~~ Robes Handkerchief Sets ~ ~ Pajamas Cigarette ~~ ~~ Slippers Containers ~·~ I Gloves Neckwear ~ ~ Gloves Hose ~~ ~ Jewelry Golf Hose ~ 1 Mufflers Tuxedos ~~ ~~~ ~:~;~::, ~:,:• Suim ~~ ,% I Coat Sweaters Overcoats ;;~ ~~ Lighters Derbies ~·~ ~ Tie Racks Jackets .i~.; I Bill Folds Raincoats ·: ~~ Hats Underwear ~ .. '.~ .. I Sweaters Silk Robes ~ ~ r ... , Spats I J ~ And Numerous Other Useful Gifts '~ q ~ I ~ ~~ (Gifts All Wrapped in Christmas Boxes) ~ ~---~'. .~-~ :~ I VINICK'.S MEN'S SHOP 1 '.~ INC. I Store of Courteous Service ~* !·81 ! ~ Next to Liggetts ~ I ~~-: .. ~~~=-~ ~i:;,dlJ:niL~!!!III~!!!!~~ ~~~~~~~ ~ilf~?dJW--~ iJ 467' ST .ATE STREET Near Clinton Street ~)

' .I i ; . 'I t:' Four THE CONCORDIEN.SiS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1938 Ellery Describes Relation Of Plan to High School ments, the Union College Plan has specified requirement to enter ·the Thursday, January 25, 9 a. m.: first group he would place those provided for grouping all the studies division of social studies. The re- Economics 20, Electrica>l Engineer- subjects which make a firm J!ounda- lll college into four \very natural\ maining subjects to malte up fifteen ing Laboratory <Seniot·J, Electrical tion for some specialized study, divisions: the division of language units may be chosen by the school Engineering Laboratory <Junior), such as mathematics, history, or and literature; the division of math- and the boy. \There is nothing in Mathematics 1 <except E. E.l, English. In the second group he <Continued from Page l) ematic;; and sciences; the division the study of mathematics that is Structures, Advanced Surveying. placed those subjects which would of social studies; and the division absolutely essential to the success-, Friday, January 26, 9 a. m.: Elec- lead directly to a career, a:nd in the better than college teachers ihe of engineering <civil and !\lectri- ful pursuit of literary or social trical Engipeeripg: Theory (Senior, third, the 60 called cuJ.tura:l or mental limitations of school stu- cal). studies in college, Then why re- E. E.), Geology 2, Psychology 2, \snap\ courses. dents. He knows that it is impos- quire it? It is more reaso,nable Water Supply. ----·o--- _ sible to fit all boys into the same Each Division Has Chairman and intelligent to· limit entrance re-. Saturday, January 27, 9 a. m.: intellectual mould. Nature does not quirements for the language di- Economics 3. do l ·t. \'Iuman J'r'genuJ'ty ha_s ~ot \Each division has its chairman . . h 1 E 1 . h d 'M Ul . h' . . 11 t .Lc •• • 1 t ff h d' · · VISIOn to sc oo • ng 1s an .one ' r. · r1c s BectJOns w1 · 1•epor accompll 'shed 1 ·.t, 1 ·n spJ·te of lnsJst- and instructwna s a , eac ·lVISJon th 1 , t c· . 1 E . . B 'Jd' · · 1 s ·fi d d o er anguage . . . o lVl ngtneer1ng . u.1 1ng, room ence through deca des of unintelli- has 1ts own curr1CU a. peel e a - 106 tt' t' t · · · t t h di In brief, concluded Dr. Ellery, , and Prof, Buri(e · s sec tons · o gent Standard ized admission re- m.J~swn reqmremen s o eac . - th Ch . t L t R f W an·en's New Dollar Plan Is a Complete Failure d ed to n bsolute min \the Union Plan will try as far as · e em1s ry ec ure oom. or . t~ on the part of thP col- VISion, re uc · a a - . t· qutrPme~, ~ 11 mwn, vary with the wurk uf the pvoosi!Jie to maintain a. \hand off\ examJna !On·. (Continued .from Page 1) leges .. : diYisions, For example, for the di- policy toward secondary school cur- **The examination in Drawing 10 He s~ud boys could be for:ed to visions of engineering, and, mathe- ricula\. will be .given in rooms 301 and 303 notes under terms of the currency memorize l\~t .an!>~PrR t~ sevPral malic.; anJ :odunce~, the only :-pc· o of thP Civil Engtnoprlng Building. amtmument tu the Home Loan hundred questwns. m a gtven sub- cifled entrance req1:1irements are GJ(al'I·s Announces Schedule o. Bank Bin. in 1932. During 1931 over ject for repro~uctwn on .?'n exa~- English and mathematics. That is M E J V } Of ination, but tl;ns w~s the mecham- l'easonable and intelligent. The best For First Semester Exams l. avor . xp a:tns • a ue . a billion dollars was distributed to cal not the mtelllgent method of school men know that as well as ___ Study of Biology Ill College' ex-soldiers in pa1 t payment of ad- education\ and d,oes , .. not ~how college men. No man should be justed compensation ·c.,\tificates. It where a students mtellectual in college who is deficient in the Dean Garis announced this morn- ---- was said that these payments would blind spot\ may be. use of correct Englbb·h-. and no. man . ing the schedule of examinations \Biology will be the greatest fac- stimulate business. The records New Requh·ements in these days can e an engmeer for the first semester. The schedule tor in the future social development or a scientist (especially i·n physical follows: of mankind, for it teaches him what show that -these payments neither To enter Union College, beg-inning sciences) who lacl•s a sound foun- AI! examinations will be held in is going on in his own body,\ sa,id increased the amount of money in next September, he said, \a boy dation in mathematic;;. These sub- Bailey Hall, room 300, except where Dr. James' W. Mavor, hea-d of the circulation nor prevented the busi- must first present a recommenda- jects are specifica-lly required to en- noted. biology department, at the Thurs- nes;; situation from getting steadily tlon from his school principal. That ter these two divisions-nothing Monday, January 22, 9· a. m.: d,ay daily assembly in his address, worse. Again, in the summer of is reasonable. Such vecommenda- else is essential, neither foreign Chemistry 21, Chemistry 31, Eng- \The Place of Biology in the Col- 1932, Congress pass·ed: legisiation tion involves more than scholastic· language nor history nor economics !ish 13 (Civil Engineers only), Geol- lege Curriculum.\ Illustrating his authorizing national banks to issue standing. It gives an idea of the' nor civics nor any other specific ogy 1, Heat Engineering, Hydra.ul- point h;: said, \A man is happier in approximately a billion dollars of boy's ability and interest in scho- subject. Then why require them? ics, Psychology 3. his Jog cabin, if his body i.s fit, than· additional national .bank notes. Ap- lastic work, and an indication of his It is fairer to the schools and to the Tuesday, January 23, g a. m.: if he is in an airplane iwth an up- proximately $228,000,000 of the.Se intelligence and his character. Sec- boys to leave. them free to make Building Construction, \Mathemat- set stomach.\ notes have been issued since this and, the applicant must show that up. t.he remam~er of the fiftee~ ics 2, Mechanics (·sophomore), Me- Dr. Mavor restricted 'his talk by enabling legislation, yet the total he has completed at lea;;t Jlfteen unl~ti of work fi_om a ~.IOad field 0 chanics (junior). saying that it was not what the volume of money in circulation has units of school work, but, with ver·y therr own choosmg · · · I Wednesday, January 24, 9 a. m.: student studies, but how he studies, not been increa:sed the·reby. The limited exceptions, those fifteen The only specifl.ed entrance re- *''Drawing 10, Electrical Engineer- and ha he must adapt himself to total is about the same as it was a uni.ts a~e no Ionge,~ definitely pre- quirements for the division of Ian- ing The?ry <.Junior C. E.J, E~ectri- his own abilities. year ago, All that has happened is scnbed m advance. guage and literature are school cal Eng1~eenl?-g Theory <J';~mor E. By an arpi:trary classification, that we have more of national bank To correlate the college curricula l English and another language, . E.), Engmeermg. Law, Plulosophy Dr. ~avor drvtded the courses of notes in our circulation and !es·s of with these liberal entrance requa·e- while school English is the only2, Thermodynamics. study mto three groups. In the other kinds of money. \ ::: !~§ ;:~:; ~:;; I1 ::::· FULLY PACKED No Loose Union Debates Buffalo On Polish Corridor Question The Union Varsity debating team will meet the University of Buf- falo's women's team in the third · intercollegiate debate of the season tonight. The debate will be broad- cast over Station WGY between the ho1,1rs of 11 p. m. and 12 midnight. The topic of the debate is \Re- solved: that the Polish Corridor Should Be Eliminated by the Res- toration of the Region to Germany,\ The men representing Union are Seymour Horowitz, '35, and Clark Cummim, '37, both of whom arP inexperienced in varsity debating The names of the Rochester team are as yet unavailable. The judges of the evening will be the Rev. Thomas S. Mutch, of the First Presbyterian Church, Sche- nectady; Professor John Preston Comer, of the Department of Po- litical Science at Williams; and Mr. Vaughn F. Abercrombie of the De- .partment of History of Scotia High School. The decision will be an- nounced over the radio at 12:30. ----01--- CLASSICAL CLUB MEETING At a meeting of the Classical Club at his home Tuesday evening Dr. George D. Kellogg read a paper en- titled \The Popular Philosophy\ to the members of the organization. Robert North, '36, gave an account of a Roman Banquet, recently held in his home in Walton, N. Y. The subject under discussion in the eve- ning was \Saxon Art\. WHY ~UCJKIES ARE SO MI~D~ SO SMOOTH ALWAYS thefinest to!Jaccos ALWAYS the finest worlunansliip ALWArS.luclies please/ Open a pack of Luckies and lay the 20 cigarettes side by side. You can't tell one from another. Every Lucky is round,_ firm and fully packed-with choice Turkish and domestic tobaccos. And every Lucky is free from annoy- ing loose ends. The tips afe clean-cut -the tobacco doesn't spill out. That's \vhy Luckies draw easily, burn evenly -and are always mild and smooth. \it's toasted 4 ' FOR THROAT PROTECTION-FOR BETTER TASTE I j

the ght. 'Re- idor ny,\ are arP ting be the che- Po- Mr. De- an- Dr. to The eve- ··-' • trnsts Vol. LVII, No. 25 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TllESUA Y, DECEMBER 19, 1933 A .i\Ierry Christmas And A Happy New Year To All PRICE FIVE CENTS ====================~========~~==~~==~ Br. onner's Report Advocates,IFeder.al Control of Deh~ters n;feat~d 1 llitdieal Changes in Student Ab lfjttj f p· G M Security Markets ByGirlsTeamFrom T ' e · o I Ion 0: · I · .amma · UIAppears Inevitable Buffalo University axes Advocated In Report Investigation Is Result of Concordiensis' Attack Sev-1 s t --- ---- Permanent Committee Composed of Bursar, One eral Weeks Ago; All but One Officer ·Of Union·· c~1bal: Committee \ViU Prob- Horwitz, Cummings, Gamet SeniOt·,One Junior to Determine Appropriation of Chapter Confei· with History Professol' on Mattet· ~~ ) Recommend Federal Representatives, Lose by a Funds to College Organizations Urged in Report 4) _____ _ (~ontrol at Next Session Unanimous Vote of Judg~es -------- - <• ELLERY FOR ABOLITION Acting Pres. Taking Proper Steps Toward Removal of Pi Gamma Mu From, Union The report of the investigation sponsored by the division of sociaf studies and conducted by Professor Frederick L. Bronner into the sta- tus of Pi Gamma Mu at Union Col- lege concludes with the resolution that the national honorary social science society be discontinued be- ginning September, 1934. Professor Bronner's report also makes pro- vision that the division of social• studies will welcome the organiza- tion of a local social studies club, provided the initiative comes from intucste:l students. · Ellery Comments on Report Commenting upon the report, Dr. Edward Ellery, acting president, said, \I am taking the proper steps to act favorably upon the action taken by the social science division to remove Pi Gamma Mu from the Union College campus. I intend to appoint the whole questi'm of hon- orary societies and their connection with Union College.\ The report notes that of the 121 chapters of Pi Gamma Mu, only 41 are located at colleges or uni- versities that are on the accepted list of the American Association of trniversities. Moreover, only about eleven pe.r·cent of the colleges which have chapters of Phi Beta Kappa, the zenith of educational' societies, also posse::.s chapters of Pi Gamma Mu. The n.eport Professor Bronner's report fol- lows: Recently, the college paper, The Concordiensis, has been carrying on a campaign against what it termed the \honorary\ society \racket.\ Among others Pi Gamma Mu, an honorary society for stu- dents in the social studies, was named. This attack naturally forced this division to undertake an investigation. All but one of the officers of the Union Chapter have conferred with your investigator as well as students and members of this division. Much local criticism has been leveled at Pi Gamma Mu because of its expense. The facts of thP. case are that the dues at present are $15.00 with an additional ·charge of $5.00 if a key is desired. Of the $15.00, $7.50 represents the amount which goes to the national organ- ization. In return for this sum, the local member ~:eceives a certificate of membership and a subscription to Social Science, a quarterly pub• lished by the n<1tiorml organi:i;ation. It would not seem to your investi- gator that the benefit rec~ived is commensurate with the financial burden imposed. Att-empting Reduction of Dues It is true that the local chapter bas lately attempted to bring about a reduction in local as well as na- tional dueil.. To so stress the finan- cial aspects i;>f the case s!'emr< to your investigator to obscure certain ad·ditional facts concerning this or- ganization. They are of such im- porta:.nce that were no du~>s r~­ quired to join Pi Gamma Mu, h1s recommendations would be the same. There were in April, 1932, some 121 chapters of Pi Gamma Mu. A;n examination of the colleges m which these chapters are located reveals the fad that only 41 or about 33 per cent are on the ac- cepted list of the American Asso- ciation of Universities That means that the graduates of approximate- ly two-thirds of these colleges are not admitted to universities be- longing to the association-the leading universities in the country. As the American Association of Universities makes a very careful investigatiqn, the burden of proof definitely rests upon a college not on the ac~epted list. Phi Beta Kappa Correlation Low Furthermore of the 114 colleges and universities of the United States that ha:ve chapter.l of Phi Beta Kappa only 13 or about 11 per cent have chapters of Pi Gamm,I!- Mu. On the other hand, of the 121 colleges and universities that have chapters of Pi Gammru Mu, only about 11 per cent have Phi Beta Kappa chapters: While this is not (.Conttnued •. on..:B•:g.e .4) Students Form New Speaker Bureau Undergraduates to Eam Part Of Colleg·e Expenses Ad- dressing Schools and Clubs K~D OF LAISSEZ FAIRE Control by Stock Ex.change And FedNal Reserve Banks I~~tiled to Prevent the Crash Bl HENRY W. TULLOCH THIRD CONTEST Gold Standard and Inflation to Be Subject of Next Varsity I<~ncounter Against Fordham The varsity debating team, 1 eprc- The ignominious facts .that arc Seven seniors and two sopho- being uncovend ·before the Senate senteLI by 8eymour Hmwitz, '3ii, mores have been placed on a list Committ<::e on Banking and Cur- and Clark Cummings, '37, met de- of stu-lent speakers just issued by rency at the present time have feat at the hands of thP Vnive1 sity the newly organized Student Speak- focused attention on the olLI pz ob- of Buffalo team Friday night by u ers' Bureau of Union College, it was lem of J·egulating security markets d d so as to control speculation. The unanimous ve1 diet of the judge::;, It announce yester ay by Miss Frances Travis of the employment present administration i::; commit- wa~ the third intE'J coi!Pgiate 1'11· bureau in the Dean's office. ed, und~r the Democratic Party's. counter of the season for the Gar- platform pledge, to the regulation The Spea:kers' Bureau was de- of security markets \to the full ex- net team. veloped by Miss Travis as a plan tent of Federal power.\ It is highly Polish Corridor Question to help students earn part of their pwbablc, theretore, that this prob- college expenses. A canvass is now lem will be a main issue in the com- Broadca~t by WGY, the local ,;ta- being conducted in schools and ing session of Congress. tion of the General Electric Com- business organizations to place one pany, the debate was on the topic, or more of the speakers during the To Recommend Federal Control \Resolved. That the Polish Corri- next semester. Fees for the various. According to reports from Wash- dor Should Be Eliminated by the speakers range from $2.50 to $5.00, ington, the Senate Committee i::; ex- Restoration of the Region to Ger- plus expenses. pected to recommend Federal con- many,\ Miss Ruth Freeman, '34, The membe 1 s of the speakers bu- .trol of thE' Stock Exchange. AI- and Miss Doris Kreinheder, '35, up- reau are almost without exception though the President ha:; intimated held the negative for the University outstanding- students in the field in that he feels that the occasional dis- of Buffalo. The judges we1·e the which they hav• 3 cho.sen to speak. turbances in the titock market are· Rev. Thomas S. Mutch, pastor of All of them have been recommend- less dtsturbing to the country at the First Presbyterian Church, ed by some faculty memher· who is large than are the periodic upsets in Schenectady, Mr. Vaughn F. Aber- an authority on the particular the markets for agricultural staples, crombie of the Department of His- topic. the te1nper of Congress is probably tory, Scotia High School, Scotia, New The subjects of the speakers such as to mal'e the regulation ot York, and Professor John Preston cover many fields. Travel, radio, the securities market the more im- Comer, of the Department of Po- polltics and economic events, phil- ho;~~~~::.s~e~ !~rJ·o~~fy~~~~e~e~a{~~ ~lf 1 ~~m~f~~;,\ 1 a~:lliams College, osophy, athletics, journalism, psy- chology and college life are all on Senate, has stated: \It is mthez· sm- Nex:t Debate With Fordham the list. prising that the le::.son of 1929 The speakers and their general should be so quickly for gotten, or The debate concluded the activi- \9ontinued on Page 4! ties of the forensic team until after subjects are: Irving Kushman, phil- Christmas recess. The Garnet will osophy and politics; Leslie Long, -~---- o- -- .. -- meet the Fordham University team economic events; Sidney Markman, Turnel' Describes Union's on Friday, January 12. The debate Elizabethan music, Religion of will be broadcast by WGY from 11 Ghandi; Robert Oppenheim, ath- Role in League Council o'clock unt1·1 12 m1·dn1·ght TI1oma letics·, Robert Smith, Journalism · ti ___ Crowley, '34, and Carl E. Olson, '36, and College life; Samuel Simon, will argue the affil·mative of the psychology; John Ward, Unemploy- Alexander M. Turner, '34, spealr- topic, \Resolved: That, in View of ment Insurance; Bradley Plummer, ing on the topic \Union College in Present Conditions, Adherence to Radio as a Hobby; Robert North, the Model Council of the League of the Gold Standard would Be Pre- Travel. Plummer and North are Nations,\ in Daily Assembly Satur- ferable to a System of Controlled sophomores, and the other seven day morning outlined the part play- Inflation.\ The names of the Ford- are seniors. ed by the two delegations rrom ham speakers are not yet available, _____ 0 ___ _ Union which represented China and nor are those of the judges. Mexico. He also mentioned some of Many Students, 'fownspeople the highlights of the session which ----o ---- took place a week ago at Syracuse Philosophy Group To Give Symposium .Join Singing Christmas Carols university. The delegates from the six col- In spite of the inclement weather a capacity congregation of students and townspeople gathered in the Memorial Chapel Sunday evening to join in the singing of Christmas Carols under the direotion of Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh and sponsored by the Union College Christian As- sociation. Amplifiers were placed on the balcony of the Alpha Delta Phi House which broadcast the singing to all parts of the campus. Dr. Tidmarsh opened the services by playing selections from \The Nutcrgciters' Suit•' on the oq~an During the course . of the evening the choir rendered two selections, \Midwinter and \Sleep Little Dove,\ with William Smith, '33, as soloist. Mr. Walter Angell, organist, assiSited Dr. Tidmarsh during the leges which participated, Turner said, presented their arguments and discussed the various prGblems, which the League in Geneva must solve, not from their personal point~ of view but rather from the point of view of the countries which they repre.,;enterl. The conclusions 1 cached at the session of the Model Council were somewhat different from the con- clusions that probably would be reached by the Council of the L~ague at GE'nPva, but neverthE'les«, the arguments and discus:;ions rP- vealed a thorough understanding on the p~ut of thE' delegates of the p10blems and the issUE's involved. In closing, Turner said: \The delegates were sincere and earnPst in their efforts and intelligent in their discus~ions of these weighty Professor Larrabl.'e Announces Program for Annual Meeting Of PhilosOIJhical Association service. problems. P!dn;; for the 33rd annual meet- ing of the Ea;,;tern Division of th~ American Philo,;ophical Associatron at Amherst College from December 28-30 were announced today by Pt o- fessor Harold A. Larrabee. head of the Philot<ophy Department, who is Secretary of the Division. The meet- ing is to be featured by a symposium by three invited speakers on the subject \The Status of Mind in Reality.\ Those who will contJ·ib- -· ute are Professors Charies W. Union College Student Tells of World War Experiences on Streets of Berlin By ROBERT C. NORTH \My father\ began Herbert G. \One day people in the streets Spieske, 1 35, \was a German officer grew excited and ran around, on the Italian front, and my mother shouting and waving their arms. had been drafted to work in a mu- Peace had been declared. Then the n:ition factory. All day my com- soidiers. began to straggle home. panions and I roamed the streets My father arrived with a tattered of Ber~i:n, watching troops poard- overcoat, a worthless rifle, one !ng trams .for the front or watching army boot and a calf-skin shoe. gangs of foreign prisoners at work The next day members of the war on the city streets. We lilted the party arose and attacked some Russian prisoners best; they were home-coming soldiers. I was in huge fellows with blond hair and school when the real fighting be- blue eyes, drafted from Siberia gan. Sold·iers with. machine guns \We were supposed to be · in stationed themselves on the roof of school, but our teachers were most- our school. A pitched battle brolte ly wounded soldiers just returned out in the schoolyard. We were from the Western Front who had shoved into the cellar and kept little interest in teaching' first-grad- there for two nights without food. ers to read ta.nd write. During .the . \Outside· we could hear the clat- last years of the war I used to ter of machine guns and the ex- spend most _of ~y time in the .army plosions of hand grenades. If a barracks, hstenmg to the stories school boy so much as looked out the soldiers told. Some of these of a basement window, he was or- fellows were not much older than dered to duck by a gruff soldier. I. Most boys in their 'teens, big When at last we were allowed to enough to hold a gun, were drilling leave the school. we were warned or had already been shipped west- to crawl home on our stomachs. ward. The smaller ones were work- \The streets were criss-crossed ing ahout ·barracks or stringing with trenches and temporary telephone wires between front line breastworks, houses fallen .in, dead trenches. (Continued on Page.3) Hendel of McGill Uni\'ersity. Arthur E. Murphy of Brown Univer:;ity, and James B. Pratt of \Villiam; College. At thP annual dinnPr on Frirla.v E'Vening. })ecemh!'r 2\l. tlw f'r <'<l dential AddrP~s will hP d<'liVN<'d hv PtofPssor Clarence I. LPwi~ of Harvat·d on tht> gubje<'t \ExperiPnee and Meaning.\ Other papers will be read by Professor Sidney Hook of New York University, author of a recent book on Karl Marx. on \What Is Materialism?\ Professor Frederick J. E. Woodbridge, former De'an of Columbia, and a trustee of Amherst, on \The Unive1·se of Light\; Professor Swabey of New York University on \Political Fic- tions, Norms, and Postulates\; and Professor Carl F. Taeusch of the Harvard Graduate School of Bus- iness Administration on \The Con- cept of Usury-The History of an Idea.\ Professor Grace A. de La- guna of Bryn Mawr, Professor C. J. Ducasse of Brown, Dr. Raphael Demos of Harvard, and Dr. A. M. Frye of Dartmouth wilt also have places on the three-day program, NOTICE With this issue The Concord- iensis suspet1ds publication until the end of the Christmas recess. The Concordien:o~is will appear next on Tuesday, January 9. Tryouts After Xmas For O'Neill's Play Twenty-five to Thirty Players Neces~ary for Mountebanlis Production, 'The Hairy Ape' Tht:: :l.lounlebanks have definitely chost'n for their second play this ~eason Eugene O'Neill's great dwma, ''The Hairy Ape,\ The play will be gil'en here March 10 and 11, but because of the difficulties of production, t1y-outs will talte place 1mmedia tely after Christmas rece::>s, on Monday afternoon and evening, January 8, and Tuesday afternoon, January 9. Mr. Edward I\. Carroll, who will dit·ect the px·oduction, made th1:; an- nouncement in order that students mterested may read O'Neill's play luring the reces>', and thus give a more intelligent reading at the try- outs. Sayler DescribPs nrama OlivPr M. Sayler in his book \Our American Theatet·\ describes Mr. O'Neill's drama a:o follow:;: FRF.SHMEN WEEI\END Committee to Cooperate With Administration in Planning For Sub-freshmen Weekend A 1 adical change in the system of student t::xes, calling for an an- nual ev~Il!at10n of each undergrad- uate ac!JVJty, and the establi:;hment of a pe1 manent tax committee was advocated in a repott submitted to the Student Council by it::; commit- tee on taxation Friday evenin\. A c,ommitt?e consi:;ting of Au:>tin Fox, 35, chauman, Ralph Semerad 35 .. \\'illiam \\'aldr on, '35, and Gu~: Giiti~\'o!d,. '36, wa,; appointed by Dame! F!mn, president of the coun- c i !• for the purpose of cooperating- Wlth the admmi::;tration in planning for a weel1-end devoted to enteJ- taining prospective freshmen. Flinn al;,o annuunccd that the value of cia,;,; office::; would be discussed at the next mt'l'ting. . The tax report was read by V\'il- ham \Valdron, '35, chairman of thP committee, who explained that \this 1 ep<ll t is a new kind of machinP for managing student financ!'s, wh1ch thP committee work<'d out after making a careful study of \~tch organization depending on tht• tax fund.\ \If 'The Emperor Jones' i,; ex- pressionism~- eight tE'n~e dacatto scenes, each concerned with the ,;ublimation of a mood, a mental ~tate, rather than with the narra- The I~eport tion of ·an episode how much n10re Tnc 1epmt of thc committee fol- truly may ''l'he Hairy Ape' be so lows: classi!ied! In eight scenes, 'Yank December 15, 1933 Smith, stoker on an ocean liner, T h and the mu,;cle in steel, lo:;;es the o t c Student Council; faith that he 'belongs' and finds Prefatory Remarks none other. Afte·: due consideration your \In the sweat and the grime of Committee has come to certain def- th~ forecastle, he shouts his creed; inite conclusions regarding the stu- 'Everyt'ing else that makes thE dent tax system at 'Union, It be- woild move, somep'n make;; it lieves: move. It can't move witout oome- ( 1> that, as at present, the Stu- p'n. else, sE'e? Den yuh get down to dent Body should tax itself for the me. I'm at de bottom, get me! maintenance of desirable under- Dare ain't nothin' foither. I'm de gi\lduate activities; end! I'm de start! I start some)>'n (2) that there are at present ve1·y and de woild move::>! . __ Steel, obv1ous maladjustments in the al- dat stands for de whole t'in«! And lottmE'nt of these taxes which obvi- I'm steel steel--steel!' <> ously affect the amounts the Stu- Faith Crumbles dent Body now pays; T (3) that there should be au an- .. o him in the stoke-hole come::; nual evaluation of each under~rad­ a pampered da.rling of the class he uate activity, so that where po:sible doesn't 'belong-.' She stands aghast there shall be, as now there is not at the 'hairy ape.' His faith crurn- a definite relationship between th~ bll'~. He sc-el!s revenge. He hurls t tb himself aga inot the automatons of ax .e Student Body pays during the church parade on the a\'enue, ~ year and the return it realizes and ea.! ns Blackwell's Island for uring thb same year; his pains. In hi::; cell he hears of (~).~hat certain undergraduate the I. W. W., hunts them out. and activities are or can be to varying gets pltc hed into the gut tel' as an degrees se!f-suppor ting ag<mt pi m·oeat or The Proposed Systt>m \'I'm a busted In?;E'r:-oll, dat's Therefore, your Committee recom- what,' he muses. 'Steel was me. and mends that beginning with May, 1 ownt'd de woild. Now I ain't steel 1934, the ~allowing system be adopt- and de wolld owns me.' ed regardmg the :;tudent tax: \Only for a day mo 1 e. though. At <1 > that the appropria:tion of twilil'(ht next <>VE'ning be confronts funds to the various organization, the gorilla in it,; cage at thP zoo. sh.all be determined by a Tax Com- chums with hio; 'kin' Hl hiH gmping l11Jttee after· considPtation of bud- E\ffort to thinlr out his placP m the gets submitted by the office!:> uf scht'me of thin;!;>'. und 1 s crushed th!'HC organiz_ati_ons; that in rmlk.ing to death for his thank~. 'And, pel- the appropnatwn thP Commitlet• haps' in O'Neill's word::;, 'the Hmry shall c-on><irlPr the degree to which Ape at last belongs.' ·• the particular organiza,tion is 01 Mn~t of\ Cast Is Mat.• can be self-supporting and that the ai?propria tion >'hall be a percentage Practically nil the cast is male; of the cxpenoes in the approl'ed stokers, pri,;onets, I. W. W. work- budget in ratio to this uegr-ee: that e~s, ladle,: and gentlemen. Va.rious thPs£' pt'l cenlages may be subject d!alect~ will be required. The prin- IC? cha':'ge fl om year to year at the ~lpab a.Jt• \Yanl!'' broad, licH-e. dJ,·n·Ptwn \f the Committt•e; tltl<'Uient. <111<1 ]HtWt•lfui; 'l'Jddy··. •a' l_h•· p<>r,.onnel of tire T.rx a wizened, d1unkt·n Irbhman; Comm1Hee .-hall be announecd not \Long\, :, ·nivo•lll!1~. tr•·;wh<'Itltl.· lat.·r tl1an !\iu,·ing-up Day, it ,hall Cocknt·y J:tt, ~lddJt•d llougl:!:·· 1 .,,n~1 .. : of tiH· Bur. .... ;u, .t t u 1 .pu-. \hored wrth. llf'r own ant•nua llt'l , .. S••mor ··n<l a campus Junior, both ou-<, diseont£'nt<'u. anLI proud\; \The f1_om, I he new !'ltudent Council; tD Aunt\ \pon1pous and ptoud a grey Jgl\'e_ 1t undergraduate continuity the lump of dough touched up with umor member shall automatically rouge.\ become the Senior member the sub- Many of the other characters re- sequent year; the Committee ::;hall quirP actors of good physique. A be appointed by the outgoing Chair- Cast of twenty-five to thirty will mar. of the Student Council after tentatively be selected. consultation with the Bursar and the carry-over memher of the Com- ('i\.I.ENDAR Tonight Pi Gamrna Mu Meeting - Poli- tical Science Office, 8 p. rn. Spanisn Club Mreting--Silllman Hall. 7:30 p. m. C!a\s in Journalism-~ Publica- tions Office, Silliman Hall, 7:30 p.m. ' Garnet Gcblins Rehearsal- Old Chapel, 7 p.m. Tomorrow D:dly Assernbly- -Spealier, Dr. mittee; (bJ the budget» to receive consid- er~tion shall have been prepared, wntten out, and deposited at the Bursar's Office not later than the Wednesday before Moving-up Day· the:r may contain items for new eqmpmPnt, expansion of variou' so1~: etc.;,they shall be subject to reviSIOn of a.ny f'Drt and ultimate approval by the Tax Committee: (c) the Tax Committee shall hold hAaringR on the budgets during tbP period ?et~een Moving-up Day and the begmnmg of final examination~. Minutes shall be kept of these meet- Ings as of all meetings of the Tax Committee. At the conclusion of all the hearings the Committe~ shall appr?ve the respective budgets, de- at termme the 1·espective appropria- on tions, and the Student tax; Edward Ellery, \How Wise Men Worship_\ Christmas Recess beginning 12 noon. Classes resumed Friday, January 5. (2) that the tax to be levied shall <Continued on Page 3)

':; I I .h:: ':,j ·: i '1 '' ' '! '', f ' ~. \ . 'Ewo TilE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, DECEl\IBER 19, 1933 FOR WISER s'PENDING Any mJdergrHduate in th< college who ·I F A R R A G 0 J· wants to get the most out of the forty-five P.:..;============;;;;;;;;==========~ d 11 t h . 1 h 11 ']] fi d The Sunday night hymncfest was ! Dedicated· to the pmposition that 0 Hl' RX \\' 1 1C1 e pays allllUH Y \\1 ·. H a 11a11-p ... cker. rtad to .Blt on the 'the English language is screwey: MUSIC .I by Rankine Hinman·~. \.A Cmua l'ersa l'arule A.•.•ai\ FouNDED u:nu encoun.l!_dn~ 1 ~ews in the report of the Stu- balcony steps for being u few mo- these · pome•\ tlOlll the Forest -- - men to> rate- our pena1ty tor a~tiOC!- Pres. Lul~:e Placid Club. All the ever recurdng joyousness and beauty of Christmas imbued There once was a man who for hie-· the· services held in Memorial ~ssodntcd {fotleg\ntt ~'ft'SS dent Coundl's. committee on taxation pub- atmg w.th tran:HHon\'w'' talent; <.!X'-lctly 3·''\ hours from lll~ campus cough Chapel Sunday. By tar the most ____ , __ l)f~!;~;~~.fli£ - 'I'JJJ ... AI,l!l,oAL~:(Iv(RAC.t\ )lJJ4\ lished toda~·. ds the c1ow tiled. uux natura11y coy di::;poo>ttion re]o:c!'d at tlle darl{- Tried all the cures he could pic- impressive and moving of the cough events was the Song Service in the The five members of the committee, \Yil ne~·>J o, the chal'~': no excuse ror 0e1ng ::;elt-consc,mt>l about your And the best without doubt, evening, spoTh.Sored by the Cht'istmn The official newspaper of the students of l!nion College. Published Tuesdays and Fnd~ys throughout the college year, except durmg Christma.-; and dpring t ecesses. l . \\' Id 1 · II G 1 I .-o,ce wnen no one can see w·nete ial11 H l'I!Hl, C l<lll'l11~Ul, elll'Y U llUC, \' the aw~ Ul n01~e 18 commg !tOnL As at last he found oubt, Atisociation. The Chapel, always Is war·m wate·r and salt in a tic- particular.Jy beautiful when snow is --------- Public!l.tion Office, The Gazette Ptes::;, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 need Tt'ilJP, .Au~tin Fox, and Duncan l\IcNab, rhe whote thing wa::; most effective -one or the tew overwhetrnmg suc- cough. on the ground and the air is misty, had itself acquired the s,pirit of the occasion with its walls bathed in green light and bright candles beclwning at each window. As peo- ple gathered for the service organ music, amplified fn:Jm the Chapel, and chimes filled the air with glori- ous strains. Whenever >Jhe looks down lhe aisle She gives HH' u bea.utiful ~maisle; An<.! of all of her beaux Jesel\'e much c1·cdit fm· the extensive work cesse::; we have wttnesseu u,utng our underg!aduute cateet ~car ee1 1 .• Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Clas~ l\bil Matter they did in i'll vcstigating the tangled maze used advi>Jedly> · * * * I am certain .tihe shea.ux Subscription price Five cents a cu~Jy; $3.00 a year·; delivenJ anywhere in the Umted States. of student taxE's :mrl for making constructive \Ve popped on an Annoyance Test the other day: 100 thlng·s that may or may not give you bhe wtl- de~. a<\cording to your ternpe 1 a- ment. Here are nine that rnvan- J.bly \get\ me: She li•ke; me the be.;t of the paisle. Editorial Rooms, Hilliman Hall. Cnwn College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. :rilicisms to ameliol'Hte the p1·esent poorly ,tdjusted ~y8tem. Ite-cognizing the \obvious maladjust- 1. To hear a good deal o.f idle A small boy when a.slred to spell yacht l\lo.;t .,uucily so.iJ, 'I will nacht ;' So hi::; teacher in wratl! Tuok a section of l'ath Carols A we-inspiring Addr e.ss all lJu,;iness communication;:; to Arthur J. Katzberg, Kappa Nu House, Union Coll.ege, Scllenectudy, N. Y. All othe: com~JUmcatlons to George R. Cory, Jr., Psi Upl:l!ion Howse, nwnts.\ the committee makes the prudent go>1>1ip. 2. To hear a grown pe1 son talll- And warmed him up well on the Hpacht. Seated in the f10nt of the Chapel, we were una wure o.f the ct·owd which by eight o'clock had filled eve.ry pew; we have· had few ex- pHiences in music more thrilling than the flood of cho1 us which rolled forward in the ·opening song, \Hark the Hera·ld Angels Sing.\ Wholehearted group singing in which a thousand voices ~oin in- spite\' a feeling of unity with fel- low men and bring::; fo1 th the e:o;- ::;ence of music' beyond any extent attainable in a fu·t mal con~ert S=-'c::cl:::.le:.:noce:..:c:..:.t_a\-'d)._' ''---- _______ ---------- ~ugg-estion that each year every student .ng baby-talk. 3. The odor of a bad breuth. * * A l:~mentable drag in the HPcond <tel marTe<l the Civic Player~· r.en- dition of The Swan l.Jy Molnar. The play Jt~df .1 eveakd a highly poeticu 1 theme shaC' kled by a 1 emarkable . SENIOR BOARD activity that draws ft·om the student tax 4 . To see ·a pertion chewmg foo..l George R. Cory, Jr .............. Editor-in-Chief .-;h;dl be evaluated to find whethe1· Ol' not the with his mouth open. 5. A person giving me a wPak Arthur J. Katzberg .......... Busine;;s J.\lanager c. William Huntley ........... Managing ~aitor undergntduatc>s are \getting their money's nand~hake. Hobert H. Smith .................. Ne...,:; .1!2d~tor .Arnold J. Friedman .............. Sports Ed~ tor \' \'ll'tll.\ ·C'-'l't,•t·!·II!y 01.!!\111'z;'tl.Ol1S 011 the 6. To ::;ee a wc>nl'-111 fondling a ' \\ ..... _, lap-dog. abundance of cliche lines. The play- .:alllllUS :we l1nown to dntw more nppropria 7. To henr a person talking dm- crs can hardly be blamed for the The enthusiasm and spontaneity of the singers must have been an mspimtion to Dr. Tidmarsh. and to Wa·lter Angell and Charles Reid at the organ and piano. The chancel may have been less picturesque with the screen. but the attention which could thus be accorded Dr. Tidmar::;h's direction amply justi- fied the use of slides. The conse- 'luent darlmess, broken only at candle-lit window>J, enhanced the beauty of the setting. Prince !!:. Oleson ................ Feature Edt tor ng a musical number. ungodly dialogues the text inflict- lions than ::; tudent interest in them met·its. 13. A hostess repeatedly urging ed, upon th<cz;r: we had to strain our- .ne to tal{e ::;omE' food that 1 do not se.ves to stL. through that second :Morton C. Stewart ........ Circulation ~lanager JUNIOR BOARD C. Hathaway M. Berger J. Woolman D. Moulton These act iYi til's \\'ill hnve to arouse a mon lively support fn m the student body or elsE .vant 1 act. But we ve been told we go to · . . :the play with the wrung a.ttitude, 9. T':l see over-affe~tiOnate dem- 1 and so pm!.Ja-bly it's a purely sub- m:<tl atton.s between gwl fr·Iend:;. i jective reactio.n t1·aceable to the be con te11t \\'it h less financial assistance than * * • j!ood we had for ~upper. Marvelous This here now Stevens Tech gave 1 what p.:;ychology can explain! ~-· soPHo:umm BOARD H. No1th C. R·dtl, J1. J. Andu;cn V. Gilbert A. H. S-tevE n~cn lsgue Editur: .•...... Joseph \\'oolman -= thL'Y are now l't'l'l'iving from the tax fund. Careful preparatory thought is evident in tlw suggc~tion I'm a permanent Tax Commit tee to con:;h.;t of one junio1·, one senior and the Bursar. \to detel'mine the appropriation of funds to ench organization.\ The deci- Lls quite a scare--at least. un·til thL·j * * * .:;econd-half power-house gut unt!n . way. But the be~t thing we c:,n 1 To YOU$e who occ3slonally ca~t ;ay about the game is that we won I eye;; on these l!a~hed-up intimaciP' it: those twelve missed foul-shub 1 from week to Wt>Pk, we ext<'nd the oom up pretty black. Blessing,; on: tracl:Hionul \wi:;h- you- a -:\len y- ~oe Jilano for slithering in tho,e. Chrr~~mns - and - a - Hap·py - New- ''8.st indispen>1able point~. And re- ·Year . To. Faculty as well a,s stu- 5Ud>J to Nels Nitchman for· turn-' d~nt~: <_:!hn~tma? blds us d1 own our ing out the fightingest bunch of I dtscnmma~rons rn floods of ?enevo- hoopm(;·n that we've seen pbay for 11ence. He1gh ho, everybody. Union. I J. P. rr. -·---- We can only mention the admir- able choice of camls, including sev- ei a! unfamiliar ones. The fading away in the ia£1: verse of \Saw Y e Ever\ by Mozart, with only the balcony singing .the last two lines, gave an exquisite effect to a singu- larly lovely carol. Flower Waltz \Vel! Rect>iwd sions of this committee, although fmal, will STIRO~G ('0.\CHI~G :.; L\FF ~E('ES:.oo;ARY I l.Je made only afte1· a series of hearings on the lt·ead as they should be judging It' one of the ,\epartmenb in the colleges l:mdg·pts fl'Om each activity. The third im-11 Week's Best Editorials . them as college men and won.1.en. We are sincerely grateful to who- ever i·s responsible for the rejuven- ation of the Christian Association and to a.ll who ananged for the. :>ervice and conducted it. The \sing\ was a grand event. surely the premier of a tradition. · 11 ] tl 1 A great deal toward the right end \\'ere kno\1 n to l>e exceptwna Y \\'e~t {, Ie portant feature t,f the report is the sug-ges ~~============;.!I: is accomplished by the high stand- Administration would takl• sU•ps immediate- tion for stauda.rdization, which is apparent CULTURE 'I atds of quality maintained in thP 1 't dramatic productions which are A student audience is above all spontaneous and frank in its ap- plau~e. Friday mot ning Dr. Tid- marsh and Walter Angell evoked a demonstration thoroughly warrant- ed by a splendid piano-organ pre- sentation of Tscha,ikowsky's \F.low- er Waltz.\ Th·e studerrt>J liked the other !'Xcerpts from the \Nut-crack- er Suite,\ but ii was in this Strauss- like waltz. -gripping in the sheer splendor of its bea.uty, that the music canied the listeners up in i·ts full sway. ly to impro\'e that department. Sue 1 a 81 u- in the re·comrnendations for a uniform sys- How many of us, in later years, I presented for our entertainment a:s at ion L'Xbts I ight no\\', !Jut thus far, nothing f . .J d\ . will be enga.ged in that particular well as instruction. tem 0 :LCCOUlltll1g' anu au ltmg, and fm· a field fot' which we are now t1·ain-; A g-reat step in the right direction luL~ been tlti!Ie to make the necessary im- graduate coordinator to serve in \an advisory ing? Of course it is to IJe hopPd I can be O'ained if the ultimate pur- JH'ove 111 en t..;. capctcity.\ Thl' footlmll coaching stafr is a pmt of the The \\'ol'k thus far in tax reform has been !>epartmL'Ilt 11f :\thletics, which is as much a wholly ~ilti~f:tclor_v, and the 1eport should be (ll '\):tJ'tment a,; an,\· otllL'I' 011 the cam1ms. Yet d \ d ..J I I I the ~tu..1e11t a optec Hll approveu JY >Ot 1 .., u the instruction. ;!s fm as football is concel'll- council and the student l.Jody. eel. i·s inadequat•-'. Coach ll:ttfield has had to lUll the \\hole 1t-~tlll hinht'lf fm thrt'e ,\'l':.tl'S, and it is too l>ig a job fti!' hint or any other cnach. Ill' shoultl haw an experienced line EDITORIAL POLICY coach to as~ist him, and this llt>W coach Fm· some time, the editors of this paper :-;hould be g-i\'l'n the rank of instructor, pro- have been considering the editol'ial policy of fpssm· or \rhatever the pusit;on is worth. \\' e feel that the \\'ol'k of Coach I !atflelr!'.s assist;mts was not satisfactory, because thl' other coaches .iust have not had the experi- ence in ftmthall that m:tkes a good teacher. A glance at the cDaching stall's of some of our regular opponPnts indicates that other col- leges the ~ame ::-.ize as l'nion, and which are run under practically tlw same athletic poli- cies do not JwsiLlte to employ more efficient coaches than WP do. Our neighbm·s do not l'xpe·ct nne man to coach an entire team. The old arp:ument that ,.,-inning football g·ames is not the chief purposf' of intercol- lt'giate foot ball still holds as fm· ns we are concenwd. But as !:ill Bin~~ham, Director of Athletics at l!arvarc\ said thP othe1· night: \We don't expect a coach to t!Jrn out a team that will win all its games. We do want the coach to give tht> llOys the opportunity to win, and t11 tPach tlwm how to play football and tn· to win.\ :\It·. Hingham slwuld have said coaches, not coach. . Certainly IlnrYal'd L'nive1~sity has more than one football coach. It would seem that at prt>sent an injustice is being dune to our fu<Jtball men. They go out and practice nll fall, and their instruction is not as good a~ it mig·ht bl'. A football team iR an intricate piece of machinery, and one man cannot produce a smooth running combination. Our eleven should he given every oppoltunity to win ,Q'ames as long as the principles of good sportsmanship are fol- lowed. As long as the present condition exists, Cnion wiJI nut he able to compete success- fully with most of the elevens that appear on our schedule. college p.apers in general and this paper in particular. We ha\'e come to the conclusion that in the shm-t com·se of one year, it is im- possible for a news o1·gan, throug·h its edi- torial colun:ms to accomplish much that is lasting. With th;s f<Ict in mind, a definite editorial polic~· is Leing drawn up which will be car- rierl tlll for several years, at least. The mem- bers of the Junior and Sophomore Boards have been o1· will be consulted, and thus fm· are thomughly in accord with the plans sub- mitted. Si nee -::hese men approve the stand that will be taken, we can reasonably expect that this policy will be cat•ried out at least fo1· the nex: t few years. As soon as p.m:sible, prob~l:bly in the issue of ,Jamuu~- 9. The Concordiensis, a new edi- torial poI icy 'I.Vill appear. WELL DOI.\'E Th t:re h. a~ l>een considerable comment about the campus dm•ing the past two days concemi ng the h·emendous amount of work required to prepare a musical program such as \\'e ltn.d at the three services Sunday. There is little to say except that we are most gTateful to all those who took part in any OJ' all of thes~ festivities. It is u~eless to rnention names. Everyone knows the people who were behind all this work, and their efforts are appreciated. tha.t most of u::; will make pr-actical 1 pose o.f\'a course is closely con:>id- use of our college education in tlw! ered when it is being planned, and .uture by following that line of en-! tf the instructor likewise has a defii- Jeavor for which we are being ptP-' nitc aim while teach;ng it. pared at the present. Experience, -Sophomore Bracon, .;eems to indicate. however. thut u 1 R. I. Rtaie Colle-gt· great many of us will be employed! ______ -o ~~-- ~ . in some occupation which will not 1 Fi\SCISTIC AMER!CA'? depend on any of the couh;es i otudied in college. What, then. will I The di~sillusionment of th0 youth :1 college education havP done lot in the I'. S. reHulting from politic:JI ,his large gtoup? Ce1tainly thP hU!I'aucracy and d('potism and from ,,nowledge of technical and scien- an economic system that cannot tific subjects, if unused, wtll not r e-, care either for the working-cia.;:; or main long with the college gr-adu- i middle-cla.ss student is growing d.te. Unle>1>1 he has sufficient time! rapidly. Students entering politics ~nd intetest to review these sub-! toda~ go in without blindet·s, cyni- J€Cts continually- and these cabes 1 cal, mtent to get as much as they Wt\lcoml' Prosperity The cash earnings of the 425 men at the Fresno State College were about $81,000 last year. This is ex- clusive of services like room and board. * * * are quite 'infrequent in a &hart cnn out of the \ystem. time he will retain scarcely enough: Those who entPr polilico-C'conom- No Wond·Pr ,o carry on an intelligent convet,u- ic movf'rnents the small group Only ,;eventeen ::;ophomores turned 1 out for· the annual frosh-soph IU;,;h tion concerning them. I which is awakened to its neces\ity at Akmn University last week. The The main thing that a collecre --:are for the m?st part ~ompletely 100 fre:o;hmen won the ru>Jh. . . \' disheartened w1th parlramentary educatmn could g1ve the men and methods of achieving a new socia' * * * women it sends out into the wodcl order. oa concept bo:·n of the inade- And W11en Accompanied\? is culture. An appreciation for qua.te and hopeless methods em- Listing their fear experiences, played in our present method of forty-nine out of 100 University of good literature, music and other of territorial Iepresent'ltion atta:inf'd Wyoming students confessed to r. the so-called \finer thing$ in life\ thru the aid of well-financed and fear of automobile accidents, ana when once instilled in. a person. is comequently boss-ridden political twenty-nine admitted that they never lost. Once a person acquires machines. were aflaid of being alone in the This i>1 no unftrue situalion. Both dar!~. a liking for ~ood books, for exam- Italy, birthplace of Fa>Jcism, and * * * ple, he contmues to read good Germany sa.w this same thing oc- We Should 1\now books. Genuine culture, however., cur. Not forgetting that only 15 Because of the fact that the pe· should not be confused with a mere f per cent. of the U. S. college gJadu riod of the sun spot of the past . ates of last year found worli, we years has come to an end, McGill smattermg of enough well known ob~erve that in Italy the youth ie- · Univm·sity astronomers predict a names and expressions to pass for I turned from t~e. war finding neith~r long, severe winter. brilliant conversation. It is deeper I rewards nor Jobs. We see that m * * ,. . . , Germany, where likewise the larg- than that. It ts somethmg genume est part of the population was eith- A Yale Padlock and sincere. If a person has gained er too old to ha·ve been killed in A call to college and university only this one thing in his college warfare or was composed of the alumni throughout the land to op- years the time spent has not been youth who_ had been to war. unem- pose the return of ihe saloon under . ' . . . , ployment mcrea.sed from 954,000 In special repeal was issued last week 'r: vam. For th1s appreciation 1 1923 to nearly 6,000,000 in 1933. by the Yale Alumni Weekly. make.; life fuller and more enjoy- There was no way to turn. Italian * * * able. and German youth thought, but to No Head-piece Nt·eded . . . . a party that would Pnd political Smce this 1s so very Important, bureaucracy, a.t the cost of a According to Madame Albertina it seems that gi'eater emphasis democracy which they now dis- Rasch. the modei co-ed is a combi- ~hould be placed on well planned paraged. a party that would end nation of Venus de Milo and Mae It 1 Th ld . une-mployment. Fascism. mis-namPd West. cu ura .. courses. . ese wou ln- \natiottal socialism\ was alluring. * * • clu~e hter~ture, history and edu- It glorified those who had been to It's No Surpris~ b catton comses.. It_ must be remem- war above all others, promised su- A master'·s thesis based upon a ered that the primary purpose of premacy of that nation for which one of these ~ourses sho·uJd be not th\Y had bled, above all others, and survey of extra-curricular costs of to. cram the s~udent w!th as muc!1 offered political power fo. t! f 'th- a college education at Marquette miscellaneous mformat10n a.s poss1- ful r le ai University reveals that the average ble, but rathey to inspire and give · student spends two cents a week him the necessary impetus to make ' In America, we have had no re- on books and five cents on movies. him search out for himself the cent war to have its direct effect The medical student has the high- beauty and refinemen:t in life. AI- upon our youth. But the economic est weekly expediture of $22.25, though some of the literature consequences of the present ftnan- while journalism students have the courses in the curriculum fit the cia! debacle and the intense dislike lowest. · need exactly, we need more of of any genuine internationism ac- * * * them. More opportunity should be companying the debacle, can send Tbe Mill~ of Human Rindness given a student to study contem- the young people In colleges and A group of Engineering students porary authors, poets alld play- universities ultimately i!lto o_nly one at the University of North Dalwta wrights. This is especially valuablE' camp --that of the natiOnalists, no threw one of the solicitors who . since the writer.s· d\ealt with are of !Uatter what name they bear. There trying to force faculty me be w.;~ our own time and, for that reason, IS but one alternative; intelligent, .subscribe to a · . m rs are more real and closer to the stu- well-disciplined youth must enter '~\ · t h umverstty news-or- dent. Our student body, taken as the ranks of labor groups that will ga~. m 0 t e campus lagoon. The a whole, needs something to en- not fear to uproot the seeds of ac IOn was prompted _by the sixly courage them to read good litera- Fascism or, if established, to up- Pf[ cent balary cut giVen the fac- ture. It is surprising how very few root Fascism itself. fh{ er:::f::e:~:. and the sympathy of ~tudents on this campu$ are as well -SYJ.'a~Uiiie \D~Uy Omn~;;\e\ -AssDclu.wd. Collegiate :Press, •

al st is in es i- el, .. in to at ue on at he ng Ye es, all a nt- i·ts l~l ere ex- of r. the pe- a sity op- a of ette the W:lS to The ixly fac- of • TilE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, DEGEl\InER 19, 1933 Three Ga'.r ,net ·Q· u·.i.ntet .s· co·res Tt..l·rd v•Aatary,' Student. Describes WoJ ld ~Committe~ Re.p-ort Urges I fund. :.t O:e c>nd of the ye.u shall ))pI a•tion,; thtough the Tax Cumlllittee 11. Ill .!.!.~ U' 1 : talt<·n by th•• T:~x Committee ant.! ~hull be uppointr•d. by the Tux Com- G War ExpeJ•iences in Berlin' Change in Student Taxes I d;:dl h·· u:•t'd by it in tlll· ~llh>Ctl'lt't1'l mit tee tu ~ene in un ;nJvt,·ory (;~- Downi~ng Stevens 'll3 ?h. 1 ·m Loose arne ___ I lye:n·~ uppropriu.tiuno; to all organ- pacity: · · · · · · · · · • ' ill · \\.6.1U' 1 · J.l . __ · · , _. _ . --- izution,; 1 Ia) this cooruina.tor :<hall sit in __ ,•;---- , IS:Contmucd ftom Pag-e 11 1 IConttnUI'U from Page 1J 1·11 that any f:UlJ!llH accumulatetl on mt•etmg,; of the Tax Comnllttee 0 0 0 llymg tn the squat e~. My mother, I be a lump ·um ubject to change by uny of the v~n·ious organizations to offet· udvic,. when askc•d, yet Jackson. rf, If · 0 who had_ pven me up for loot,, from yem t; ·~a: at the discrelwn J uunng the cow-e of the y:a• -lhtll \hull hiHL' no power to vote; . Union, Trailing by Six Points At H:.~.lf Tim~. Hits Stride In Second Pel'iod to \Vin Cad.wa'i!ader, rf '· · · · · ·· g ~ 1 lcould barely talk when I crc>pt of the Tax cJ:nmittce lthrou h tt:; be 1\l'pt by these o:g·mtzatton:;; I ih) thP comdmator shall submtt Rotunda, H · · · · · · · · ·' · · 2 1 5 !home. A~t;t· that clay \he fot bade l deternunaticn of approprlatl~ 1 ~ to Uil thnt uny d?lktt in<'Ul !\d. by for aJ,provul to tlw T.ux Committl·e Gain, If, rf · · · · · · · · · · · 0 0 0 .me to lea\e that hou'c>. although 1 the vanou 01 u- tnlzatron- note No any of the var1ous org:J.mzattons a butlg-t't for· lu;; off;ce a::; do the Cwth, 11' • • • • · • • • · • • • · · · 0 2 12 : I used~ to ::;neal\ out WhPn che wa~n·t 1 uboveJ; ttJU {''it ·\hull be !Jaded dur rng the cour~e of the yt•ur· shall, offieer- of th~· vur·r.uus undergrud- --~- Milano, c · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 0 2 2 watchrng me. I would run over to ! upon d. StuJ.: ut Body of a eel taln be a~~urned by them as be,t tht•y ua I<' or g tnrza I ton~; t t ~hull be treat- Ey lUlL TON A. BERGER Wald·r on, c · · · · · · · · · · · · 0 (J 0 '~he . army bar raC'ks and help the 1 detinite e~timutud numl.a:r bUbj<.ct lll~lY.: that no funds i_n l'XCL'>~ of the cd Ill the ~a me manner. After trailing behind the weak Parl{e!', c ... , ... , . - .. , , 0 2 2 I soldre.ts pack sandbag,; fot breast- I tv change from yt•at· to year at the orrgmnl . appr optratwn sha!l ~e Respectfully submrtted, StevE-ns Tech team lor· about three ~~:~·h,r7g·:::::::::::: :: 0 1 wot 1:\· One day when I was 1 ol!et I discretion of the Tax Committee fot thcommg lr om the ~our ce of this C tt on Taxes. 0 1 ,skutrng ln. a large puolic ;;quare .. a !note No.3 below>: that rt shall be appJOprratwn; ommr ee ~aura;·I.tteyrs fi~nfatJ.hlye hgl·a.tmt~t's t.hp~ceUnailolnd <S~lomffee~at,dlgl; ............ 1 2 4 i ma·n ct:ossmg th~ \trect With a d.m-~ collected as at lll'~sent: 161 .that a umfo!·m mt•thod of ac- v \ ~ e \ · b · · · · · · • · · · · , ner pail und.e·r h1s arm was accost- . countmg- ami audrtrng :;hall be de- forged into the lead to win its third Pl'iznar, lg · · .. · · · · .. · · 0 0 0 iPd f?Y a unifo!·med guard .. After . 13) .. ~ha.t t~·~ tux P~l.tl by _any un~ m':'-nded of every organiza.tibn re- THE BEACON GRILL con~ecutive VIctory of the season. Totals ............... 9 15 33 •talla.ng WJth hun a few mmute~. dergz.' <luatc .. m ex.ce_~ of the de\ cetvmg an apptopnHUun through IJLNI<: and DAN('!<~ in Our 33 \o 25, Saturday night in the ? G r;r> I't~ the guard rah<ed hb tifle and dtove I tC'rt~rnc~ . num,bcr . <note.' .~o·. - thP Tax. C'ommrttC'l'; tha.t thl~ nwth.- Alumni Gymnasium. Overcoming a STEVENS 1-51 F ~ the bayont>l mtu the man':; body .• tbolel .~!Mil be tuined. Ole! It;! rt, ad shall be detctmmpJ by tlw Tax •COZY RATH~JH..;I,LER 17 to H score against ·them at half Costanza. 1f ........... 2 2 6 He dtOppeu his pail and sank to E'ntuN~ to the Stu~en, Council to Committee; N·o Minimum or Cover Charge time, the Garnet scoring machme Di,;ch, If, rf ........... 4 0 8 the gJound with a fp,uful gzoan. ~erv.:: \~a fund applicable ill to th.\ 171 that a gtatluute coordinator 756 Albany Street swung into action in the second Daume, If . . . . . . . . . . . 0 1 1 , VVe crept over, only to fmd the t·unmng- expens~s . of the Co~mctl of the pmgnlms of all the vwl'ious On the Crest of the Hill half, and led ·by JGe Milano and Deppler, c .............. 0 1 1 ! victim, covt•red with hh own blood.. I II I t? appropnatJOns . to student organization\ receiving appropri-1 Ray McDoweN, ~cored 22 point,;, Church, ;g .. ... 1 U 2 ,,tone dead. ozganrzatrons :a!!d ptojC'els of any ~~~~~;~~~~~~~~~~~· meanwhile limiting their opporwn~s Sah·:Ltori, q.;, lg :.? 1 ;, 1 \Cundrtion\ becam<• ~ 0 l.Jad tlta.t sort wh<L~e >O·lrcrtatw~-~ ale deemed i;z to 8, including tw.o field ba.:;kets and Kt acget·, lg 0 1 1 . rny father took advanta\e· of an op- wmthy by the Council; five foul shots. Ardrto. lg-. tg U 1 1 'poz;tunity to come to A~el'ica a few (a) the Stud€'nt Council shull con- Union Overconftdt'lnt Eaotmead, l,c; II ll 0 yea'!~ after the war. Before we lett siuPr solicitation,; frum undergrud- Their confidtcnce u.ppal'ently at Total,; . . . . . . . . . D 7 ~,; Bt•rli n, lw took me a.bout the eitv uatPs only: too high a. level, the Garnet hoop- Scot,• al half time l'n 1011 11 ~nd· showell me oi;.;hts whkh h'i.· !i.Jl the ,;urplu:o temaining in thb ffi(n did not function :;moothly at St.evens 17. Fouls committed t•nion' !never wal'l:ted to forget. At the all during the first penod.. The, 11, Steven.- 21. Fo:ll·>' nrb~·t•d Cnion '.pnsent tune I h~ve forgott<'n passes wer·e being mulicd and the' , 0 n.tl .foub _ ~loffett. Co .. tan .. a, ~ rn.~r;h ... but t_he ptctur e of nu:ml.J~r~ 1 shooting was dec 1 dedly ·Off form, i Ktacg<'L Referee Dowling. : !£>':\' cnpples crowdrng the ~.tiPd~ 1 faWi~~·su~~~trg~fre~;s~f~u~~; c~.e~~~ I :::::mm:::m::::;;;:;;:;:;::m::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;: J ~:;~t ~~v~~ i~~c.v: a~:f' ~e~ 0 \~~~~~~~cr~ II We Have the Finest contest bad passed. lt seemed that gj . !:1 lin looks ]i]lf.' When the squares fliP the inability to make rree thmws m Intramural Basketball g 1 not dug-. up wrth ttt·nchL':-l .:1nd lhf· · DE LUXE MOTOR COACHES good might cost the Dutchmen the m ;:: 1 people tu ed out by fightrng. game. Out of founeen chance>i in m Leagues m . ' -' ~ . - . To be had in the Capitol the .first period only seven went !1! · !!1 (;0Hhl<.CT~O;\i ~~~e~a,:&,h~e~~rs~K }~~r ~~~~~eda~S ·,~·.m;mmmm::::::::::::::::;;m;mmm::mm;m:;;;;:;;;: ! Profe:;~ot· z,b\t~;-~~~~ will not takP som~ pretty shots by Disch, the P:;i Upsilon 2·1. Kappa Nu 18. pai·l in a but h·s<Jll\ opera a,; w.as stocliy forward. The seven foul Neutrals 34. Sigma Ch1 17. Lambda ~tnt<'d in the !:tst Cc.n<'Ol d!Pn~b. In shot.>, and two fields by Gain J,ept Chi Alpha 15, Theta De!ta Chi g. cunjunt·tion with thP Pnter ta.inm<'nt the home team in the IUnning. Phi Gamma Delta :33, Alpha Delta committee, he su?gested that the District I3E CONVINCED-CALL As in the two former game,;, the Phi U!. Theta Nn Bp,;ilon 20. Phl . lu ng-uag-e clubs grve n bul'l<•squr as Gamet quintet retmned to the tloo. De!ta Thc>tu 17. Delta Chi :!2, Kappa: part of the Chustn;as pa1ty PI D- in the second half flasllmg a strong Nu :20 tO\'Prtimel. 1 :_:1·nm . .G. A. WELCOME & SON Phone 4-8#4 1171 Union St. offerusive game which the live truru Satmday, Jnnuary 6 1:30, Phi :===============, Hoboken could not break up. The Sigma Kappa vs. Neutr·als. !:!:30, passing wa>i sure.r and proved effec- Delta UpsHon 1'~. Kappa Nu 3:30. tive. Tightening the defense., the Sigma Chi v:o. Theta Delta Chi. 4:30. Union team forced the visito.-:; to Phi Delta Theta \s. Delta Pi Nu. re,;ort to long shots, which unfor- 0 _ tunately for the tatters, wet e not droppmg through the rims. Guards Hold Costanza Joe Costanza, the Engineers' high scorer. failed to shake up the guard- ing of Jack Moffett -and Ralph Sem- erad, and had to content him,;elf with two field baskets and two ·fouls for a total of six points. Disch, hi£ running mate, was. high with four fields. Milano, the Garnet pivotman. led the home team with twelve points. The Union five will 1eaume com·t activities after the Chrit<tmas recess on January 6. when Wesleyan will be played at Middletown, Conne<.:ti- cut. Williams will be the next op- pone;nt, at \lVilliamstown on Jan- uary 10. On the following day the Garnet will eneountet· the VPrmon.t quintet here. The summary follows: 'C'NION <33> FG FP Pts McDowell, rf .......... 1 3 5 Official U. C. Photographers Portrait and Commercial Photographing THE \\'HITE STUDIO 215 State Street U. C. Representative T. WHIPPLE, Chi Psi CHA.RLES' J<'ornwrly ED'S The Official Union Colh·ge Barh<'r for the past 24 years. A\k any upper classmen, they know. 11 operators. Sl'henectacly's great- est barber. COR. STATE AND BROADWAY TRACI\. NOTICE Tmclt pr·aetice for the game:> to be held later this winter with the Me; cuzy A. C. at tha State Armo-ry at Albany will start Monday, Janu- ary 8. 1 SEALS More Week to Ch1·istmos SllOI' E\~LY-:.:.\IL EARLY ONLY THE BEST IS GOOD ENOUGH BRAN DH 0 RST PHARMACY non the Corner\ Union Street and Gillespie Edward H. Brandhorst, Leland E. Brandhorst, Reg. Phar. Reg. Phar. i::mm::::::::::::::m::::m:::::::m::m::::::::::mmm::::::m::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::m:::::::::::::::::::m::m:::::: Home of !.!.! .. i!i FRIEN~;: FIVE !I! m FORTUNE sHoEs 111 Ill LJ~~~rw~?~-rE~~~f iii fif::m:n:::;::::::;:m:::mm:::::l:mm:::m:m:::m:::::::::::::m:::m::m::m:i::::m:mm::::::::::m::m:mm:m::::~ll DEWITT'S LUNCH Opposite New City Hall 118 Jay Street Bellinger Paint Co. .ARTHUR TRIGG, Prop. Paints, Oils, Varnishes, Glass Brushes and Wall Paper 126 BROADWAY The HAWTHORNE CLUB SANDWICHES and COLD DRINKS 226 Lafayette Stl·eet Spmd your Holidays and your money- wisely and well dt the BILTMORE Smart New Yot-kers will be doing just that, and you too can afford the best New York has to offer, and at the same time introduce an economy measure into your pleasure! LE CASINO BLEU. New York's sophisticated bright night spot, where DON BESTOR a·nd his Orchestra furnish smart rhythm for your dancing. Here you may dine, and wine, and dance. For instance-you and the girl friend may enjoy dinner or supper. dancing and several cocktails and the check will not top five dollars! That's because there's no cover charge, at any time. And hf'\rc thi!'; New Year's Eve will be the greatest ever. Ten dollar~ pPr per~on carrie~ you through supper, entertain- ment, noise-makers and all the trimmings. You can't beat it. THE MADISON ROOM. New York's grandest room, where you may dine in a truly continental manner. A superb cui- sine is blended with fine wines, al}d the most famous bar in all New York. \UNDER THE CLOCK\. That's where to meet Her. Smart people have been doing it for years; it's convenient, too, because it's right at Grund Central Station. YOUR ROOM-Last but not least important is your room, where every comfort, convenience and service is yours, as only the BILTMORE can render it. Rooms from $5. (Suites bom$15.) THE BILTMORE Madison Avenue af 43rd Slreel BOWMAN-BILTMORE HOTELS CORPORATION • Davicl B. Mulligan, President On Sale Dec. 14l:h i:oJan.ls4:--Rei:urn Limit Jan. 15th Round-Trip Bargains SYRACUSE ........... $ 4.90 6.60 3.00 J UST in time for Christmas and all year-end travel-Greyhound cuts round-trip fal'es to a new low. ; NEW YORK ......... . ONEO;\\;TA ........... . BINGHAMT0.:-.1 BOSTON ............. . CHICAGO ............ , CLEVELAND ........ . WASHI!\TGTON ...... , !:!3.25 15.75 14.85 23.25 19.00 Reductions good on all Greyhomi.d schedules in modern, comfortable coaches heated by Tropic-Aire. You'll find it's First Class Travel at bargain rates. CINCIN0!ATI ........ . DETROIT ............ . \R EastPJ'Il Gr·eyhound Tf-t•minal WEDGEWAY BUILDING to get your baggage home QUICKLY and ECONOMICALLY You probably have 101 things to do and think about before leaving the university fat home. One of the items you can strike off the list is your baggage. Send it Rail- way Express whatever it may be -trunks, bags or personal be- longings. Wherever you may live, if it is within regular vehicle limits, we will call for your trunks and bags and whisk them away on fast passenger trains through to des- tination. And after the holidays, bring them back this simple, easy and economical way, for Railway Express will pick 'em up and make direct delivery to your fra- ternity house or other residence. Raihvay Express has served your Alma Mate-r for many years It provides speedy, I'eliable ser- vice at rates, well ••• you'll think there is a Santa Claus after:- all. The local Railway Express representative will be glad to sup- ply you with necessary labels and will give you a receipt for yom: shipment that includes liability up to $50. MerelY' telephone the nearest agent. SERVING THE NATION FOR 94 YEARS E ~ ss ACENCY, Inc. NATION. WIDE SERVICE

'I , I '' il,:l : f' ';'I ,·,\ \I .:·: Four More Greek Letter IVlen Than Neutrals One Hundred Fit ty .Freshmen !.'iedge Fraternities; Juniors Have Highest Percentage THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 19, 1933 Federal Control of Stock .darkeis ~eems Inevitable marl·u·t purchases in 1927, ct.itics overvalued as to cause a crash of fut·thcr contend that Reserve offi- the magnitude of that which occur- cials continued to exhibit a state of red m 19~9. nonchalence until eady in 1929 The arguments ur the advocates -~ ---- and then it was too late. When of governmental control aTe indeed lContinued from Page 1) control was attempted, a bitte·r con- impressive. It is appa.rent from the :·ather that it should not have bPen trover:>y developed between the record that little in the way of ef- d, Federal Reserve Board and the fecti:ve regulation of speculation .Hore pwfoundly impresse · Federal Reserve Bank of New York can be expected. from the exchange Abolition of Pi Gamma Mu: CHESS CLUB LOSES Recommended in Report The chess team suffered its first defeat of the season Saturday eve- nil}g at the hands of Dr. J. B. Gar- ( Continued from Page 1) lick's men. The final score of the The objective of controlling spec- over the method of control to be authorities themselves and still less ulation by Fedeml lcgisbtion is ~h~ used, with the result that the co- from the Federal Reserve System. JUtg!Owth of a failure of the stock b k • 1 exchange authorities on the one operation so vi·tal to an ing con- The only alternative-governmenca naad and the Federal Reserve offi- trol was lacking. regula;tion of the stock exchange- By CARL MARSHALL, '37 ~ials on the othE:'r, to obtain :such It seems inevitable, therefore, des•erves a trial and may get it. Sixty-two and 111 ne-ten.th:; per control. The stock marl{et boom of that g~vernmental. control of the o----- 1 ES cent ul , 11 ., ;.;.,., 11 ..,~autLh ,.lcvltcll 1 ·--1[)':> ..<ll uut··tuwth of the \nE:'W \f'enritJE>~ market t!': t·hp only alter.n- STAMP CLUB ORGAN Z as significant us the American match was 4-1. Charles Hinckley, Association of Universities ap~ '36; who beat A. Parker, was the proved list, it is a fact which ca:n- only Union player to win his game. not be ignored in considering the Sam Simon, '34, was ·defeated by quality of the institutions sponsor- F. R. Stevens; W. Tawman, '35, by ing_ Pi Gamma. Mu. Dr. C. W. Hewlett; Richard Kelsey, have accepted Jrut~·rmty pledges, a :;.~~. phdosophy,\'which woU'ld have lative. If s:pecu~ation. performs ~ recent survey rcvcm::;. l'ms onng..; .md us believe t?at the business usef~1 functwn .111 our present ~ocl­ two tv~ . .d vf !t-L•' n:cy n:en to t'J I ~clr belong-ed m thE' fnrgotten ety. 1t behooves us to control 1t so per cent ol the entue undergtudu- JMt, waJ a final tribute to that that Its excesses shaH not.bnng d1re at•; buliy. >verworked phrase of classical consequences to the pubhc welfare. The bare facts would seem to '37, by Louis Guckemus and Rich- . seriously question the good stand- ard: Passenger, '37, by Daniel Shav- ,. ing of Pi Gamma Mu. In the opin- er. Dr. Garlick's team is considered ibn of your invcstigatot· thE> r·~pu- the strongest of the eight now en- , tation of Union College is not en- tered in the Schenectady Chess Under the . chairmanship of Pro- . hanced by association with this or- .League. Union's team ranks third. fessor E. S. C. Smith, a reorganiza-· ganization. 'lite <.adds uf 11:135 lta:> the gt eate,;t _·conomic,;--bis»eZ !uire. Exchange The advocates of goyernmental con- propu1 twn of men with bv.l per Jfficials wet·e generally unawa·re of trol _asser~ that ne~ther excess!ve cent hu.vmg flutermt;)' ali liJatlons, _h~ .• eriousn~\\ of th·e boom until mampulatlve opetatlons a» carrted Wll!Je the 1 1 e:shmen Jcacl numcucal- ate in 1928, and the Fedet·al l{e- on by the s:peculattve experts J?-Or l·y wtth the greatest number o1 men ;erve authoritie;;, who have been the unrestra·med mass speculatwn a~:,ucmtcLl w 1 tlt 01 ..:d<~tcttct uater· 1 !anwu by n.1any for ~etting tire ,.n of the pPople ~J:ould. be allov._oed. for nttteti. The bOphumure,; a1 e the t927 to the speculative desires VIOlent fiuctuf~:tiDns In .security val- next stronge:;t m 1wte1 nity U:!Iilta· which are inherent in the American ue:; are a senous detnment to the uon.::; wnh u1 vcr c.:at ul tl>clr cia\~ people, mad~ only haJf-iH·aJ ted at- 'mooth functioning of business. tion of the Philatelic Club was un- H is his recommend.<ttion, there- .· dertaken at its first meeting in over ~ore, that the Division of Social two years on Wednesday evening. Studie.o adopt the following resolu- · Fifteen members were .present and tions and that a copy of them be during the course of the evening s<:>nt to Dr. Ellery. THE ACME HOUSE LINEN SUPPLY CO., Inc. bewngmg to house\; the ,;enwrs tempts in 1928 and 1929 to check the The opponents of governmental trail wru 1 tiU.5 per cent. tll~fa.t.,cl mania to \get-rieh-quick.\ r·cgula:tion have attempted from The following table ,\ww::; the Control by Stock Exchangt• time to time to show th~t Federal number ot fraternity men and the , · . , t f . regulatiOn would be detnmental to Can '!'e _expect Impr~v~mer~. 1 om the public welfare because it would, petcentage lor each cla:;s: the. exch_ang_; autho11~1e~ UL the as Richard Whitney says, \make Cla,;s Total B'ta'ny Pet. prc,ent ltme. On!:, tecently_ the prices on the Exchange a false re- Enrollment men New Yo~·k Stoc_lr ExchP~gc stiffen- fiection of the state of business.\ 1934 1b0 10\:l 60.5 ed ma:g1? req.~tremen~~- ~n ° 1 :de. 1 · t~ Coming from the head of the New 1935 180 117 65.1 make It tmposslble fm ><ho<.>strmg York Stock Exchange, this argu- 1936 211 135 64.0 trade1·s to ol:'erate. P! 0 .~u~gated ment i» to be r&;pected. However, 1937 238 l!)(J 62.9 rule\ to re:>tram the soltcJ,ahon of it is well to bear in mind that a two committees were elected: the executive committee and the· pro- Two RP.solutions gram committee. The next meeting RESOLVED, That the Division will be held on January 31. It is, of Social Studies recommend to· · hoped that there wiU be a larger the Acting President of Union Col- turnout of undergraduates. lege that the Union Chapter of Pi Gamma Mu be discontinued begin- ning September. 1934. DEAN'S LIST CORRECTION RESOLV·ED, That the Division of Social Studies welcome the or- · ga·niza tion of a local social studies club, provided the :nitiative comes from interested students. Rents Linen for all Occasions (You pay for Laundry Work only) 1030 BARRET ST. Phone 4 6 9310 Delta Up,;ilon lead:; the campus buEiness on behalf of brolrerage crash on the stock market is in membership with twenty-nine ac- houses, and demanded that com- caused fundamentally by the rise t 1 ves ami ten pledge~. followed JJ'et~ information was henceforth to of :;toc'k prices to a pbint not w;_r- clu~ely by Phi Delta Tht•ta with he. g1vcn the> Excha11:gc 0 ~ t~e oper- ranted by prospective corporate twenty-two actives ami lifteen ttl on of poolo, syndicate\ Jomt H~- eat nings, J.nd further, that the pledge:>, and Delta Phi with t Wl'nty- ~ount~. an.d opt1on a.gre_emenb. crash in 1929 was perhaps the most live active~ and ten pledgl'::;. All rhe>e changes have be~n pomted to terl'ific we have ever experienced. other house:; ha\'e le:;~ than !hilly. with eon~lc!erable pnde by Ex- Yet, if M.r·. Whitney is correct, stock Michael J. Fiore, '36, candidate for the degree of Bachelor of Science in Civi·l Engineering, at- tained a first grade average for the past marking period, not a second· grade as was published in Friday's issue of The Concordiensis. David B. Cadwall>a.der, candidate for the degree of Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering, attained a second grade average for the past marking period. THE GAZETTE PRESS Of the fratc1 niti(',; founded at ch~ngt• offJCmls, w?,o would .~?-VJ us prices in 1929 are to be regarded as Union, Delta Phi lead,; m total belJPve that the new era had reflectors of the \state of business.\ member:;hip with thirty-live, whilf' Hally dawned. ~n the stock _ex- It i,; difficult to conceive of a ,;itu- l';;i Cpsilon ctnd Chi P\'i Iank \ec- ch .. mge. Yd 1t w no £'xaggeratwn ation where effective regulation ond among this ,;roUJJ with twPnty- to ::ny thfl·t th£' New .Yor_l, Stock would allow shares to be so grossly I :six each. Exchange docs not mshtute re- ---o---~ Y CABI1\IET !llEE'I'S Chief of Police W. H. l'un~tun of Schenectady :;polH' at thu meet- ing of the l'nion CollPge ChrJ,tmn Association held \\'Pdn<·,day \ftPr- noon in Silliman Hall, un the ,.oci- ology work that the Y-CnbinPt 15 doing. It i:; the hope of the aut hnr- ities in SchenPctady to develop a system of \big bt·uthPI\ wo1k fen boys who get into difficultie,-. arms unle;;s governmental regula- _:on is a serious threat. Only when he government i>' n.roused and reg- tlation is imminent can we expect .mch from the stock exchange· au· .horitie:;. The contention. that Reserve ad· uini;otrntion wa,; poor in the specu- ative boom by the excessive open COLLEGE GIRILL Sandwiches and Beverages :::::::::m::::::::::::m:;mm:::m::::m:::m;:m:mm::m:: lilT he Acme Barberlll I Service ~~pA SmUe I m PHONE 4-4525 m UNION'S OLD STANDBY Our Work and Prices Are Competitive GARNET TAILOR PRINTERS HENRY•s BARBER SHOP BARBERING and MANICURING 4 N. Y. C. Arcade ROSENDALE FLOWER S H O·P SC'henecmady's Telegrap;hlc FloriSJt Flowers of Quality ST. REGIS PHARMACY Charles R. Carey, Prop. A TRIAL MAKES A CUSTOMER Cor. Eastern Ave.-Jackson Pl. !l! 509 UNION STREET Ill ~==~ iii ~ ::::::::m::m:mmmm::::::::::::::m::m:::m:::::::::m::: 305 Liberty St. Tel. 4-0122 124 Jay Street Phone 4-0540 Opp. City Hall 600 Union Street PHONE 4-1123 MISs froy, Miss l at:skills ~!iss R1chmood 1\ltss \yra.cus< 200Bea~~!:!ess100 M BW:PIHS e:·•ad u s 1 c ' alifmnta , h ~ TR R S llegJate> NOTICE THE FINER FLAVOR Phone 4-3121 GENERAL ICE CREAM CORPORATION uch has been printed ahout tobacco ~~cool'' ~!!burns slowly~' ~'~ doesn'tsmoke hot\ ~~don't bite\ And all of these things can be said about Granger-the tobacco that's made to smoke in a pipee Granger is made of White Burley Tobacco-it's made by Wellman's Method, the tight process- it's packed right. Folks seem to like it -just try it. a sensible package 10 cents ran erRou hCut -the tobacco that's MADE FOR PIPES r,;: l''ll. I f(,r,rn & Mvm' TollhCCO Co. • s s of Cr St Cl p. Tl ar F: w: gr hE til w. E di E es IE az cc hl b~ tt w w ar sc ar h! ii( gi So ca ar Pl lJ }' D l A n• ti• t:y a1 d• m H c I lo. j VI i< fi VI fi j• 1\o h

