~ ! I I !• I ~ \l H (, l .\., Collection Made·This Morning for Ed Fitz Netted $35.03 Vol. LVH Dramatic Organization Will Present Three Plays ; Try- outs to Be Tomorrow Night CARROLL DIRECTS PLAYS Fall Production to Include Mystery and Morality Plays Written 111 15th Century The Mountebanks Theater will open i1:s 1933-34 se·ason, its 2.2nd on the campus, tomorrow night at 7:3C when official tr:youts will take place in the theater far the three plays that will be produced· t·his fall F.reshmen as well as u·pperclassmen wiii be eHgible far the· plays which will be presented on November 11, and on December HI and 11. College Day, when alumni return to the campus, will, as usual, in- clude a play by The Moutebanks and ·a group of songs by The Glee Club, For this event the Mounte- banks will present Maurice Maeter- linck's one-ad play, \The Intruder\ the theme of which deals with the mysterious coming orf death. 'To Give Mmality Play For the regular Fall pr<J·duction The Mountebanks Theater has un- der taken a very ambitious· venture in produ·cing the famous morality play, \Everyman\, and the old' mys- ter:y, \The Se<::ond Shepherd's Play,\ both written and produced in the 15th Century, The plays will be par· ticularly appropriate for the Christ· mas holidays which come soon af· tet their production on the Mounte- banks' stage, . Mr. Edward L. Ca.rroll, instruc- tor in English, will ag.ain direct the play of the Mountebanl~s. In an- nouncing the time for tryouts to- morrow night, Mr. Carrol gave a brief des·cription of the characters needed for the plays. He empha· sized the need of men to take fe- male roles as well as the fact that all fresh·men wit·h previous exper- ience dr not, and upperclassmen who have been in plays, should at- tend the meeting' tomorrow night Those interested in backstage work, or in the business side o.f the or- l'anlret!Cl'n should also· report at this time. Seven Characters in \'The Intruder\ There are seven characters in \The Intruder\ the nervous old grandfat.her; the anxious, restless father, about 35; the dominating, but easily excited uncle, about 4C; three daughters, young; and the frightened old woman servant. There are twenty char•acters In \Everyman\ .. As most people re- membei·; De·:Hh tells Everyman that his time has <Jome. Eve·ryman at- tempts to persuade his friends to accompany him on the journey to the gra.ve. All fail him save Good Deeds who, until Everyman has <Jonfessed and scourged· himseld', is too weak to follow him. , . . Everyman is a character about 5C years old, a strong active ·part, of many moods from self confidence to agoni:zing fear; Death, the typical pcrw.ni~cation; Goq, (voice only); FcllowE!;lip, tvpe of boatlicl{ing false friend; Goods, symbolic character of Mammon: Kinsmen a.nd Cousin, fla Hering relatives; Good Deeds, (female) a•ge indefinite, a sincere person; Knowledge {female), age indefinite. compassionate but imper- wnal; Discretion, ()ld man, ciwum- spect; Five Wi'ls. shrewd, thin, mid- dle aged men; Beaut:y (female) at- tractive; Strength, bluff, mighty man; Confession, priest, calm, be- nignant. Story of Christ's Birth There are s.even important char- ac'ler.s in \Second Shepher·d's Play.\ An old man, a middle aged man, and a boy of 16 are the s·hepherds; Malt is a midd'le-·!l!ged, dever, un• scrupulous, wiry man; his wife, is a shrewish, bard worked, middle aged woman; Maria, the Virgin, is a tableau part with only one speech; and the Angel, one speech part. • • Distin,guished: t StS Men W.Hl Attend Psi Upsilon Centennial Celebration UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1933 No.4 Johnson, Acheson, Oppen-. heim, Ellithorn Ask Change !Respect for Late Groesbeck Goventor~ Green and Cross At'e Distiuguished Guests MODIFICATION FAVORED Shown as Students Remain Standing for Bd.ef Pause 1500 EXPECTED Fraternity Celebrating Hun- dredth Anniversary Will Present Union Marble Seat Dupre~ Renowned Organist Was Child Prodigy At 12; Appointed To Rouen Widespr-ead interest has ·been <Jreated by the announcement of the coming organ recital by Marcel Dupre, the famous org-anist from Paris, which >takes. place on ~aturdlay night, at the Memorial Chapel under the auspi.ces of the Glee Club. No organist of this generation,---------------- so it is said, has won so many bon- 1 0 ors as Dupre. At the age of 12 he Progress Essential was appointed organist at ihe . . Church oJ St. Vincent at Rauen, T R li • Lif his native c~ty. ;At nineteen ~;e won · 0 e giOUS e the first pnze m counterpomt; at twenty-th1•ee, the first prize in or- gan, while pupil of Guilmant, Wid- or and Vierne. At twenty-eight he won the highest prize offered by the French government, the covet- ed Grand Prix De Rome, with a cantata for mixed voices and or- chestra, entitled \Psyche.\ At thir- ty he became organist at Notre Dame Cathedral, the most desir- able post in Europe. Plays Baeh From Memory At thirty-four he played the com- plete organ works of Bach perfect- ly and from memory and ten re- citals at the Paris Conservatory. This is prob!bbly the greatest feat accomplished by a virtuoso since the King of Instruments was first played. Hls American debut in the New York Wanamaker Auditorium crea.ted a furor. Following this, he played twelve remarkable recitals in New York and Philadelphia before a,udiences approximating- fifty thousand per- sons. It is reported that his present tour breaks all records for organ recital bookings within such a lim- ited period of time. Guest of Dr. and Mrs. Tidmarsh Mr. and Mrs. Dupre will be the guests of Dr. and Mrs. Elmer A. Tidmarsh during the weekend. They will arrive here Saturday morning a;n.d leave for Toronto on Sunday morning. The Dupre's have also charming- ly consented to meet Union stu- dents and organists of this section following the concert Saturday night, Mrs. Dupre, upon arriving here last week, wrote to Mr. Tid- marsh: \Of course, we shall be very pleased to meet your students and organists a.nd friends after the re- (Contlnued on Page 4) Charles Groesbeck, Member Of 1 unior Class, Is 1\:illed Bishop Oldham Speaks at the Chapel Service; Tells Stu- dents God Asks Progress \Too many people have a formal, legislative conception toward obey- ing the laws o.f re.Jigion without paying any· attention to the Law- giver,\ said the Right Reverend G. Ashton Oldham, Bishop of the AI· bany Episcopal Diocese, at the reg- ular Sunday chapel service. Bishop Oldham further stated that relig· ion is primarily and ultimately con- cerned with God. As an example he described the case of the Jews who set aside one day for the worship of the real God. The res.t of the year they spent try- ing to live up to their ambition of obeying all the laws of the Jewish religion. Progress Significant \Don't think that because we deal with religious things that we are religious. Religion is not obedience to a given l·aw, not to be good, nor is religion the act ad' d<Jin-g good. These factors play a big part in re- ligion but they are only the fruits Am l pr ogres sing? Am I becoming bette!'? Tliis is tlie kind of question that Gad wants to hear. God doesn't ask the impossible but he does ask us to progress,\ Bishop Oldham said. Church Service Contact With God He then ·gave several instances of men becoming good in the eyes of God. David was a: murderer and an adulterer, yet he wrote some of the most be·autiful verses in the Bible. Jesus' diciples were a motly crew, picked from all quarters of the country, yet He changed them to loving devoters with the exception of one who betrayed Christ when he needed him most. The s.peaker closed the address by telling the congregation that every church service s.hould be and is another contact with the living God. \More people would be a lot happier if they tried communicat- ing with the real God inste<ad of trying to live up to all the laws that have been expounded 'by differ- ent people upon the matters of re- Ji,gion, he concluded. ---•o---- J:t'rosh Rules Attacked by All Men Consulted by Repol'ter; Tradition Seems Shop-worn For ·the third successtve time, the Student Bod.y voted to cancel the annual Sophomore Soiree, automat- Ically addmg Friday and Saturday of the Thanksgiving week-end to the customazy sing.Je day of recess. One hour at the telephone by a fhe motion to drop the Fa:!! social Concordiensis reporter last night event, made by Arthur Bartlett, '35, resulted in the acquiring <>f a pin- was can ied with as much en thus- ions of various members of the stu- Jasm as in the two previous years, dent body on freshman rules. Out indicating that the Students. strong- of all those consulted on the mat- ty prefe1 H~e extra holidays to the ter, not a single one favored the expense of running a large dance. h 'l'he atmosphere a.f the me·eting retention of the rules as t ey now was considerably sadi:lened when exist. The majority of opinion the entire st·udent body rose and seems to favor a reduction in the .otood silently for a few moments length of the period over which as a mark of res,pect to the late they are to govern the actions of ...:harles M. Groesbeck, '35, who was the yearlings on the campus. almost instantly killed in an auto Here i.o what some of the more accident Sunday night. influential members of the student Albert Stevenson, '36, Psi Upsilon, body think: was 8ippointed .secretary of the stu- Harold Ellithorn, '34, member of dent bad:y by the President, Daniel varsity track team and Psi Upsilon Flinn. Stevenson, who comes from fraternity: \Freshmen rules are not Brooklyn, plays end on the varsity necessary for the entire year.\ fo<JtbaH team and is a baseball play- Edward Hutton, '34, captain o~ er of some promise, varsity hockey and member· of William Waldr<Jn, II, reported Delta Phi fraternity: \I do not that Professor J. Harold Wilner think they are all worth t·etaining.\ had reacted favorably to the senti- Thomas Acheson, '34, Student ment expressed by the Student Councilma:n and member of Alpha Body, regarding hockey, reinstating Delta Phi fraternity: \I believe the sport in less than 24 hours. At freshmen should wear caps for a the present time negotiations are while but the smoking and \keep bein.g carried on to secure a volun- off the grass\ rules are rather non- teer coach. Dr. Leonard B. Clark sensical.\ of the Biology Department, who has Albert Stevenson, '36, secretary played much h<Jckey in Canada, has of the- student body and member offered hi~ services to tbe te,am. of the Psi Upsilon fraternity: \I After the usual warnings to the believe they should be enforced freshmen, the meeting was closed. rigidly but the period of their ex- istence should be considerably shortened.\ Trainer Fitz Is 011 Road to Recovery, Clowe Announces The preliminary list of speakers and delegates that will take part in the three day celebration of the centennial anniversary of the Psi Upsilon fraternity at Union on November 22, 23, and 24, contains names prominent in the national spotlight. R. Bourke Corcoran, Chicago, '15, the national secretary of Psi Upsi- lon which was founded -at Union in 1833, announced today that Gov- ernor Theodore Francis Green, Brown. '87, of Rhode Island, will be one of the speakers at th,~ Founder's Day ba:nquet which wiJl conclude the three day celebration. Governor Wilbur L. Cross, Yale, '85, of Connecticut, is another spealter on the list. William Morgan Kings- ley, N. Y. U., '83, president of th.e United States Trust Company qf New York, will be the toastmaster at the banquet. He is treasurer of New York University. George H, Moses to Attend Joseph B. Eastman, Amherst, ~04, recently appointed by Presidetit Franklin D. Roosevelt as Federal Coordinator of Railroads and fill many years a member of the Intel!- state Commerce Commission, is also among the notable \Psi U's,\ who will come here to celebrate thl! birth of their fraternity on the 'campus that is known as the \mother of fraternities,\ far it was at Union that the first college fra,- ternities were organized: Kappa hlpha in 1825, Sigma Phi and Delta Arthur Bartlett, '35, member of the college news bureau and the Phi Delta: Theta fraternity: \1 do not care one way or the other.\ Cal'l .Johnson, '34, manager of varsity football and member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity: \They are rather silly and outworn.\ Ed· F!tz is definitely on the road ·Phi in. 1827. to recovery, Dr. G. Marcelhis Clowe, · Others who will be present at thl! college pliysici•an, ·announced yes- convention are Ex-Senator Georg'e terday, and it is expected that he H. Moses, Dartmouth,. '90, of New will be on the field with the foot- Hampshire; Dr. Henry Noble Mac- ball team Saturday. Cracken, N. Y. U., '00, president of Robert Oppenheim, '34, Terrace Counoilma:n and membPr of the Delta Upsilon fraternity: \I think all freshman rules should be abol- ished except learning the Alma Mater and wea.ring the frosh caps, the latter of which gives the mem- bers of the freshman class their only means of recognizing their classmates.\ The trainer for all of Union Vassar College; Professor George sports was taken to the EUis. ~os- H. Nettleton, Yale, '96, head of tha pital last week, where physiCians department of English at Yale'; tried to diagnose his case. As a re- d f F d 1 J d Ed · suit of a minor operation Saturday an ormer e era u ge WlJil and a blood transfusion from Rich- ~·o~ac'?ti. N. Y. U., '97, of Ne>y ard· Davis, '85, Fitz showed much improvement and his condition is Plan Literary Exercises now free from worry. Hubert C. Mandeville, Union, '88, ------------------------------ of Elmira, a trustee of Union Coj.· lege, will preside at the public liter', a:ry exercises which will take place in the Memorial Chapel oh Frida:i, November 24. Professor Nettleton will deHver the principal address after which a procession will form and move to the ca:mpus flagpol~ for the dedication of ,its base, a marble seat, as a memorial to the founders of the fraternity. Edwara L. Stevens, Cornell, '99, president at the nat.ional exec1,1tiY!! cop.ncil . o.t Psi Upsilon, and LeR<Jy J. Weed, Union, '02 and a trustee of Union College, will present the marble seat to Acting President Edward Ellery of Union College. Capitol District Is Rich Field for Hiking and Outing Enthumast By ROBERT C. ~ORTH A cold wind swept around the Withirt 3l few miles of each other north face of Marcy, highest peak are scores of mountains, each with in New York State. The thermom- a peculiar view o;f its own. The eter dropped to thirty degrees be- Conservation Department has clear- low zero. Deep drifts settled about ed and marked trails connecting the southern slopes and completely these peaks with automobile roads obliterated the narrow, winding and accessible villages. trail ieading up from Marcy Brook. Between indian Lake and Specu- A group of men on ·~!tis pushed Jatar lies Snowy Mountain, from their way over 3l shoulder of the which there is a panorama of the mountain and braced themselves Adirondacks, the Green Mountains, against the wind. A half an hour and the Valley of the St. Lawrence. later they stood on a rounded rock The trail leooing to the top leaves promontory, the peak of Marcy. the edge of the state roa,(l three Slipping back over the crest o~ miles south of the Sabael P. 0. bare rock, they gathered speed and Ski Runs at Gore Mountain glided downward in a. cloud of snow. By nightfall these men were One of the best ski runs in the unstra:pping their skis at Lake state is situated on Gore Moqli.tain Placid. At nine o'clock the next near North Creek. Lake Placid, morning they were attending where the Winter Olympics were classes in Bailey Hall. held in 1932, is a skiing center ·com- Within the last few years Union parabie to many Alpine and Scan- students have found a vast ex- dinavian resorts. panse of country suitable for week- The Fulton Chain provides a end ca:mping and winter sports. beautiful series of lakes for canoe Within a few hours' travel from trips, while the Sacandaga River Schenectady lie the Adirondack bas rapids to tax the skill of a.ny Mountains, The Catskills, and the steersman. Berkshires. Government lean-tos The Long Trail, laid out by var• have been built on well-marked ious outing enthusiasts of the Me- trails to facilitate out-of-door trips.; llawk Valley, passes within a few miles of Schenectady. This path, Mountains Accessible which will some day connect Penn- The 1,500 delegates of the 27 na- tional chapters, representing a total living membership of 12,000 will as- semble in the State Armory for the Founder's Day banquet, November 24, The sessions of the c,onvention on November 22 and 23 and other e~ercises will all take place on the campus. The complete program ·will be announced later. Besides Kappa Alpha, Sigma, Phi, Delta Phi and Psi Upsilon, Union College has \mothered\ Chi Psi in 1841, and Theta Delta Chi in ~847. CHEMISTRY STUDENTS' There will be a meeting of all B. S. in Chemistry students who are interested in the reorganization of the Chemistry Club in the Chern- , istry Building on Tuesday, 'Charles M. Grosbeck, '35, was almost instantly killed at 8 o'clock Sunday night when the automol>ile he was driving skidc ded on the Troy Road near Stop 22 ·and overturned, pinning him underneath. He was driving alon·e and there were no eye wit- nesses to the accident, the cause of which remains unknown. This is the 10ame spot where Hilton Fraser, '25, met 'his death two years ago. GRADUATE COUNCIL ELECTION From Heart Lake near La.ke .. slyvania with. Ca>nada, makes it Placid a trail suitable for skiing possible to walk across New York leads to Avalanche Lake, a narrow State without following highways body of water squeezed between or seeing cities. Daily Assembly Spealfers Wednesday- , Mr. Daniel F .. Imrie, '06, Un- ion College. · The s.tory is sim~le: three shep- herds complain of the <Jold, hard times, their w<>men, etc.; Malt: steals a sh·eep f.r.om them. ~en they come searching .foJ: it, Mak hides the sheep in his bed where his wife lies in pretended ehild-pain. The shepheards· gi,scover the fraud and punish Mak; an angel tells them of Christ's birth. They g'o 'to Bethle- hem and present simple gifts to M11ri·a~s child. Those unable to attend the try- outs should arrange with M1:. Car- roll for another appointment. Those seeking other than acting pa.rts in the production should consult with oJ;~e of the following: Julius J. Sit- n~y, '34, president; H. Tennyson. Baldwin, '34, stage manager; Will- iBJm Draper, '34, businEss a:nana·ger. Last s]lring, Gr<Jesbeck was chosen to lEad the Garnet golf team for 1934, He was' a member of the 1932-1933 hockey team and served as associate editor of the Concordiensis last year. \Chuck\, as his friends called him, was a member of the Sigma Phi fra- ternity', The Graduate Council will hold its election of officers at the regu- lar fall meeting in the Electrical Engineering Laboratory at 10:15 on .Novembel' 11th, according to Mr. D. R. Weeks, assistant secretary of the CounciL Nominations for ·candidates for alumni trustee will also be held at that time. This meeting will be held in connection with College Week-end, also Novem- ber 11th. sheer walls of rock many hundreds Within a few minutes drive from of feet high. This moul;ltain l!llke, Union College are the Helderberg once an arm of Lake Colden, was Mountains and John Boyd Thatch- cut off by a huge rock slide scarce- er State Park. The steep escarp- ly a generation ago, The two lakes ment is ·of particular geologic as today are more than a mile apart. well a:s scenic interest. Near Alta- On the other side of the Mac- mont several deep sink holes have Intyre Range from Avalanche Lake be-an worn into the limestone bed is Indian Pass, flanked by a steep rock by water action. Besides Howe cliff over a thousand feet in height .. and Knox Cavern, there are sev- Hanging S.pear Falls have cut a era! smaller, but nonetheless re- deep gorge near Lalte Colden. , (Continued on Page 4) Thursday- Acting President Edward El- lery, Berg Cup Award. Friday-· Dr. Elmer A .. Tidmarsh.

Two <llllUfll \A Ca1tsa f'el'sa Parolo Assai'' FoUNDED 1876 Affiliated With Pi Delta E:psilon The official newspaper of the students of Unien College. Published Tuesdays and Fridays throughout the college year, except during Christmas and spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schen,ectady, 4-0133. Address all business communieations to Arthur J. Katzberg, Kappa Nu House, Union College, Schenectady N. Y. All other communicatiorus to George R. Cory, Jr., Psi Upsilon House, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD George R. Cory, Jr ........... , .. Editor-in-Chief Artnur J. Katzberg ........ , .Business Manager C. William Huntley ........... Managing Editor Robert H. Smith .................. News Editor Arnold J. Friedman., ........ , ... Sports Editor Prince E. Oleson ................ Feature Editor C. Hathaway M. Berger JUNIOR BOARD D. Moulton J. Woolman R. Diamond IN MEMORIAM The loss of CHARLES M. GROES- BECK is .a sev.ere one to the student body of Union Colleg-e. Not only will his loss be felt by his immediate friends, but his spirit will be missing from the golf and hockey teams on which he served last year. As a re- ward for his fine services on the links this spring his teammates elected him captain of the 1934 golf squad. Both on the ice and on the golf course \CHUCK\ was an excellent exa-mple of the 'never say die' spirit. Always a proponent of team play, \CHUCK\ never tried to grab the spotlight in any undertaking he as- sumed. As a member of the staff of The Concordiensis he showed his will- ingness nnd patience to learn in spite of his handicap of lack of experience. A man who can control his tem- per under any circumstances is al- ways popular in any envimnment; \CHUCK\ could be included in this category as many students will testify. Seldom is the loss of a single man universally felt, but in this com- munity of ours comprising the cam- pus of Union College, the one smil- ing countenance of CHARLES Mc- LAUGHLIN GROESBECK leaves an emptiness that will be noticed for some time to come. THOSE SCRAPS In the Concordi.ensis for September 22, an editorial appeared urging the abolishment of the utterly foolish interclass scraps which are held ahnual1y, the only reason for their continuance being \for tradition's sake.\ Since the appearance of the above-mentioned editorial there has been no action by the Student Council on the matter. Can't that governing body give an answer, o1· at least an alibi for the lack of consideration? We feel that the modern trend away from hazing in American Bolleges and universities is a good one; that the movement is popular here is exemplified by the number of under- classmen who have been participating in the fights, a number which has been steadily de- creasing for sever!ll years. That the ~craps are nonsensical is a known fact; that they are prehistoric is becoming evident; that THE CONCOR])IENSES, TIUESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1933 no scraps at all. Three years, however, is I 111; l'l II ;r,:u~~i~o;o~o~~~:,:~~t..::~:~n~~anizati?nl F A R .R A G 0 J. EASY ON 1HE EYES • Both in 1931 and in 1932, stu.d<mts we1·e lb.;==================:;====--; d f h d . l . We popped on Webster's defini- dictiona·ry for; Ba.b.u, you illitev-· 000 We are assured that it was injure as a r~sult 0· t ese me ·leva ant1cs. tion of the verb \to croon\: To ates.) an unotried Union ·eleven which What teason is ther€ for the continuance of make a continuous hollow moan, as Required Reading.: Article in the opened the ·season on Satmday, but cattle do when. in padn. May Ameriqan Spectator called w~s it an untired one? these ha;wrdous melees~ Sl,l:X\ely they do not A couple of mystifying pr.onun- \Woman's New Freedom.\ It takes 000 Ring Lardner ~ dead: but instill the \Spirit of Old Union' upon the elations: Dean Inge, the gloomy' the career girl for a long hard his books will live· to confound' .the- Dean, in a personal letter: \I rhyme ride; if you know a budding fe- · professors of HteTature for many freshmen. The peagreens are subdued in with thing or sting, not with male doctor, lawyer, merchant, et .years to come. Un·happily the pres- thel .1. acti.OllS ·for el· '2~1lt fll·ll mont·h·s \·ll· t·he twinge or cringe.\ The Columbia a!., be thoughtful and .send her a ent college generation knows only ~ \' economist Berle rhymes with burly. copy. his worst work, written while he h t h d t f James Truslow Adams is not of· · k t d th T h' b Idl campus; w y mus t ey un ergo a se 0 the fami'ly that boasts John and =~:~~ .. H~~ 0 to Wri1:e l?ort 1 Sto~iesr. g-rueHing- combats at the very outset of that FAMOUS FICTION · John Quincy Adams. if you want an unifa.r.gettabl~ peep (Swiped from Schenectady Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch, ·famous into his \Ame·rican heH' oct: bores period of suppression? Motordom) English· man-ef-letters, wrote a ll!nd goodd'ellows. \This is the real stuff-imported· ... book back in m16 On the Art . of: , 000 While we are in the recom- I know the guy that brought it W·riting. Professor Herrick recom- d' . k ft ff Ovel ·.\ mends it to his Camp classes. Most .men mg vem, taJ e an a ·ern{)on {) t · th at the Coll~ge Library and turn the. C ANGE \It ain't the money I care for- entertaining of the chap ers ls e · page·s of that ·remarkable picture- TIME FOR .A. H . · · it's the principle of the thing.\ ·one On Jargen. There are two main hook kflow.n :as \The First .World \Oh I know how to handle it; I vices of J'argon, says Sir Arthur; it War.\ If enough people did so, 'While we do not feel that the opinions ex- can take it or leave it a~one.\ .deals in circumlocution rather than with eyes open, it mi.ght prevent a \I cSJn not live without you.\ . ·Jiiimple direct language, and it; second·? pressed elsewhere ill this paper concerning \Pleased to meetcha.\ - ehooses \vague wooly abstract J t•eshman rules. are the feelini!'S of the Stu- \Painless Dentistry.\ nouns rather than concrete ones.\ 000 Almos't every student who - \I'd be the last one to say any- $ir Arth;ur turns facetious at tl;lis · ~as taken fiction-writing at all s:er- ttent Body, neverthe]e&-s, the words that have thing against her, but ... \ point and pens the Jargon version wusly has drea.med of producmg \I'm off that stuff from now on .. of Hamlet's Soliloquy; it's not :too the Great Am.encan. College Novel, come OUt Of the moutns Of those WhO Were It's no good. Never again-that's bad: , ~ased Upon h1s own coHege exper- lt d d . · 11 t t' me\ · . \To be, or the contrary? Whether . .1ences. If you want to see a II!ar- consu e 0 give an exce en cross-sec IOn \The police have the situation, the former or the latted he prefer-. velously successful tr.y a.~ t,f·e JOb, of the way students feel: concerning this mat~ well in hand. Important arrests :;tble would seem to adr:pit of some get hold of George ~eiler s Not to may be expected at any moment.': .9-ifference of opinion; the ru1swer IDat, Not for Love. ter. \I'm as fit as a fiddle--just as; m the_ present case bel~g of an af- 000 Weller was editorial chair- The fact that not ·a sino-le underg-raduate good a man as I was twenty years. flrmatlye or of.~ negatV1e character man of fhe H<a:rvaTd Crimson a few o ~ ago I can't notice a bitta differ- accordmg as to whether one elects years ago, and has turned out an who was approached believe·S that the rules enc~.\ on th~ one hand to mentally: s?ff~r as·tonishing pan:orama of life in \We are prosperous and don't: ~he disfavour of fortune, albeit .m Harvard Square during the pre- should be left as they- .are speaks for itself know it. Prosperity is just around ~n extreme degree, o~ on the other, HarkneeiS ·period. I-f one Union stu- stup id traditions are being worn down every- the corner. Anyhow, it's just a state hand .. to boldly enVIsage adverse, dent in .a th{)usand were as observ- of mind\ · · eond1tlons in the prospect of event,., ant and as sensiti'lre as WeUex, where, and Union Colleg.e should follow th€ \Why· no, my derur, I can't re-. u_aHy bringing_-~hem 'to a <:onc;1u- what literature might not be WTit· memb.Clr a single thing about _the.:: ~non. The ~ond1ti~D; o-f_ sl_eep ~s s1m- 1 en right here un th€ campus! example already set h·y numerous other COl• Spanish-American War. I was JUSt liar to, 1f not mc:l!stmgmshable 000 T.he second book by Phil leges. a tiny girlie then.\ · from that of death: and with Strong of ·~state Fair\ fa:me, called \If I am elected Mayor, all the th.e addition o~ flnali~y th~'forll!-er \Stranger's Return,\ se·emed hardly After careful consideration ()f the ques- crooks will be driven out of our might be considered Identical with more than a long short story for fair city within thirty days. No t~e l~tter: so that in this r:onp.ec-. HoiiyW{)<Jd consumption. Neithe-r did tion, The Concordie11sis p1·oposes the follow- gambling no vice of any kind. The' tron 1t might be argued· w1th re- ''The Fault of the Ang·els\ by Paul • 1 crooks n{ust go!\ · ~ard to sleep that, could th~ addi- Horgan, with its e2Cposure oif mg C 1anges : \This is our golden wedding an- twn be effected, a termmation Rochester and the !·ate eGorge IDaet- 1. That freshmen be required to wear niversary-married just fifty years. W()Uld ~e _:p~t to th~ endura~ce of man, impr·ess us as .being of prize ago today-and in all that time, my a mulbpllc~ty of 1nconvemences, cali'ber. caps up to th.e Thanksgiving recess, and NO little wife has never spoken one not to mention a number of down- 000 A touted book which does LONGER cross word to me!\ right evils incidental to our fallen live up to e!Xpectations is \Men of ~ . The Final Triumph of Journalese: ~umanit:y, and thus a consu:n~a- Good Will\ by Jules Remains. But 2. That freshmen .still be required to speak the Babu who reported his moth- bon achieved of a most grabfymg it tantalizes, since only two of the er's death: \Regret to inform you. natm·e.\ projected six or more volumes are up to upper classmen when meeting them 011 the hand that rocked the cradle Vive le Jargon!! . , 0 far available in English. has kicked the bucltet.\ (To the JASPER. T the campus. ooo The all-around faculty ath- 3 Th t f h b 11 d t k ~=============~· Ietes, or the fooulty all-around ath- . a res men e a owe o smo e I; ·· letes, are at it again with the ten\ ANYTHING ANYWIIERE. MUSIC I Week's s-es't Ed'at' or'•al p.is racqUS'tiS .and the equine oxfords .. One of the keener-wi1:t-ed! horse- 4. That either ft-eshmen be permitted to s:hoers has discoveroed that the rules lk 1 b tt t 'll EVERY by of the tournament simply say: wa on t 1e gi•ass, ora e er S 1 , \ - \Select your opponent fr<Jm the O~E stay off our la.wns. Rankine Hinman DEALING WITH THE IDGH· above list.\ so he is g·oing to play POWERED SALESMAN ~11 his ,games· with the same op- 5. That freshmen be required to learn 'l'h·e administration is to be <:o-m- pon~mt! h f h AI M t :Sunday afternoon Miss Helen ONE stanza and c m·11s o t e rna a er, Henshaw pleasEd a large audience mended for the· step taken to pro- 000 Looks to us as though sO\m~ alld ALL Stanzas ~nd choruses of \The in Memorial Chapel with a dis- teet the studen.ts from those un- of the participants in 1he fa<Julty G< tinctly feminine program that was scrupulous salesm~m who, in the tennis tournament would need a Dutchman's Son~r,'~ • 'The Terrace Song,\ as de!igMful!y played as it was well past, were accustomed' t<J invade the lot of horseshoes. Or is just an- ~ 1 t d t th d r d dormitories and fraternity houses, other racquet? and \Ole Union Beside the Mohawk Vale.\ t~:~t; ;..,hfc1 she•e dr~;, 1 ctrcJ'm ~r there to engage in a practice of un- IGNOTUS 6. That freshmen eontinue to remain numbers were permeated with a restrained· cash-grabbing. Undel' the firmness that precluded weak senti- new policy sale!lmen who :ply their seated until the other classes have left mentality. Her treatment of the trade throughout the <Jampus are Largo from the \New World\ Sym- required to carry a permit issued chapel. phony was particularly creditable by the University. 7. That freshmen continue to use the front in this re~Spect, for the s.econd move- The mere ·evidence of such an at- me:nt of Dvorak's most familiar titude on the part of the adminis- door of Bailey Hall. work is very susceptible of a weak tration does Mt, however, give corn.- h ld b ll interpretation ptete assurance of t-he effective Every freshman S . OU e compe ed to We enjoyed most the Debussy handling of the situation. In formu- wear a cap in order that he might be recog- numbers, delightful phantasms that la:ting and enforcing such a requir·e- raise one from the material world, ment the University may well con- nized by upper classmen, but it is ridiculous not to great el·evati<Jn of soul, ·but sider its part in the matter at an h t · t d' t d't' end. Upon the students themselves, to n1ake them W ·ear the head pl'.eces all yea·r to t a m erme Ia. e con 1 Ion d 1 h t th where one is in the clouds. of a an on Y upon t em, res s e re\ The idea of speaking up to upper classmen magic fairyland. Even in the sheer sponsibility for the actual success exuberance and g•aiety of the \Bal- of the plan. The fiee·cing of students is a good one, because it helps keep alive the let\ this quality of unreality per- will continue unless they them- . t selves ref!'ain from assuming a traditional Union spirit of friendliness. 818 ' s. passive role and actively enga.g·e in The Scherzo of the Fourth Sym- apprehending thos·e whQ are evad· There is no reason why a man cannot phony, played for the first time in ing the requirement. k h d h h h h h the Chapel, showed· us Widor in an SmO e W en an W ere e C 00S€S W en e extremely playful m{)od; its humor- Only b.y a unified effort on the . is old enou~rh to attend co.Jie~re. The smok- ous oanon and d'€lig·httul, short part of the students, fraternitie-s ~ ~ pedal notes added to the eff·ect. and UniveTsity authorities am these ing rule is probably more offensive than any Miss Henshaw played the greater parasites. upon the undedrgraduate cash supply be suppresse '· other reQ'Ulation. portion of her program from mem- ~ ory, an accomplishment more diffi- -The Colgate Maroon. It would be an excellent plan for all the cult on the organ than on any other ----a--- instrument. undergraduates to stay off the grass, as it \vould definitely improve the natural beauty The Second F1estival of Con tern· \Yaddo Festival\ of our campus. porary American Music at \Yaddo\ E f h · 11 d t 1 th highly justified iiself by showing very res man IS compe e o earn e bot.h how good anc! how poor mod- NOTES ON OUR CONTEMPORARIES entire Alma Mater_ As far as we know ern music can be. The finest work COLGATE ' played at the second concert, Wal- there has not been a single occasion in the ter Piston's Strin·g Quartet, was one A Course in Preparation for h h h h 1 h of the most absorbing pieces of Marriage past t ree years W en t € W 0 e song as chamber musi:c we have ever listen- At Colgate University, \The Col- been sung. On the other hand, there have e·d to; it was repeated at the close gate Maroon\ goes on record as of the conce•rt and was even more favoring the introduction of a been plenty of instances when several of our acceptable on secoi1d hearing. The ·course in preparation f()r marriage other songs, which are perhaps more popular stringent force of the opening into the curriculum of the Univer- movement and the loYely rhythm of sity. This course, if adopted, will than FITZHUGH LUDLOW'S masterpiece t 1 ~ee ·el~st~e~entprr:~~~si~:~rnlre ~~~ be conducted by the .sociology de· h b partment. ave een sung. gio, which the New World String F h ld b · d t d Quartet ·executed with amazing res men shou e reqmre o atten quality. The harmoni-es were weird, Student Body meetings, as it is obviously but ingrained themselves upon the listener slightly as do those of important that they become interested in Grieg. student affairs, but does it do any good to Piano Gymnastics hbot, yell and jeer at th.em? George Antheil on the other hand, playing his own compositions, gav·e To avoid congestion, the first year men an exhibition o.f piano gymnastics h ld t . t · t d t'l th that was utterly devoid O·f sub- S ou con mue o remain sea e un 1 e stance, unbeli-evably ineloquent, and upper classes have filed out of Daily Assem- so revolting that even the liberal \Yaddo\ audience gave him only bly, and it also would. he wise, for the same cursory •applause. He sho<Jk his reason' to have th .el-v. contl'nue to use the head, slammed keys with 'bhe fiat 1 ' of his hand, threw himself at his accustomed dom· for enb·ance into Bailey instrument as if to destroy it, flung the perspiration from his brow Hall upon the. key:board, and, with all RUTGERS New Uniforms New band uniforms for the Rut- gers band are to be purchased· witli money received from graduated classes and the college societies. Over $400 is now in the fund. POTSDAM NORMAL SCHOOL To Test Hearing In the physical examinations held for freshmen the use of a new scientific audiometer has been in- tJ:oduced to test the hearing keen- ness of the new fresh. liThis and Thatil His full name is John O'Brien but everybody calls him \John\. He tilled the soil in his native land and carried a gun in the guerrilla war- fare which the Irish rebels main- tained in their battle for freedom in 1921. About nine years ago he left Ireland to become assistant to Mike Brazile, head ground-keeper at the Forest Hills ten,nis courts . This tall, sandy-haired mail, his face burned red by many summer suns, knows his work thoroughly and will give pointers on the tech- nique of tennis court construction to anyone who will give him an at- tentive and interested ear. Although he has spent most of his time at Forest Hills, he found the opportunity to construct some of the better known eastern courts. The Westchester Country Club courts at Rye, New York, this year the scene of two major tourna- ments, one of them the Profession- al Nationals, is his handiwork. Up- on the conclusion of his work here 3:t Union College, he has bee11. cQIP- mandeered to construct a set of courts in West Virginia. He believes these courts are the equal of the famous \outside cour ts\ at Forest Hills, and as fine a set as any college can boast. He did, however, suggest one or two changes. A north-south direction would have given better playing light. He was most emphatic, how- ever, in recommending the remov- al of the tall trees which cut off a great deal of light from the courts and give the surface a twilight ap- pearance· as early as mid-afternoon. The ball changes color as many as ten times because of the shadows, before it reaches the receiver. 0 PRAYER MEET'ING There will be a prayer meeting at 7:45 Thursday evening in ropm 5, South Section South College. The League of Evangelical Students has extended an invitation to all stu- dents to attend. · ACKNOWLEDGMENT they are to be abolished remains in the hands Some of our mles are excellent, and these of the Student Council. should be retained, but others are nothing !·his effort, ex.pressed nothing more than neurotic excitation. Charles Loeffler's Rhapsody No. 1 for o-bo·e, viola, and .pian<J brought together an unusual but very s•atis- factory combination of instruments in a lovely number that wal'l hard.ly ·ultra-m<Jdern. Otto, Luening's S~n­ ata for vlolincello alone was a v1g· orous, rugged piece remarkable for Hs robust attack<!; it revealed the cello in a rather unusual role. COLUMBIA Beer Tasters Through an error The Con- cordiensis failed to mention that the article on the histoi'Y of Union College which a,ppeared in the preceding issue wa:s written for the current issue of The DiS,.. mond, nRtional mag~>zine of the Psi Upsilon Fraternity, In which are appearing articles written for the centennial celebration. A step in this direction was tal<en last spring with the removal of the paint fight. At that rate either ·one or two things will happen in three years: there will be three entirely new forms of scraps or there will be more than outworn tradition, and are only kept alive by those who think they are still in high schooL The time has come when these rules .should be radically altered to meet present conditions. About fifty Columbia students became amateur \beer-tasters\ when a call was recently issued by the·COl!ege restaurant. The students taste about thirty different brews and decide the ones they like best. The brews receiving the most votes will be sold in the college gri\i, \ .. . 1 .' ~ 1\ ' 1 tl I ' I I J, \,r 'I '[ I! I !. I I ' ! l \ • ' 1 p F 'I the fig] ed att dile ter· iro· ear C{)l 1 fin ley lor. gn tin un· Th er~ thi t•hE te:E lat pa: ter hE edi ~U! In qu SOI a1 10 Bu klE cal plE IXIIE Cr ( thE brE in! to UtE ed s·eJ an br• mi th: Se ml ya ce: kiE lef he w ye pl'l va m~ fo ya er•. lir. ofJ ca U1 sil wi of ba ga LI L1 L< c R< R' Rl Ql Ll Rl Fl U1 w af St u AI K· tu fT fo ()' hE h! Ill 'J il Il VI t 'li r g r

e D l 5 ·- Ol !, s n e s .. . 1 .' ~ 1\ ( I 'tl ; \ ' l . :.' :,1 .. ' \( Ll !. I I ' ! l \ • THE CONCORDIENSIB, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1933 Three Union's Spirited Last Quarter Attack Ties Wesleyan Penalties Stop Garnet Aerial Attack From Breaking 7-7 Tie With Cardinals .,._ Union Crosses Goal Twice in Crosses the Wesleyan Line Last Seconds But Ba:ll Is For Garnet's First Score Recalled to Scrimmage Line T-,vic·e on the •Ve'!lg-e of victory in the last 3{) S·econds of the game, a . fl:g.hting Ga.rnet eleven wa:s thwart- ed ·by two succ·e:;~sive pena1'tie,s in its attempt to defeat Wesleyan at Mid- dl1etown, Connecticut, Saturday af- ternoon a·Iid 'had to leave the grid- iron with the 7 to 7 tie which it had earr. e>c in the· final m1nwtes o·f the contest. Sport Slides by Arnold J. Friedman I am happy to say that after the sports department of this paper had come to the conclusion that Union would lose Saturd·ay, the Garnet went out and almost broug-ht home a victory. If it had not been for the excited pitch the teams, the off.icials and the spectators were in, Union Beta Theta Pi and Kappa Alpha Win Opening Games Kappa Sigma meets Sigma Phi and. Phi Sigma Kappa plays Phi Gamma Delta today on Ceuncil Field at 12:45 on the se·cond day of the touch football touzna,meut. · Yesterday Kappa Alpha defeate·d Delta Chi, 28 to 8, while Beta Theta Pi defea-ted Alpha Delta Phi, 6 to: 2. The winners of yesterday's games· will play next Monday. . The schedule for the rema·inder of the week is as follows: t:he Neutrals versus Chi Psi, and Alpha Mu Sig·- ma versus Delta Upsilon tomorrow; Sigma Chi versus Alpha Phi Delta, and Psi Upsilon versus Phi Sigma Delta Thursday. Phi Delta Theta versus Theta Nu Epsilon, and Delta Pi Nu versus Ka·ppa Nu Friday·. ----01--~ The HAWTHORNE CLUB SANDWICHES and COLD DRINKS 216 Lafayette Street Enjoy Yourself at During t h • fi:rst half W es- leyan was in Un· ion's territory a great deal of the time but was un·able to score. There were sev- eral rnisplayG in this po.rtion of t·he game, ·both teams fumbling· Jate1··als a n .d passes from c·en- ter. S em era d held a slight edl,l'e in a kick- ing duel. Early in 't·he third qua;rter, J o h i:l ~ 1 would have won. From the beginning of the game unti I the last quarter . : it lookEd like a Ca.z dinal wave, but the Cardinal soon gave way to the The fencing class will meet for the first time today at 3:30 in the gymnasium. RICHARDS Among Intimate Surroundings Gazn€t. Jiggs Rotunda pla.yed the hero role with the long run that put the team in a position to score. The·n came those last 30 se-conds when evetybody was in a daze. No one knew how many dO·WDS there were, but one thing is certain-the game was NOT finished. When Union was brought back for the offside penalty that prev·ent-ed the second score,· DEWITT'S LUNCH 1 the game was decl-ared ended by the timer. But on an offside penalty I the team should be given the down over again because of the penalty Opposite New City Hall 118 Jay Street BILLIARDS and BOWUNG I infliction, whether the game had ended or not. Look it up in the rule book. --------'4o-------l LOOKING AT FUTURE OPPONENTS 506 State Street son, the Cardinal quarterba.ck, ra:n a punt b~:~ck 37 yards to the vi::itors' 10 yard line. On t·he following play Bu~ton made six yards cff left tac· kle and Moyes, after three carried the· baH over. :Burton place kiclted for the ·extra making the score 7-C In favor Crimson eleven. ' Uni(JD Takes Offensive On: the. next kickoff Union took the offeneive. Weak side plays brought the Garnet to a threaten- ing position, but Wesleyan wss able to prevent a. S·cor·e. With five min- utes left to play, the visitors open· ed a successful a1:tack based 01n a series of deceptive running plays and laterals. Straight line :plunge~ brought the Union team well past midfie~d. Jiggs Rotunda dashed through Jeft tackle for 33 yards . Semerad on two tries· gained· six more, leaving the ball Qn the half- yard line. Dain scored through the center Q.f the line. Semerad place kicked for the extr·a pQint. With three minute·s of the game left to play, Union opened up the best passing attack seen on the WesJ.eyan field in the last four years. W·hHe Semerad called the plays and Daln did the passing to various receivers, the Union grid- m-en completed seven out of eleven forward passes f.or a total of 86 y>ards. A pa::s from Dain to Sem- emd carried the ball over t:he goal Une· but a!ter a lo.ng conference the officials ,disallowed the score be- caus of clipping on the part -of a Union player. On the next down a similar play was. made, thill time with DiLaiio on th•e receiving end of the pa1:s, but the play was called back because of an offside as the ga.me ended. The summary f<>llows : UNION WESLEYAN LEl Kendricks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost LT Agius . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mingle LG Kearns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Wallace C Fox ...................... Eyerly RG l'.foulton ................ Eastman RT Finch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Overton RE Krull ..................... Brown QB Semerad ................ Johnson LH DiLallo ............... Woodhear1 RH Rotunda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Burton FB •Chrysler . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Moyes Score ·by periods : Union ................... 0 0 0 7~7 Wesleyan ............... 0 0 7 0-7 Touchdowns-Moyes, Dain. Points after touchdowns-Burton (pla<'ement), Semerad (placement). Substitutions- Union, Dain for Rotunda, Lambeth for Agius, Crane for Moulton. Parlier for Kendricks, Arheson for DiLallo, Ro- tunda for Chrysler, Little for Kearns, Gulna<' for Fin<'h; Wesleyan. WhitnPy fm· Johnson. Huntress for Moyes, u'Lenry for I•'rost, Maclnnes for Wood- head, Erskine for Overton. Off!dals-Referee, Ginsberg, Ford- ham; umpfre, Nixon, New Hampshire; linesman, Sullivan, Springfield. Sidelights of the Wesleyan Game Hotel Bond, in Hartford, has some interesting empJ.oye•es. Connelly al- most had a date with the blond· ele- vator girl on !!he night shift, She said, \You're a pretty fast worker, aren't you?\ Connelly replied \Yeah we have to be in bed by ten o'clock.\ . . . The brunette on the day shift was even more popular, a.nd did she ·take the gang for a ride! Small Fry, the th~ee-foot pa.ge boy. took his jub very seriously. nea.rly bursting off his buttons. but lte couldn't locate \Mister RogH- Mr.. H. L. Roger, plea,se !\ * .. Then there were the ballet danc- ets . . . and the orchutr a but the e:quad had its hours. * * * Some fun trying t(J find which sidlE of the toast was buttued· in the meals bef~re the game.. But af- ter, no limits to anyHling. * * • The bus ·wasn't so bad, althou:\h Kearns l!lst eight doUars in a little game in the rear. Ches-ter \Gigolo\ DiLallo volunteered his unique bird warblings at frequent intervals. The gridiron unison glee club offered its complete repeztoire of songs. The only one without overwhelming dis- cord was \Home on the Range.\ Believe it or not, \Show Me the Way to Go Home\ lasted for one whole verse, as did \Let Me Call You Sweetheart.\ * .. Someone figured tha.t the single track railroad was cross€d no less than fifteen times. \All clear on this sld,e, James.\ * * * And the driver was fast, too. He· had the coach and the captain and all the rest of the squad on the edge of their seats as he swung around street corners at a .good clip and missed lowly autos ·by scanty inches. Homebound on a dark and narrow highway theTe we-re other thrills. The speedometer didn't stop at forty-five; it went right on up to sixty, while th·e road· seemed to come from n<;lwhere. The driver had the most interesting habit o.f letting go of the steering wheel to light his cigarette just as the bus would strike a curve. Statistics of UnionnWesle;yan Contest . Wesl'€yan Uni(Jn 8 124 11 First downs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Yards gained rushing ............. , . . .. . .. . .. . .. . . 170 Forward .p·ass·es ..... •I• •••••••• ,, • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2 Forwards· ¢omple1ed . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . . .. . . .. .. . . .. .. 1 7 Yards gained ·by forwards .. . .. . .. . . . .. . .. . . . . . . .. 12 Forwards intercepted by . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 86 1 a 2 Lateral patSses· . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Q> Laterals completed . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . n Yal'ds gained by 1aterals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0' Num,ber o.f punts· .....•.....•..........•...... , . . . 11 20 9 3-17 {) Distance of punts . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . 351 Yards lost by penalties • .. . .. • . . . .. . . . .. . .. .. . . .. . . 30· 'fennis Tournament Swings Into Second Week ()f Play The second week of competition in the fall tennis tournament is now in full swing. Moffett, who was seeded number one player in the top half, defeated Flora, 6-1 1 6·2. Warner, who was number three man, defeated Baxter, 6-1, 7-5. Ap- gar received a. default from Yul- man, and Lindabury defeated Clif- ton, 6-1, 10-8. In the bottom half Keats, seeded number two man, defeated J. Lind- abury, 6-1, 6-0. Oppenheim was vic- torious over Bliss by a 6-1, 8-S score. Marshall lost to Griswold, 6-2, 6-1. McGee .defeated Tietz, 6-2, 6-1, and Roberts received a default from Gould. Frost defeated Walker, 6-8, 6-4, 7-5, and Shultz defeated Mc- Manus, 6-2, 6-2. FROSH NOTICE A physical examination py the College Physician and a swimming test by the pool attendant are re- q11ired of all freshmen. There are still several who have failed to re- port fqr them, and they are re- quested to do so jmmedlately. Union's guests for this week will pe Hobart, who took a drub· billg from Aruher·st, our opponent of next wee:k-end. The score was 38 to 7, but don't think Amher1lt is wea.k :because Hobart scm'ed a touchdown, Quite the contrary, for this year Amherst has one of the finest teams they have lmd In several year11, regardle£s of the one wllloh captu.re<d .the Little Three title last year. This week Amherst pl~y<S Princeton. Last year the Sabrinas lost to Princeton; 22 to o, Aruhe·rst touchdowns in the Hobart game were ma·de by Brehm, 2.; Carptain Warner; 2; Dunn, and Lyman. Dunn, a 190'·pound back, w<eaved 4C yardis down the field· for the third' tl(}uchdown o·f the game. Rice, Hobart quarterback, did· plenty of pWJ,t.iJlg in an eil'ort to keep Amherst awa.y from H(Jbart's goaJI. The Hobart to.uchdown was so(Jred late in the game by Croft When Alnherst substitutes were in the game. The point after touchdown was scored on a pass to Mor- rison. THE CAZETTE PRINTERS Roche•ster lost its op·ening game to· Oberlin, little Ohio school, by a 12 to C ~core. RGchester and Oberlin have an agreement that they start their se·ason practice on the same day, owing to the fact that they are playing each other in their first conte•sts for three years in succession. This year both colleges began practice on September 18 and neither are yet in good shape. RocheS!ter's Yellowjackll'ts were cm:tweighed 10 p•otmds to a man in the line and close to 15 in the backfield. Oberlin caught Coach Davies' men flatfooted with a dazzling aerial attack early in the ·game when .they complete·d their first four passes for a •total of 78 ya.rds. Hot Noon Day Luncheons 25cents TASTY SINGLE AND DOUBLE DECK SANDWICHES Two other Union opponents did, not plan an ol'ficlal game while Swarthmore does not open its s·eas.on untll this Sa.tmday. A weelt ago Saturday the Williams Colle.ge varsity payed a SlJrprlse (to s·tu- d•ents and prfs5.) visit to the R. Pl. I. campus and the,t~ elevens sfuged a practice session. Although no official score was kept uf this game, R.. P. I. seemed to hold the upper haJJd and the;y soo·red freely. Since that pra.ctice Coach Oha.rles Caldwell of the Purple put some spirit into his menb while R. P .. I. had a week of injuries and dlis· appointments. SatUll'day the Enginee:rs returned! tbe visit by travel· lng to the Williams campus. There another practice game was play. ed. Although the score was not supposed: to be kept, sm:ru:~one one the sidelines to()k enough intme..st in. the slaughter to. count 31 poin·ts for Williams a:nd 7 for R, P. I. Rensselaer has been hampued this yE'1lr by the loss of Maxwell and Malu·, both of whom are• in school We Have Weekly Breakfast Prices - The Quality or Quantity of Our Food Con Not Be Compared Amid Pleasant Surroundings - Next to the High School- Our New Location MURRY'S Caterer of Fine Foods for 10 Years to College Students but are unable to play. ---------~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::=::::::~ Harriers Tryout for U .. V. M. Dual Run Lape Expected to Cross Line in Van of Union Contingent With Kazmierczak Second Coach Wilford H. Ketz is grea:tly encouraged by the results of a four and one half mile time trial which the cross country team held Fri- day. The balance of the team has improved enough within the last week to promise a better season than was expected. The first five men are a~sured of running against the University of Vermont in the first meet of the schedule October 7. The U. V. M. course will be about four miles long over a dirt road . The following times were handed in Friday: Kazmierczak 27:45, Mir- ate :18:0~. !,.ape 28:21, Nestle 28:30, North 28:32, Bastedo 28:57, Brock- wahl 29:06, Gottschalk 29:14, Neu- man 30:14, Kern 30:35, and Greg- ory 31:05. Lape Expected to Lead Lape is expected to lead tbe team in the Vermont meet. When his leg has lost its stiffness, Gottschalk will probably covet the course in better time. Mirate and Nestle have run consistently during the entire season and should make a good showing SaturdC].y. Kazmier- czak is counted on to follow Lape. In the first meet of last year against Colgate, Boerner won first place with 27:43. There was a (jif- ference of thirty-eight seconds be- tween first and fifth place In that meet as compared with forty sec- onds difference in Friday's time trial. Union ran up a perfect score against Colgate, all the Garnet run- ners finishing before the first man on the opposing team. Vermont was not on the team's schedule last year. FROSH NOTICE There are still some freshmen who have not called for their gym- nasium equipment at the gymnas- ium. They are urged to get it at; once, as ail unissued goods must be returned to the various dealers by the end of the week. NO MORE RUNNING OUT oF INK -due to this Vaeumatie Filler Pen lnveati4lD Bolds 102% mt~re lnk-Siu~ws when to refillt Parker's Revolutionary Pen- Laminated Pearl, ultra-smart and exclusive P ARKER now presents an utterly revolutionary pen- invented by a scientist at the University of Wisconsin. A pen that gets rid ofthe customary rubber ink sac,-but more, the first sacless pen to abolish piston pumps and valves. It contains no device that will render it useless. later. It holds 102% more ink, with na increase in size! And its ultra-smart and exclusive barrel-fully pat- ented-is built up ring upon ring of laminated Pearl and Jet, as shimmering as velvet, or Pearl and transparent Amber that looks like jet till held to the light. Then you can see the quantity of ink within-see when to refill. This eliminates running out of ink at some critical moment during lectures or exams. This ••miracle pen\ obsoletes all other types. It is guar- anteed mechanically perfect. Go to a·ny nearby counter. .Try it today. The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wisconsin. 1'arker J7ACYMAT.IC FILLER ~·~ laminated Pearl or Plain Jet Pencil to MC>fch, $3.50 Jet or Plain Transparent Pen, $5; Pencil, $2.50

Four THE CONCORDIENSJiS, 'I1UE.SDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1933 SPIKll{D SIIOE SOOIE'l'V E ,. ht F t •t• es College Orchestm Is Planned Ig _ . ra erlll 1 - Under Leadership of Mr. Pike Announce Pledges NRA Le,gality Topic Union College Outing Club r~~~~e·C~~ay.six hours by car from .. . To Hold First Hike Sunday Anyone intereste·d in the Outing · 'Of p' h .. } th- · . ' Club is urged to communiqate wi±h Ther~ will ;be a m:eeting>of the . • . · -• J oma . eans Fredelick Wyatt, room 9, Middle Spiked Sh0e So1\ie1y Fl:iday at 1:30 --- Section, South ·Coll£ge No p1 evious p. m. in the Tr6ph:y Room of the Plans for organizing a college or- The t,Jn·r'on Collgge Outing .club G i Ch gotra of a·bout th1'rty five p1'eceo ~ expe!·ience in outin.g is necessa .. ry. _ _:y_rn~n._a_s~u·~IP-~·~--------- . ~\ · · - · ~ will hold its first hilte Sund.ay along Beta Theta Pi Plans to Open .were discussed Friday afternoon bh The Philomathean Debating So- the Plotter Kill. Meeting at two a group of students. meeting wit ci.ety resumed its activities yester- o'clocl$ in room 9, Middle Section, Social Season With Dance · Mw 1 ! 11 • Waciltli~ams· Cdr:rPecitkoer, O·Pf 1 A 0 1 1 beas~oyr, wEhlo day with a practice d·ebate on the South College, the club will tz.a vel S T . R E G I S Aftel . Swa.rthmore Game · · · · - · - topic: \Resq!ved: That the Present by car or bus to the s·pot where the mer A. Tidmarsh, who arranged for National Administration through its •Plotter Kill crosses the Rotter·darn PHARMACY ! ·The' Acme Ba·rber Mr. Pike to .start th~ orc.hestra, said NRA Pro.g'ram Is Encroaching on road·, and· from there they ·wHl fol~ CHARLES R. CAREY, Prop. ·that he is heartily in favor of the tl;te Constitution.\ The negative' ·low tlle stream towards its source. Eight fraternities have announced idea and is anxious that a large team, consisting of Cla.rk Cum- The walk wHt ·be easy for those who 600· Union Street ·the pledging of additional men since number of students tum out for the mings,. '37, John K. 'Sullivan, '34, and have not had much out of door ex-- Phone 4-1123 WELC'O·MES Co,llege Students the last issue of The Concor·diensis. first rehearsal tomorrow night at Arthur HaUaday, '37, w0n •by a 2\1 perience, but more difficult trips.'================: The men who have ·been pledged ·7:30 in Silliman Hall. decision of the judges over the af- may ·be attempted later. ;: are: : All studen-ts who .play orchestral firmative team composed of Irving Frederick A. Wyatt, '32, and Rob- Alpha Phi Delta-JGhn Marsells, .inskuments are invited to bring A. Kushm<Jn, '34, J. Rooney, '37, ert c. No·rth, '36, spent the weeli Angelo Marotta, Martin Viscusi, 'their· instruments and music s:tands, and David.J. Ring, '37. An infmmal end in i:he Adirondack Mountains,. Schenectady; Robert Barbagelatta, 'if they have them, to the rehearsal discussion on the topic followed at locating country suitable for wee·k, Altamont; and Harry Marra, Co- tomonow night. Mr. Pike, the direc- the conclusion of the debate. end outings. Saturday night they ' hoes. tor,, ·has h<l;d sevual yean: of ex- ·This was not only the first de- found a particularly remote lake Chi Psi-Edwar.d Mure, Scheme- ,peuence. wrth orchestras m New bate of the present season but a:lso near the headwaters 0f the Jessup tady. York Crty. . the first d'Ebate conducted under the Kappa Nu-Irving Handelman,~ Regular rehearsals· -;,yrn be ar-' revised mdhod of conducting trial '35, Schenec•tady; and Marvin Katz,. r!_lngeO: so .that they wrll not con- debates. Each team consisted of Troy. flrct wrth erther Band or Glee Club three men instead Qf two as was Ka:ppa Alpha-H. K. V. To.rnpkins· schedules. the former custom, and each team II, Los Angeles. was. allowed only one rebuttal argu- Lambda Chi Alpha-Samuel Does- Changes in Repeated Course men.t instead of two. The new meth- cher, Ballston Spa. od makes it .possible for mo:re men Phi .Sigma Delta-Morton Yul- Fees Made Public by Bursar to participate in each contest. mari, Schenectady. . ___ At the ·next meeting, which will Phi Sigma Kappa-Rehm1 De,n- be held Monday evening in the ·Old ton, Ballston Spa; Thomas Blars- 'Professor Anthony I:foadley, Bur- Chapel, the topic for debate vii:!l be: dell, Coeymans; and Oscar Muller, sar, made the following ·announce- \Resolved: That the United States Little Falls. ment yesterday: . . Adopt the British System ·of Broad· Theta Delta Chi-Arthur Halli- \The repeated course fee to be cast Control.\ Jerome L. Cohen, day, Oswego; and Kenneth Young, charged for· repeating during the Chester Nessel and William FHed- '36, Utica. . . next academic year courses failed man, aB of th·e class of '37, will Expert Work At ELITE TAILOR 516 Union Street Rosendale Florist Jay St., at Franklin Saturday will ·be a busy r:rght for during the present academic year uphold the affirmative against a the hard working pledges m three will be ch1;1nged. The fee beginning negative team consisting of Francis of the houses. Alpha Phi Delta ~a:: with the acad'emic :\'ear 19:14-1935 E. Townley, 37, Charles H. Reeves, planned a card party, over whrc.h will be five dollars per semester, ·~;7;a;n;d;;;W;;.;B;;r·;a~d;le~y~P;I~u~m;•m~e;r~,;·3~6~·=;;~~~~~~~;;~~~~~~~: M:rs. Alexander Grasso will preside. hour and this fee will be charged A victrola dance will ·be given by for repeating anv work required in Phi Sigma Kappa, and will be a student's curriculum. This means sponsored by Mr. and Mrs. Jack that courses such as physical train- Beaumont, of Albany, Mr. and Mrs. inP' engineering lectures. etc., fm Grant Towne and Mr. and Mr b. which no fee has been charged in Harry CrePier, of Schenectady. t'he past will be included a;mong .the Theta Delta Chi will entertain its cour~es for which a fee is cl:larged.\ Hobart brothers afteT the game o---: - Saturdav. with a buffet dinner. Beta ·Theta Pi annonuces plans for a da·nce following the Swarth· more game. ---o--- Union Graduated Three At First Commencement On a May morning in 1797 Union College held her first Commence- ment at which time John L. Zubris-, kie of Schenectady, Cornelius D Schermurhorn of GrecnbuEh, and Joseph Sweetman of Charlton, New York, were pres·ented their Bach- lor Degrees. NEW GARNET CHEER U-N- I--- 0 RAH!! U - N - I -- 0 -- N RAH!! U-N·I-0-N (Whistle) BOOM!! Team, Team, Team ----o----- N A~IHERST GAME TICKETS Students desirjng seats in the Union sectioh for the Amherst game must purchase their tickets from a member of the Student _. A Larg,e Assortment of Warm Clothing WOOLEN AND LEATHER JACKETS. CORDUROY TROUSERS. ETC. The Hub Store 137 STATE STREET Bellinger Paint Co. ARTHirJ'R TRIGG, Prop. Paints, Oils, Varnishes, Class Brushes and W aU Pa,per 126 BROADWAY 509 Union St. TREMBLAY'S CORNER LlBERTY-NOTT TERRACE Private Dininq Room for College Students SANDWICHES -·. ALL KI~pS - MEALS , .. 'f,· PRESIDENTS AND DEPARTMENT HEADS OF 'l'HE LEADING UNIVERSlTlES RECOMMEND WEBSTER•s COLLEGIATE \Tks best. America~ cllctioJ!ary t.l&at has ;yet appearecZ for a college student t.o keep tvlthin arm's reach. What. he does not find between ittt cover~ in relation to the general use of words in speech 10r on pTinted pages will not be necessary to a liberal tirts degreD.\-Orton Lowe, Direc- tor, Winter Institute of Literature, lln.iversity of Jliamt .. The best abridged dlct!onnry ·b~cnuso it is ba\d oti the \Supreme Author!ty\-Webstor·s New International Dlctlonory. 106,000 entries including hundreds or new words, \vlth defini- tions. snelling's, anU cOrrect use; a dictiOnary of Biography: n ~~~.z:et~·'~i.m~:rlr ofuf~~~~~~·~.r~': ~~d•a:~~~~~· .. a~~~~·~~~~~ features or prilct!cal VBIUO, 1,268 pa~es. l,7U0 Illustrations. See It At Your Collego Bookstore or Write for Information to the Publishers. The first graduation was a great event for Old Dmp whose citizens had spent sixteen years in pdition· ing the New Yorlt State Board of Regents for a charter to establish a college. The grant was finally given Schenectady on February 25, 1705. TwQ years later the townsmen, as zealous as ever, thronged to the Old Dutch Reformed Church to witness the results of their labor. Council on or before Saturday. Tic- i. G. & C. MERRIAM CO. SPRINGFIELD, MASS. kets are $1.10. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~==~--------------~~~~---=~~~~====~==:_~~::~~==~===== The church was filled to over- flowing. Governor Jay of New Yo.rlt and his· lieutenant governor wrth many other locally and na:tional·lY known figures were numbered 111 the audience which was moved to tears by the address to the grad· uates delivered by the Preeidcnt of the College, th~ Revere~d Doct.or John Blair Sm1th of Ph1ladelphra, whose message is describ£d by Sweetman as being \pointed par- ental, and affectionate.\ ---0 Capitol District Is Hildng and Outing Rich. Field (Continued from Page 1) markable caves cut into the Scho- l'rarie Hills. Hadley Mountain, overlooking the Conklinville Reservoir, is a worthwhile climb, ea:sily accessible. Slide Mountain, in the ·Catskills, af- fords a view of seven states and plenty of forest land. If winter .conditions permit, snow trains will probably run regularly to ski trails in the Adirondacks and Berkshire~. The Mohawk Val- ley Hiking Club and the Schene.c- tady Winter Sports Club keep m touch with f'now conditions in dif- ferent parts of the state and pub- lish• maps showing localities suit- able for winter sports. With all the above-mentioned places and still others located in the vicinity of Schenectady, Union College offers unusual opportunities for those who are intereeted in winter sports and mountain climb- ing. ---o--- Dupre Was Child Prodigy When 12; Played at Rouen <Continued from Page 1) cital and w~ will not consider that little reunion as an extra burden at all, just on the contrary ... \ In regard to the themes to be submitted to Mr. Dupre for his im- provisations, Mrs. Dupre writes: \Mr. Dupre says that you are tn do just as you like-if you want a s~·rnphonic extemporization, pre- pare two themes- or if YQU wish him to improvise a prelude a·nd fugure, or to improvi:se on some popular theme, or on some hymn tune, it, will be just a~ ,you pre- fer ... The brisk advance sale ·of seats at the College News Burea-u. in Silliman Hall, an<;! at Cluett's musjc store on lower State street, indi- cates th~~Jt a Ja:rge audienc~,~ill be present to be·ar the world rainous French organist. Students of Union will be admit- ted on their registration ceri:ifl- cates. Students of other institu- tions will be admitted for 75 cents, and others for one dollar. • '' t•n\. IH.crrr & Mvuns ToslCCO Co, • en you happen across a friend • • • and he offers you a pipe-load of tobacco, he doesn't make any speeches about it. He just says • • • ~1t's made to smoke in a pipe . • • and folks seem to like Granger.\ a sensible package 10 cents -the tobacco that's MADE FOR PIPES l ' ' i. I I' ) \ I l J ' ] r

I { ! , I I I' '· ) 'I I I' r I ... t .. Come and • • Turner Hear Marcel t StS Chosen Head Dupre at Of Senior Memorial Class; Chapel To- Juniors Elect morrow Night Semerad No.5 UNION COLLEGE; SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1933 Vol. LVII Program For Dupre Recital Six Men in Favor 'College J?o~Bette~, Turner, Semerad, North, and T N . ht A . d Of Proposals Made ·More Serious Now L~~ff•t El d p ·d omorrow 1g · .. nnounee · B c · d. . .· :Says· Landret.,.. 'Sl 1 1 on · ecte rest ents y oncor tensis · · u, All Records Broken by Advance Sale of 'Tickets For W odd-Renowned Organist's Recital Tomorrow Evening in the Memorial Chapel, Says Horan Turner Griswold Partridge . \Uncle Billy\ Describes Sports Guln~c Dain 'and Smith At Union Sixty Years Ago; Give S~pport' to New Plan, Knows \Good Ball Game\ Dain, MeN ab, Mower, Davis, Moffett, McDowell and Moulton Elected to P1~om Committee; Neese, Gul- nac, Tripp, Roberts and Sitney to Lead Seniors ~·------------------------------ SOCIAL LIFE CONFINED Senior President W ASSMANSDORF POET RECEPTION FOIR DUPRE Members of Faculty ''\'omen's · Club Sponsor Reception For Organist in Silliman Hall The advance sale of tickets for Marcel Dupre's concert tomorrow evening in the Memorial ·Chapel has •broken all records. according to James Hman. '34. Glee Club man- aget. Both the News Bureau and Cluett's ticket di~trlbutors, have re- ported Ja,rge advance sales. Following the concert, there will be a reception in Silliman Hall for Mr. Dupre, sponsored b'' the Faculty Women's Club, Mts. F. Mortimer Sayre being in charge of arrange- ments. The program will be as follows: 1. Sinfonia from Cantatano No. 29 by Bach: The prelude from this composition \WirDonken Dir Gott\ was composed by its renowned writer in 1731 for organ and orches- tra as a thanksgiving to God for the happy issue of the municipal elections at Leipsic. 2. Fragments from \The Stations of the Cross,\ by Mar·cel Dupre: 1st station-Jesus is condemned to death, 3rd station-Jesus falls the first time, 8th station-Jesus com- forts the women of Jerusalem, 11th, station-Jesus is nailed on the Cross, 12th station-Jesus dies on the Cross, Hth station-The body of Jesus is laid in the tomb. This great work which was started: in the spring of 1!J31 and ended apout a year later, was performed for fj:le first time by Marcel Dupre on the Trocadero in Paris on March 18, 1932. 3. Concerto In G Min(}r, No. 3, by Handel: Adagio, Allegro, Recitative, Gavotte. Like all other concertos, all composed for organ and orches- tra by Handel, this one was scored for strings an,d two oboes, but there is, in addition, a solo violin and a solo c·ello which are heard alter- nately as in a dialogue mainly in the first and third movements. 4. Cantabile from the 7th Sym- phony, by Widor: 'l'his piece was inspired by the feast of the Holy Sacrament and the procession that takes place on that day_ It suggests the poetic vision of the white clad children attendi,1g the procession and the religious fervor of the con- gregation. 5. Fanta.\ile (dedicated to Mai'Oill Dupre), b~· Adams: This Fantasie is the first important organ work composed by the well-known New York Organist Frank Adams and r<>veals undeniably great musical gffts. 6. Sl'IDP•honic Interlude from \R<'~ demption,\ by Franck: This Inter- lude which is found between the two parts of the famous Oratoric; by ·Cesar Franck \Redemption\ is the acme of the whole work. 7. Sch<'rzo from \A Midsummer Night's Dream,\ by M~delssobn: This famous piece which is so char- acteristic of the airy lightness of Mendelssohn's style demands a dazzling technique on the organ. It suggests in a most vivid manner the dialogues between the groups of flutes, clarinets and violins in the orchestral work. 8. Finale from . Chol'al Symphony in D Minor, by Polster: This is the concluding movement of the chora:l symphony for organ and orche!\tra composed in Paris in 1!)28 while studying with Marcel Dupre, and performed by the Los .Angeles Phil- harmonic Orchestra under Dr. Arthur Rodzinski in January 1933. 9. Souvenir {de{).ica.ted to the memory of L;'\'1lnwood Farnum), by Marcel Dupre. 10. Improvisations on a submitted theme. Here Tomorrow Mountebanks Pick College Day Cast \Intruder by Maeterlinck Is Put Into Rehearsal Tonight Additional Tryouts Planned A consensus· of student opinion d·ecid'edly favors the propos·als set forth in Tuesday's issue of the Con- cordiensis as regards freshman rules. Except for a .few minor dif- ferencE'S, upperclassmen questio·ned on the r ulcs end.orse the policy of greater leniency toward the first y.ear men. Student opinion tends toward abolition of out-worn puc- tices and emphasis on the regula- tions that suve definite pur.poses. Most of those questioned· seem of the opinion that the h es·hmen are well enough veued in campus tradi- tion by Thanksgiving or, at the lat- est, by Christmas to make fur theT discipline unnece·ssary. Here are the opinions of a few well !mown students: Alexanc>t:r Turner, Psi Upsilon, President of the Senior cla::s: \It is only natural that the tendency to- ward seriousness in coUege life should seek expression in a modifi- cation o·f the antiquated Fr,eshmen 1 ules. The fr.eshmen should have thEir \new dea:l.\ I am. in accord with the Concmdiensis plan. Henry Gulnao, '34, Alpha Delta Phi, member of the Student Coun- cil: \I think that the new system is an improvement but that a more rigid system of enforcement should be provided.\ Gu;y Griswold, '36, Phi Gamma Delta, member of the Student Coun- cil: \I favor the proposals set forth by the Concordiensis, however I feel that discipline S'hould not be carried out along browbeating prin- ciples.\ Douglass. Smith, '34, Alpha Delta Phi: \I am in favor of the new proposals if they are really en- forced.\ Charles Darn, '35, Beta Theta Pi, mernber of the varsity football team: \I am in agreement with .the changes proposed by the Concor- diensis with one exception. I think freshmen should wear caps until Christ:mas.\ The cast choaen at the first try- outs Wednesday for the College Day production of the Mountebanks on November 11, will put the \In- truder\ by Maurice Ma:eterlinck, into rehearsal tonight at 7:30 in the theater. Other students, who missed the· initial tryouts, will be tested to- night for possible parts not only in \The Intruder\ but also for parts in the two \morality plays\ which will make up the regular fall pro- duction on December 8 and 9. Leslie Partridge, '35, Kappa Al- pha, assistant manager of basket- ball: \I agree with the Concor dien- sis proposals with the exception that fr es·hmen wear caps until Moving-up Day.\ Many Clubs to Hold First Meeting of Y eat· Tuesday Cast Is Experienced An experienced cast, containing only one freshman, was picked to present \The Intruder\. some ma- The extra-curricular activities at Students Had No Buggies but Walked or Waded to Class; Intercl~ss Spirit Stronger By ROBERT C, NOR'I'H \You can't make old men out of college boys,\ said William B. Lan- dreth, Union '81, \and thaes why· people criticize them so. But they're not bad, because I know it for a fact, and you can't dispute facts. They arc jm>t as good-no, better than when I went to college. Boy~; today are serious and want to make something of themselves. Of course. they have more distractions today; we didn't have cars, ot· movies. But students study just as hard and drink much less.\ Everyone has seen \Uncle Billy\ Landreth walking through the grounds with hts dog or watching football games. He is as enthusias- tic about athletics as any under- graduate in college. He knows a good ball game, too. When he went to Uni®, there were no paid coaches to supervise each sport, but the boys gathered on the lower campus to practice swatting balls and running bases. In those days they were· fast. Each season the team played Colgate, Hamilton, Syra:cuse, and Yal~-and ran up some cracking good scores! Gridiron Near Library Football hadn't yet become popu- lar in '81, but the boys used to kick the ball around. Later a gridiron was laid out on the lower campus. Anyone looking carefully can still see the five yard lines in the grass nea:r the library. Everyone knew his classmates better in those days. In the first place, Union had only two hundred students. Schenectady, too, was smaller, and there wasn't much so- cial life open for college boys. Sat- urday night you might drop around to see some of your friends and have a ca:rd game, or on rare occa- sions there were shows in the· Umon Playhouse downtown. More often, however, you would just hang about the dormitories or sit on the terrace and smoke. No student ever owned a horse and buggy; he walked. The campus wasn't criss-crossed with sidewalks, either. A fe.w high stones kept you out of the mud in the worst places. Otherwise you waded. Fraternities Off Campus terial, however, was discovered Union are again coming to the at- among the first year men, and they tention of the students after the a:re giving the upperclassmen much usual dormant period of summer. competition for parts. The ·various clubs and societies are The casts for the morality plays, organizing or will orga:nize in the \Everyman\ and \The Second Shep- • near future for the busy winter herd's Play\ wlll be announced ahead. Below is listed a partial ac- Tuesday, in order to give those try- count of the clubs and societies ing out tonight a cha;nce for parts. who have organized for the season. Beside the regular presentations in The German Club for those inter- December, arrang,ements are a:lso ested in the language will hold being made to take the plays on their meetings on the second and. tour during the Christmas vaca- fourth Tuesdays of every month in North and South colleges, the collonades, the old Chemical Lab- oratory, the Old Chapel-these were almost the only buildings. The library was begun while \Uncle Billy\ was a freshman. 'l'here were no fraternity houses on the cam- pus. In fact, Union had only five (Continued on Page 5) New System Tried by Student Council Brings Out Largest Vote of A11y Class Election All records were broken yester- day when the largest vote ever cast was recorded in the cla~s elections held during Daily Assembly. This was the first time that the new system of conducting these ·elec- tiens was tried out. The new sys- t~m which was devised by the Stu- dent Council not only ·eliminates the poll tax which used to be re- quired of anyone who wanted to vote, but also makes .it possible for more students to cast their ballots. ALEXANDER M. TURNER Alexander Turner, Ralph D. Sem- erad, Robert C. Nerth, and Donald Liffiton were chosen by their class- mates to head the Senior, Junior, Sophomore, and Freshman classes respectively. There was a tie be- tween George J. Ward and George R. Warner for Class Historian of the Sophomore class. A revote wHI take place sometime next week. Other Senior Class officers are: Centi·al New Y orl{ Bishop To Talk in Sunday Chapel Dr. Charles Fiske, Bishop of Cen- tral New York, will deliver the ser- mon at the regular Sunday Chapel services. Dr. Fiske was awarded the Bach- elor of Arts Degree in 1893 and the degree of Doctor of Divinity in 1912 by Saint Stephen's College at Ann- andale, N. Y.; the Ba·chelor of Div- inity and the Doctor of Sacred Theology degrees in 1896 by the Theological Seminary; the degree of Doctor of Laws by Syracuse University in 1916; the degree of Doctor of Divinity by Hamilton College in 1921; and the degree of· Doctor of the Humanities by Ho-· bart College, Geneva, l'i. Y. in 1926: n.eacon in 1896 Dr. Fiske was Deacon in 1896 and Priest in 1897 of the Protesta:nt Episcopal Church. He was asso- ciate missionary at Trenton, N. J. from 1896 to 1897; rector at West- field, N.J. from 1897 to 1900; assist- ant at Mount Cavalry Church at Baltimore from 1900 to 1901; rector of the Church of the Transfl.gura- 1 tion at Philadelphia from 1901 to 1902, at SomervilTe, N _ J. from 1902 · to 1908; and at St. John's Church, Norristown, Pa. from 1908 to 1910. Before coming to the Bishopric in Central New York, Dr. Fiske had declined an election as Bishop of Dallas, Texas, as well as other elec- tions to city parishes. His last par- ish was that of Saint Michael and All Angels, in Baltimore, which is the largest church of its commun- ion south of Philadelphia. Gordon Neese, Vice-President; Henry Gulnac, Secretary; Reed Tripp, Treasurer; John Roberts, Class Historian: Paul Wassmans- dorf, Class Poet; and Julius Sitney, Senior member of the Publication Board. Captain of Track Alexander Turner, Psi Upsilon, newly-elected president of the Sen- ior Class, is a member of both the Student and the 'l'erra:ce Councils, c.:;.ptain of track, president of the Spilted Shoe Society and secretary of the Student Council. Last year he served as secretary of the Jun- ior Prom Committee. In his sopho- more year he was secretary of the Student Body. Gordon Neese, Delta Upsilon, is manager of Lacrosse a:nd also of Freshman cross-country, and since his sophomore year he has been a member of the varsity swimming team. He also served last year on the Junior Prom Committee. In his first two years he was a mem- ber of the Spanish Club a:nd as a freshman played on the freshman baseball team. Henry Gulnac, Alpha Delta Phi, is head of The Students Service Bureau. Last year he served on the Student Council and was re- elected this year. In his Junior year he was Vice-President of the Y. M. C. A . .As a sophomore he was on both the football and track var- sity squads, and in his first year played freshman football. Reed Tripp, Delta Phi, is also a member of the Student Council. Last year he sang in the choir, was a member of the Junior Prom Committee, and served as Asso- ciate Editor of the 1934 Garnet. In. his. sophomore year he was a mem- ber of the Instrumental Club and tion. Silliman Hall. The French and Atmosphere Stressed Spanish Clubs also hold their meet- ings at the same time and place. The story of \The Intruder\ as written by Maeterlinck, is mainly' The Glee Club rehearses every one of atmosphere. It purposes to Wednesday at 3:30 in Hanna Hall. represent the entrance of death, Debaters will have an opportun- the intruder, into the family circle.· ity to get together when the Philo- The three main parls are taken by math-.an Debating Society meets Abraham Smith, '34, as the blind, every Monday at 7·30 in the Old grandfather, Frank Dean Roylance, Chapel. Alma Mater Saved from Wastebasket Of Fitzhugh Ludlow by Roommate for the last three years he has been a member of the Glee Club. Last yea:r he appeared in several of the plays produced by the Mountebanks. John Roberts is one of three neutrals who were elected officers of the Senior Class. He is a mem- ber of the Idol Board and in his sophomore year he was on the Jr., '34, as the father, and Sidney The Student Chapter of Ameri- D. Markham, '34, as the domineer- can Society of Civil Engineers as- ing and ea:sily excited uncle. sembles every second Tuesday at Others chosen to act in the play 1:45 o'clock at the Civil Engineer- ars \The First Daughter\ Ferdi- ing Building. nand Helm, Jr., '37; \The Second Dr. Kellogg supervises the meet- Daughter\ Robert J. McManus, '36; ings of the Classical Club on the \The Third Daughter\ Thomas sPcond Tuesday of every month. Ordway, Jr., '34; \Servant\, Roger This club a:ims to bring to its mem- D. Sherman, '36; 'Sister of Mercy\ bers many of the attractive subjects William H. Mitchell, '36. in classical history and literature. The Young Men's Christian Asso- -----o---- SPIKED SHOE SOCIETY By VEDDER M. GILBERT N. Raymond, '58. Raymond in later years presented the original manu- Rcript and that of Dr. Day's favor- ite, \The Terrae!:' Song,\ to the Kappa Alpha Society, which is still the pround possessor of these his- toric documents. \Spa.1·kllng and Bright\ track squad. Editor of Idol Paul Wassmansdorf. another neu- tral, is Editor-in-Chief of the Idol, lightweight be>xing champion of Union College and a member of the varsity golf team. He served as an Associate Editor of the 1934 Garnet and contributed to the Idol. He is also a member of the Glee Club and German Club. Students of Union College will be admitted free upon presentation of their athletic tickets, while students of other institutions will receive twenty-five cents discount on their admission. Because of the absence of the members of the varsity cross-Coun- try team who were in Vermont for a race with that team tomorrow, there was no meeting of the Spiked Shoe Society scheduled for this af- ternoon. Announcement of the next meeting will be made la:ter. ciation hold their meetings on the. second and fourth Mondays of every month at Silliman Hall, 2:00 o'clock. Mr. Enzer's class in journalism is held on every Tuesday at 7:30 o'clock in the Student Publications· Office. One morning near Commence- ment Day, 1856, President Eliphalet Nett called Fitz Hugh Ludlow into his office. Doctor Nott knew that Ludlow had immortalized the Ter- race Wall in a poem which, to the tune of \A Little More Cider,\ was being sung by the students as they crossed the ea:mpus on their way to classes. Dr. Nott was certain that Ludlow was capable of writing a poem to be read at his own grad- uation. The young man promised to make an a:ttempt towards ful- filling Dr. Nott's requ~st. That evening the student-poet re- tired to his room on the second ftoor, front of North Section, North College. There he set himself to his task. Ludlow worked until late at night. He finished a draft of the song, but d.issatisfled with it he flung the manuscript into the waste basket. Luckily the poet's room mate saw his friend discard the dra:ft. In the morning the boy res- cued the poem from the basket, brought it to Dr. Nott who was overcome by its classical beauty. The President called in Ludlow who took back the song, made a few minor revisions, gave it the title of \Song of Old Union,\ and dedicated it to his fraternity brother, aenry At the close of thP 1856 Com- mencement Exercises, \Song to Old Union\ wa:s sung to the air of \Sparkling and Bright.\ The cus- tom of closing graduation with this song, begun on that day, has car- ried through to the present. It was not long afterwards that \Old Union\ was adopted by Union Col- lege a:s her \Alma Mater.\ Ludlow is also the author of a Jesser known Union song, \Alumni Song,\ which he wrote in a patri- otic mood, rhyming the words to \The Star-Spangled Banner.\ Julius Sitney, also a neutral, has been connected with the Mounte- ba:nks since his freshman year. Last year he served as Secretary and this year is President of the college dramatic organization. In his sophomore year he was a mem- ber of the Philomathean Debating Society. Other officers elected by the jun- ior class are: Charles Dain, vice- president; John Moffett, Secretary; Donald B. Moulton, treasurer, and John Gain, class historian. The following were elected members of the Junior Prom Committee·: Daily Assembly S}Jeakers Tomorrow·-Anstin M. Fox, Cap- tain of Varsity Football. Tuesday - Mr. H. La:urence Achilles. \Vednesday-Pl'ofessor George D. Kellogg, \Language Study in General Education. Thursday - .Julius J. Sitney, president of the }4ountebanks. Il\IPORTANT NOTICE Students are reminded that they are to show their athletic tickets at the gate for tomorrow's game as well as the tickets for the game which were pr'<lcured at Professor J. Harold Wittner's office this· week ------o--- Acheson and 'l'urner Chosen Officers by 'ferrace Council The Terrace Oouncil, at its meet- ing after the Student Council se·s- sion Wednesday, •elected Thomas Acheson vice-president, and .Alexa:n- d.er Turner, LS·e•creta·ry-tr·e•asurer. Daniel Flinn was· elected Presid'ent l•as.t spring. Within a year after leaving col- lege, Union's poet, then nearing his twentieth year, ha:d his first book, \The Hasheesh Eater,\ published by Harper Br()tbers. For a time following this work hid literary life lay dorma,nt while he acted as asso- ciate principal in an acad~my in Watertown, New York. Following his teaching position, Ludlow spent <Continued on Page 5) · Charles Dain, Duncan McNab, Stanley Mower, Richard Davies, Raymond McDowell, John Moffett, and Donald Moulton. Ralph D. Semr>rad, Delta Upsilon, is both an all-around athlete and (Continued on Page 6)

Two Olnnrv .. . trusts \A ( 'au.•a l'croa l'ai'Ole Aooa·i'' Fovsm:u 1S76 Affiliated With Pi Delta Epsi'lon ~$!iodate-~, @~:!!~9,iate ~~('SS )£})): {I<AltONA~OV_~ 19)4 =: The official nf'wspaper of the students of Union College. Pub!is•hed Tuesdays and Fridays throughout the college year, except during Christmrus and s·pring recesses. ----------------- Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 33.4 State St., Schenecta:dy, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter · Sub:;cnption price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States~ Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Address all busines·s communications to Arthur J. Katzberg, !{appa Nu House, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. All other communications to George R. Cory, Jr., Psi Upsi:lon House, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD George R. Cory, Jr .............. Editor-in-Chief Arthur J. Katzberg .......... Business Manager C. William Huntley ........... Managing Editor Robert H. Smith .................. News Editor Arnold J. Friedman .............. Sports Editor Prince E. Oleson ................ Feature Editor C. Hathaway M. Berger JUNIOR BOARD D. Moulton J. Woo1man R. Diamond HELP WANTED Do you want to put your spare time to a pleasant and profitable use? Would you like to get better acquainted with Union College stu- dents, and actually get paid for it? Remuneration small at first, but will increase tremendously in time. NOT a selling proposition. For further information, present your- self at a place and time to be an- nounced in chapel. Unlike many such advertisements, every sta~ttement in the one above is true. It is a call, a straightforward plea, for your support in one or more of the various extra-curricular activities. And while a plea, it is also an opportunity fm· you to enrich yourself in many ways; for that \remuneration\ is not a tricky catch-it is an actual fact. l\Iany upperclassmen and practically all of the freshsmen can sca1·cely realize how much real value there is for them in taking part in any of the various activities offered on Union's campus. As in the parable used in DR LIGON'S 1·ecent Daily Assembly talk, wlwn a call is made for candidate managers and assistant editors, for musical or dram- atic club tryouts, or for almost any activity, it falls on deaf ears. If the announcement should perchance reach the listener's think- ing apparatus, he mentally argues himself away ft·om the opportunity-''W'hat g.ood will that do me'? What will I get out of it?'' Here is the average student's big mistake. lie can not visualize four or five years ahead, when the results of extra-curricular work show its greatest benefits. He can not even see a few months ahead, when the getting out and doing something in any activity be- gins to broaden the undergraduate's college life by the association with the more ener- getic and intelligent students. nemuneratious? It is so great that it is immeasureable. Who can put down in :fig- m·es, in dollars and cents, the value of the helpful and educational experience offE>red by almm;t any extm-curricular activity, or the value of a broad cultural and social develop~ ment, free from cliques, OI' the value of a man's friendship? In that ''Help Wanted\ ad, there are no restrictions as to who may apply. \Too late to come out now,\ it may be said; but that is wholly untrue. \I haven't time,\ another argues; but one candidate manager rlecla~ed that, since his idle time had been put to good use, he was able to get more accomplished than before answering the call for help. Next week fifteen clubs of all kinds will open their year's activity. Elsewhere in this paper is a calendar of the scheduled meet- ings. Look over the list; pick out one or two activities. that appeal to you; reserv.e that day on your own calendar; and don't go to .iust the first meetings, but stick it out. Not only are you making Union stronger, but you are also maldng yourself richer. THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1933 0 A GOOD IDEA \'1 I It seems strange that ~~body has e~er I In the Mail I. done much .toward orgamzmg an outmg .'.;;;;;===========;;!.I To the Editor of The Concordiensis: RANDO-M OB.SERV AT IONS By club here up to now. Since such an organiza- Sidney David Markman tion appears to be in the making, we hope that everythiRg possible will be done to make the club a complete sl:lccess. Last spring we heard a renewed outburst from both faculty and students against \Daily Assemb~yi' This was the result of a series of unfortunate chapel progtams. The The NRA is not measuring up. to The whole scheme seems to be no Administration pr·o:mised to see the expectations of even the less more than a juggling of the gr·a.ph. what could be done. I think the optimistic of the optimists. One· Manufactures they claim will con- student .body should congratulate· sees advertisements in the news- tinue in thei·r way upward as be- the powers that be for what has papers and magazines-\Is the , fore. Credit, however, will boUnd been done. So far this year Assem- NHA a Success? Rea:d about it in· up· at one jump· to mee·t the manu- bly has offered the Stndent Body the next issue.\ What can be the facturing trend and then follow 1·eally interesting programs. None. trouble? First lt was the indus- along the same line of ascent. The that I have attended has been less tries that could not be codified fast . tspect of the two .gr-aphs will ·look than good. I hope this high stand- enough. But now that most of the the same; but the units in the ard may •be kept up. major in-dustries inclusive of all the CJ;edit .gl;'.a:pn, rulthough the same Now to bring up another matter. basic ones have come UJ;:tder the siz.e. as those of manufactures, will Would it be possible to create an- wing of the Blue Eagle, there not represent a dollar per unit, but other distPibution point for The seems to be something amiss. Is· let us say arbi1;rarily in c~se of it1- Concordy? There is a large part ot there a monkey-wrench in the ma- · flation,, a half dollar. In other the student body not living in fra- chiuery? Who threw it in? It is words, twice as much money will ternity houses who never see the not a monkey-wrench and no one circulate, but alas it will only be sur- college paper unless they make a , threw anything in save some of our . worth half as J;nuch. There is no reason why Union College cann0t have an outing club that will in time become very well known. The Dartmouth Outing Club has trails and cabins all ov.er the White Mountains, and offers an excellent oportunity for mountain climbing to anyone who is interested in the outdoors. cpecial trip away down to Silliman near-great statesmen. Just a few Why should the manufacturers rounds Schenectady, a Union College Outing Hall for a copy. How about placing parts missing. A wheel here, a. g:raph be so far in advance of the . a supply of the pa:per on a table in gadget there, and a lever some- credit graph? Why the sudden Club has unlimited possibilities. If the club the lower corridor of Bailey Hall'?'· wheres else will fix everything· burst of activity begil;ming last If this were done a lot of the Bailey shipshape. What is this panacea, March despite the smu-eity of is given the support it deserves, there is no Hall grinds who seldom go south this cure\all? With solemn 'Pro- money? It's the same old story. or west of the chapel might become· nounceme_nts accompanied by a The thrf'.atened raising of prices reason why it should not become in years to acquainted with that medium of In- great. filln~.g of the c'hest and a under the NRA caused pJJematwe formation for which they pay each, dearmg Ol the throat they or!l,CU- · ootivity on the part of buyers and come, one of the outstanding outdoor clubs September and February. late the word INFL.A,.TION. manufacturers to beat that rise. of the east. Those issues of The Concordy What is inflation anyb,ow? Wha~ The purpose of the NRA na.s .in that I have seen so fa:r this year do they mean by it? The general part been defeated. The demand have been of such admirable char- aim of inflation is to create more for mamufactured goods which acter that I should like to see them money.. But why should they wish caused all tb.is manufacturing ac- all. to do this 9 . tivity wa:s. hollow. The ma.J;l in the With the beautiful country that HERBERT HAUSSER, '34. In the New York Times this past street who buys shoes did not yet CONGRATULATIONS ---o--- MUSIC by Rankine Hinman To the local chapter of Delta ,Upsilon fra ternity The Concordiensis extends its hearti- est congratula.tions upon her recent achieve- ment in winning the first leg on the new The privilege of hearing Marcel Berg Cup. More noteworthy is that achieve- Dupre without admission fee is a rare opportunity for Union College ment in view of the fact that Delta Upsilon students; Dupre's position among h d th l b organists corresponds to that of a e argest num er of undergraduates Paderewsky, Rachmaninoff or Hoff- . h k 1 t f 11 f t •t• h man among pianists although his m .er ran s as year o a · ra erm 1es ere, name may not be as familiar to the b h . l · d' 1 h f layman because of the relative in- a num er w lCl IS excee mg y uge . or a frequen{!y with which it is possible Union College fraternity, forty-three. to hear the grea:t organists of the world. Usually affiliated with a Th t f t •t • f cathedral or famous church, these a one ra erm Y can JUmp rom tenth artists devote much of their atten- k . t fi t · t D It U tion to a particular instrument and ran lng 0 rs ln WO years, as .e a p- !lludience, a very ideal musical rela- s'lon d'd · ' d' t' f · tionship but one which renders 1' 1 · , IS an In lea lOll 0 WISe 1nanage- their tours less frequent and, in the ment by those who guide the scholarship mstance of European virtuosos, especially rare outside of the Conti- destinies of that group. That competition nent. for this coveted trophy is keen is clearly To Play Dupre Work Srmday Interesting comparisons uppear shown by the figures for the nineteen years on the program which Dr. Tid- marsh will offer Sunday afternoon, Sunday there were two gra,phs, one · have the money to do any buying. showed the credit trend and the Now that he is working under the other the manufacturing trend. NRA and getting higher wages, Manufacturers were many times and hence just about able to buy , over far in ad:vance of credit activ- a pair of shoes in some cases, the ity. By means of i1;1flation the shoes elude him now more than credit curve will be jacked-up to ever. His pay may soon very equal the curve of manufa:ctures. likely be worth half as much, while In other words, tl;l.e volum;e of the price of shoes will go up co~­ manufactur.ed goods is mounting respondingly and in proportion very rapidly and in .greater bounds with his decreased pay. Currency than credit, wnich is in reality will no doubt fluctuate under In- moving very slowly and not keep- flation. No plan for inflation guar- ing the pace at all. Although there an tees that it will not. What about is plenty of clothes to go around the static wage scales in the co-des there is still not enough money to just completed? Will they be again buy it. By making money cheaper, altered and made flexible? It looks or more plentiful, c·redit will ad- almost as if inflation, instead of va1;1ce, and in that way the S<tle of putting the NRA across with full manufactured goods will mount. (Continued on Page 6) of its existence, a time during which six pa:rticularly for those who attend the Dupre concert. Dupre's Pre!- . times one fraternity or another has gar11er- . ude and Fugue in G minor should be of especial interest, not only he- ed the three legs necessary for iU! retire- cause of its pertinence, but also be- cause it will follow a Bach prelude ment, and these six cups are now held by and fugue. Although he possesses a complete four different fraternity groups. A Berg mastery of the technical resources C of the modern organ and its music, Up rating Of 9 Or better has Seldom been Dupre is profoundly imbued with h · d b f the classics, and above all with the ac 1eve e ore and with thi~ accomplish- works of Baeh, The for·mer's G t ' · d f 1 th t th 193 ~ · minor Prelude and Fugue c~ntains men 111 nun ';Ve ee a e b Winner some extremely difficult pedal work fully dese.rved the honor. when four note;; must be struck at once. The Fugue portion is based upon an English folk song. ANOTHER IMPROVEMENT An unusually heavy vote, the larges.t in the history of student government at Union,. was cast at the class elections yesterday. Whether or not this indicates a revival of interest among students in the affairs of their government is a matter of conjecture, but what is significant is that the Student Council succeeded in getting the whole stu- dent body to vote in the class elections. By conducting the elections in Daily Ass,embly, the only place where the entire student body can be reached, the Student Council brought the elections to the students and, by so do- ing, the Student Council made it possible for many to vote who do not have the interest and would not take the trouble to attend a class meeting and for many others who for one reason o1· another find it impossible to attend a class meeting. The result is that this year for the first time in the history of the college the men who were elected are really the choice of the various classes. Those who remember how inefficiently elections used to be conducted will recall the poll tax which was required of anyone \Who wanted to vote. They will also recall that few students availed themselves of the privilege of buying a ballot. Recalling these and other disagreeable features of the former system of conducting elections, the students cannot fail to r.ealize the vast improvement which has been made this year. This improvement, if nothing else, is ample evidence of the fact that the Student Council is living up to the purpose for which it was created. Dr. Tidmarsh will also play a Bach transcription of Viva:ldi's G major Concerto. Vivaldi's best work is that in which his own instrument, the violin, plays the most important part. Unfortunately, as the work of a virtuoso, some of his music is vitiated by a striving for display. Howev:er he employed a mastery of form in the development of the con- certo, and imbued it with great charm and vitality. The \Peer Gynt Suite\ and Liszt's \Preludes\ complete the program. ---o--- NOTES ON OUR CONTEMPORARIES AMHERST New Squas.lt Courts Another step was recently taken toward improving- Amherst's ath- letic equipment when the contract was let for the Davenport Memor- Ial Squash Building. The building is to cost $75,000, the major part of which will come from the bequest of John Davenport '58 amounting to $50,000. M. I .1'. T~nnis Townament Over one hundred tennis enthus- iasts entered in the annual fall tournament. The contest promises to be the most keenly contested in recent years and will probably last well over a. month. BROOKLYN POLY Ohang.es by Faculty Committee Because of drastic changes put into effect by the faculty committee on curriculum for the coming year, obsolete and unnecessary courses have been eliminated and the num- ber of semester hours necessary for ·graduation, has been lowered. COLUMBIA Requests New Field The Student Board sent an open letter .to the Board of Trustees of the University requesting that Sep- tember 1934 be adopted as· the latest date for actual construction work on a new Intramuval Athletic Field. Fit as a fiddle • • • Telephone service must be kept fit as a fiddle 365 days a year. Thanks to a continuous program of maintenance and replacement, Bell System plant is today more efficient than ever. Constantly improved operating methods provide the swiftest, surest service on re~ cord. Plans devised by telephone men fit the service more and more exactly to subscribers' needs. The result of all this is: the telephone gives you a lot for a little money. BELL SYSTEM SAY \HELLO\ TO MOTHER AND DAD lt---- -RA.TES ARE LOWER AFTER 8,30 1'. M. J .·.~· l I I . j ~ I i Tl den ing hea1 it if any ther and Asia to· b B' of i othE liga ing is tl ras:: sion Ir van pea: has me< Chi: ese Jap mal stea ese W'hE hea are pur T poiJ tior eve low (: Chi noQI sph Sta (: Ua't anc sha roa tior m'a Un< (: Jai N'O· ber ( foo cai Ha pia mil c·ht OVE p·O·I thr Sib Oh: the lyz ( the Ko VI! !~IJ ~Uj So' ( Un str apJ NI me ( bu: JaJ thE ra,i An ( an d:E!J ise Ja: thi tor Ur. Ea in' int Ar. sp1 thl Ur fie Cb wl an ch pr bu Ar an th an \ P! an B< fo so to M be to qt Oil qt w: c·a ti< b€ til ar or. th St Ct w: ia m th te. :in M

lJ w·ar Danger in the Far East An Adicle Prepared by the Labor Research Association ... The fuse that was lighted at Muk- invade and capture the Ohine~:e den o.n September 18, 1931, is burn- ·provin-ce 'Of J·ehol to act as ·a buffer ing itself out and one can expect to state to Manchoiikuo. She is now hear the powde·r magazine to which planning further im oads into China it is attached go up in the air at to c!'eate 1?- buffer teni'tory to Jeh.ol. any minute. W•hen it does blow up In 1\i[ancliuria, Japanes-e arm1es there will be no dod·g1ng the dit:t, have b.een oecupied with driving out and r·ock anywhere on this earth. or killing off the Chine~:·e irregular·s Asia and the Pacific wi:II not be able or ·~ba:Qdits\ and With undermining tel' hold it all. Soviet Russia ih Northern Man- By withdrawing. from the League churia. of Na·tions, Japan. has freed the· Now t-he Japanese are confronted other League members from the ob•. with the pl·oblem of -holding the lig-ations of censuring and disdplin-' rich t·erritory ehe has C'<'~•ptured. ing 'l!m erring fe!low tnember. Japan Danger of attack fr·om the Chinese is therefore unbampe·red by embar- Nii.tioilald£ts is now ·dis·counted. Cbi- rassing, if ineffectual, moral sua- ang has been ·busy <!O·nducting one sion, · futil-e •C!iiDP?Lign 'after another In the face of the continued adc · against the Ohihese workers -and vances of the dhine.se worker and peasants'. army .. 'l'he recent tri- peasant forces, the United States • ~niphs .of tlte 9hln-e.se Communists has come to feel that the more im-, m Fuk1en Pr;ovmce have brought mediate danger to her interests in A~eri?an, J•:;tpanese and Btitish China is from the conquering Chin- shtj:Js mto .C,hmes·e .waters, Thus .the e13e Red Army rather than from t~~ee tradthon~l ll\\als .for do~t~a­ Japan. She has, therefore, ceased hoi). o:f the. Pacrfic_a:pd tll'e partthon making faces at Japan and is, in- of Chma are CUIJ?'bmmg thet-r forces, stead, sending warships to the Chin- .for the time bemg to combat a ese coast cities of Fukien Province, common enemy. where American investments are Japan in Dilemma heavy. Japanese and British ships are in the sazne waters- for similar purposes. Harbingers of War The recent ·developmeiltS Which point toward the imminent culmina. tion in war of the long series of events in the Far East a,re as fol- lows: (1) The continued •triumphs of Chinese workers in the eastem and northern pr-ovfnoes, ·threatening the spheres of interest of the United States, Japan and Great Britain. · Through •h_er. adventures in Man- chtiri'li. and China, Japan finds her- self trying to keep possession of a large secti<lli o.f A:sia bounded on the nodh by a rapidly streng-then- ing Soviet Russia, on the west b:y a sovidi-zed outer MongoHa and on the south by a China steadily com- ing under the {!O!l!r{)! \Of the revolu- tiohi:Hs. Chinese .Soviets dominate six provinces in c·entra·J and' south- ern China ahd are .speedily moving noi:'thwa:r·d and t-owards the se·a. (2) The breakdown of the ·nego- Ua•tlons between the Soviet Union and Japan for the sale of Russia's share· of the Chinese Eastern Rail- road. Becaus.e of Japanese occupa- tion of Manchuri•a and Jehol, a major portion of the road is already under her direct controt (3·) The secret construction by Japan of a strategic railroad in Northern Manchuria up to the Si- berian border. (4) J·apan s!)cr·etly builds a 22- foot ·hard surface ro-ad, flanked by cart roads, from a point north o.f Harbin to the A:rnur River and plans to· complete 2,5{)0 miles of military roads in Northern Man- c·hUria befo.re the ground fr·e-ezes over. Thes•e new means of trans- p·o·rtation will enable Japan to thiow an ar•my across the Trans- Siberian Railroad half way between Chin:a and Vl,adivostock, cut-ting off the Maritime Provin·ce and para- lyzing Soviet operation in Siberia. (5) The development ·by Japan of the port of Lershin in Northern Korea as a commercial rival to Vladivostock, and ~s a oonvenient · landing .place fo.r . her troops and ~uppl~es in -event of a war with 'i:he · SoViet Union. (6) T-he inauguration by the United ~ta.tes of new naval <:on- struction, wit·h ail i:p:itial additional appropriation of $238,CCC,<:CO under NRA, ostensibly to 1loid reemploy- ment. • . · (7) In t'esponse 'to .Mnertca's ship- building program, Admit a! Osumi, Japanese Nava,l Minister, asks for t-he. revision of the London naval rati-os to aillow Japan 7.3 ships to America\s ten. f8) War Minister Arai{i demands an -appr-opriation <l·f $265,000,000 for .d•efensil in exchange for his prom- is·e to oease his operations against Japan's parliamentary system •and the setting up O·f a milit·ary dicta.- torship. Anti~apanese Boy<:ott The commercial war between the United States and Japan in the Far East has been sharpened since the invasion of China and may turn into a milita'ry conflict at any time. American trade in China too-k a spurt with the ·commencement of the anti•Japanese boycott. The United Sta:tes Govetnment took of- fl:ci.al part in this by lending the Chmese gov!lrnment rnoney with which to pur.chase American whe-a.t and cotton. The Ja-panese conquests in M-an- churia an·d J·ehol, however, have practically put 1;1n e:ud· to Ame·rican business in those region~:, where Americ-an -troade had been heavy. and have end·ailgered her tr-ade in the adjacent territories of China and Mongolia The battle f.or hegemony over the Pacific must -of nece~:sity be put to an •actual test of military strength. Bath nations are arming themselves for t·hat test and each is waiting for some slight additional pr·ovocation to jump J:!'t the other's throat. Japan'S\ activities in China and Manchuria since the fan of 1931 can be divided into two distinct stages, .to grab as much ·as she could as quickly •as possi:b1e, and 'lo hold it once she h_ad gra]lbed it. Her con- quest of Manchur-ia, attend·ed as it was by incalcula-ble sJaugMer anc:I c.arn·a.ge, w_as acco·mplished expedi- twusly, resistance from ·the Chinese being weak and unorganized. Attack on Shang.hai The Chines:e retali'ation by a na· tion-wide boycott agaim:t the Jap· anese was an-swered by the atta·ck on Shanghai and the destruction of the Ohinese city of ChapeL The pious protes1s o.f the United St'SLtes 'ahd the na.tions <Jf Europe cul~inating in the Lytt-on Report, wh1·ch put the onus -of the Manchur- ian aff·air directly upon Japan, was met by Japan's withdrawal •from the League of Nations and her d·e- termina:tion to ;;.teer her own c·ourse in China. 'ro protect her puppet state of Manchoukuo, Japan prac·eeded to At ho-me the Japanese are com- -- ---- . -- -· - I THlTI CONCORbiENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1933 Three bating a growing underground working class movement, and in the newly conquered territory on the continent of Asia her armies are havi·ng a tough tas·k in quelling up- risings in Manchoukuo and Korea. Is it any wonder that Ja.pan looks upon the organized militan-t work- ing class a·nd .peasants movement a.s her arch enemy at home and abroad? Japan has therefore ceased to consider the United St•a.tes as the greatest hindrance to her impE'rial ambitions and is concentrating her attention upon the \Red Menace.\ Under the spur of the younger st-atesmen and the mili-tari::ts, Ja.pan has swung about to the o1d strate- gic policy that a good offemive is the bes1 defense. In their speeches and writings, Japanese state£·m.en no longer rest-rict themselves to ex- pounding Japan's need f.or territor- ia-I expansion, to the necessity \Of driving the bandits ·out of Man- choukuo, and of protecting Japan- ese lives and .property -in various pa·rts. of China. They have dis·cov- ered that an Japan's troubles can be tr-aced to \the activiti•es of the Third International in China and Japan,\ It is, the-refore, the Soviet Union which must be crushed if China and Manchmi'a, even Japan itself, is to be made safe for the Japanese. All Civilization at Stake touched by the Chinese Eastern Faculty Member Critidzes . Railway. Whatever trade ongt- AI ·t·I'cle on ''IITar·I\·n Far· Ea·st nates or is carried on in Jehol has l'f little if any dependence upon the By WILSON LEON GODSHALL Having read the article prepared by ihe Labor Research Association e.1tit!ed \War Danger in the Far East,\ certain features thereof seemed worthy of comment and correction. The statement that \the continued triumphs of the Chinese workers in the eastern and northern provinces, threatening the spheres of interest of the United States, Japan and Great Brita:in\ is· specifically Inaccurate and mislead- ing. The United StatE's has never. po.ssessed and does not now hold a sphere of interest in China. Rather, American economic interest pre- va:ils throughout China just as it does throughout France or Ger- many. The American exclusive- ness and monopoly of trade in any part o! China, therefo.r.e, is indE- fensible. It is staoted that \because of Japanese occupation of Man- churia and Jehol, a major portion of the Chinese Eastern Railroad is already under her direct control.\ This is obviously incorrect, no part of Jehol being traversed or even crusade of all true ·believers against Chinese Eastern Railway. The for- mer Peiping-Mukden Railway, a:t lea:,;t 500 mil'es remuved from Chin- ese Eastern Railway, does have contact with Jehol. Again, the fear is expressed that \these new means of transportation will ena]:>Ie Japan to throw a:n army across the Trans-Siberian Rai'lroad half way between China and Vladivos- tock, cutting off the Maritime Province and paralyzing Soviet operations in Siberia.\ Just where one can find a point on \the Trans- Siberian Ra.Uroad half way between China and Vladivostock,\ is of deep geographical interest. The entire Amur Valley Li.ne of the Trans-Siberian Railway between Kaidalovska:ya and Mikolsk-Ussur- iisk is within Siberia, skirting around the Northern section of Keilungkiang Province of Man- ·churia. All of China is south east <at ·least 400 milesl from this rail- way. Probably what is intended is to call attention to the fa-ct that Japan now succeeded in placing herself in such a position as to effectively sever all railway com- munication between Russia (and Western Siberia) and Vladivostock in Eastern Siberia. Exceptionally should be taken to the assertion that \the battle for hegemony over the Pacific must of necessity be put to an actual test of military strength. Both nations are arrniri.g themselves for that test and each is waiting for some slight additional provocation to jump at each others throat.\ Cer- tain alarmists and jingoists in each countt y (Japan and United StatesJ ha:ve been extensively promulgating !Continued on Page 5J THE ACME HOUSE LIN:EN SUPPLY CO., Inc. Rents Linen for all Occasions <You pay for Laundry Work only) 1030 BARRET ST. Phone 4·931 0 The destructive activities of the the poliUcal and economic infidels. As Usual U. S. S. R., through its agency, the In this c1usade Japan feels assmed Communist Intematim1al, ~ay the of .the ·cooperation of Ftanoe, Great Japanes·e, are not directed only at Britain and the United 8-t,ates. Japan and China. The destruction T'he stage is therefore admirably of a.JI civilization at the hands of set for the imvitable alignment of Communism is imminent. Ca-pitalist Imperia1ism against the That is why Viscount Ishii, writ- working class with the odds s·eem- ing in \Foreign Affairs,\ after point- ing to favor the former, mg out the close connection be- The powder magazine is fully tween the Soviet Union and the loaded, the fuse is sputtering at Hs Comintern, calls upon all civilized last inch. Tl:!ere it goes!-unleH C·ountries of the world to join Japan the people of the world, ~he work- in a holy war against the Soviet ers, farmets 3nd p·easants, the So- Union to save modern civiliza.tion. ciaHsts, Communists, and Pacifists, M-r. Tanaka, fo.rl:ner ambassador join in one last despe!a.te effort and to Mosco·w, m-akes the same accusa- turn the cold hose of their horror tions against Kremlin and the Com- and indignation upon thes•e hot- intern and sounds the bugle for a ·heads. At Your Service SANDWICH INN \The Gold Nugget for Groups'' 631 STATE ST. Schenectady's Popular Rendezvous arettes 0£ all the ways • In which tobacco is used the cigarette is the mildest form Y ou know, ever since the Indians found out the pleasure of smoking to- bacco, there have been many ways of enjoying it. But of all the ways in which tobacco is used, the cigarette is the mildest form. Another thing-cigarettes are about the most conve- nient smoke. All you have to do is strike a match. Everything that money can buy and everything that science knows about is used to make Chesterfields. The right home-grown tobaccos-seasoned with just ester enough aromatic Turkish -are blended and cross- blended the Chesterfield way. Then the cigarettes are made right-firm, well- filled. Chesterfield uses the right kind of pure cigarette paper.. There are other goodciga· rettes, of course, but Chest- erfield is the cigarette that's milder, the cigarette that tastes better. Chesterfields satisfy- we ask you to try them. the cigarette that's MILDER. the cigarette· that TASTES BETTER

Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1933 Hobart Gridders Harriers At Vermont ~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ Harriers Will Race . Vermont Tomorrow U nion 9 Without Services of Austin Fox, Favored; to Win From' Geneva Deacons ~- Finch Will Play Center in\ Place of Captain .Fox Who , Sprained His Leg Yesterday ' B~ MILTON A. BERGER WhPn the Union va·rsity footbaH team takEf the field against Hobart I tomou ow it will be without the ~ervlces of Captain Amtin Fox, CEll· ter who ,:uffered a ,:prain and :;light h('l~lDtiage of the l€g in practicl Thur·,:day. It is expteted, howrvu. that he will be able to ~tal t m the Am·hn ~t ga·mc hu .e ,t we?·k !I c,m tnmonow. Jack F.mch wtll tal{e Fox's place against .the Deacons. Phying with a line-up. somew):mt revamped becuu.;e of sllght H1JUr- ies suffered by a few of the regu- lars in the Wesleyan game Satur- day, the Garnet var:otty foot~all squad had little difficulty runnmg up touchdowns against the frosh team in a practice game Tuesday. The varsity starting team consis.ted of Van \Valdron and Kenc.lnck, ends· Lambeth and Gulnac, tackles; Kearns and Little, guards: Fox center· with Dain, Rotunda, DiL~l!o, an'd Chrysler behind the line. Resting aftrr his fine hard- wm kin.: performance in Satui day·~ tilt, Halph :c;cmcrad, quarterback, called signals but did not take part in the actual scrimmage. The sight of the field general drawing b~ck from the huddlE' out of the line of acti0'1 was strikingly 1 emi- niSC'Prtl of thP twelve man team suggested by Coach Andy Kerr of Colgate in his addre3s at the Block \C\ dinner last March. Vu.n \\·aldr()n to Play End Because it ::;e,>:ned that Charles Krull would ~trll bP on the injured list S8turda\', when Un.ion meets Hobmt. Coa;h Hatfield experiment- t>d wrth Van \\.'aldron in the end J.l\\ltwn. The ·sophomore tackll-, tallr·st m;:..n on the squad, shows po!t•ntial;ty nf dcvelopmg into a relictble dl'fensi ve wingman and will ro;ee action in that capacity against the Deae .. ns pr·oba~ly .rn K<'ndriC'k s placf'. Krull, h1\ m- jUI ie,.; ht·al<·d, rC'por ted for pi ,rcticP 'Vt>clnt>sd:l\' and will undoubtE'dly ,.;h c t on the other slde of Uw line Probable Line-ups for Union-Hobart Contest UNION HOBART LE Waldron ........... Morris LT LambE.th ........ Ehrenfeld LG Kea·rns ........... Tuturro C Finch ............. Gilman RG Moulton ......... Mulligan RT Dyal ............. Shepard RE KruH . . . . . . . . . . . . Whitney QB SEmerad .......... Nichols l,HB DiLal'lo ............ Baker RHB Rotunda ........... Curtin FB Ch1 ysler ............. Ri0h Yearling Encounter Gridders Varsity Team Displays Streng·th On Defensive But Fails in Its Att:lcl{ on Varsity Gridmen By DANIEL B. WOHL Coach Nels Nitchman's frosh football team had Its first fast scrimmage of the year when it matched against the varsity on I Tuesday. The starting team con- ~isted of Sloatman and Doyle, ends~ Gatchell, Campbell, and Angle al- ternating at tackle; Potts and Fa- gan, guards; Ba•Jton, center: with !lughc:;, Liffiton, Englebardt, and Haskell comprising the backfield. For the mo~t part the team showed up well on the dPfense by keeping the varsity from gaining several times. However the players did not make a good ~howing on the off<'nSE', sevet·al of theii· plays failing completely. The outdand- ing men on the lint> werE' Potts, Fagan, Angle, and C\mpbell. ThPse boy>\ made a fine showing defens- ively by their sure tackling: I iff- iton distinguished himself m th\ backfield, getting off for two runs of fiftePn or twenty yards. When the backfield has lea I nrd to 1 un hal der and lower they will be much \:ore effective. · S<•cond TPam Plays :!\lohawl• Sphool The Garnet Eleven Around the Block u Eight Men to Take Field' in Opening Encounter .Against Vermont's Veteran Runners l The Union cross country team left at 1:30 this afternoon -foil Bur- Ungton, Vermont, where they will open their season wi'th a meet against the University of Vermont. Prospects have greatly improved :within this week. La.pe has been running ih first place, with Kaz- . mierezak cUpping off a fast second'. Eight men will take the field against Vermont tomorrow. Nestle, ·who reported late has been run- . ning third. Mirate looks like a , good .fourth. Gottschalk's leg seems :to have improved enough to war- , rant a good race from him. Brock- web! has been cutting seconds off · • his former time in .the four and one half mile course. The only ·sophomores making the trip are North and Bastedo, both veterans :of last year's freshman squad. vermont Has Vete1oans The Union team has shown good ·balance in all trials this week. In .an informail timing Wednesday, five , men ra:n the three mile course un- der sixteen minutes. Vermont has five veterans, Cap- tain Cliff Harwood, W. Dustan ·White, Carl Rogers, John Woodruff and Charles Howe. These men will probably start with Winston Twitchell and Donald Suitor com- pleting the team. The last named ·were on last year's fres.hman team. • The 1932 team defeated Amherst, Williams, and Connecticut State, and !oat to Middlebury. ·-- - 0·-·-·-- Wyatt Finds Frosh Lacrosse 1 Prospects Freshmen Hope to Defeat Sophomore Team in Annual Lacrosse Contest This Fall ThC' tacklf' bPr tl:s still pre:,Pnt P pn•bl<•m. \ith La!l bPth. Gurnac. Agiu:<, llyal, and Fmch all makm:~ a \tl onu bid to OCCUp\' th•'Se pOSI- tions o;:; thP line. L'atest indic~­ tione have L£Roy Dyal and Bill Lamb..th filling these gaps. Moul· tun and Kearns are facing a bitte1 battle with Little and Crane for the guard posts. The former seem slated to start the Hobart game as thev did last week's encounter. C:.q;tain Fox's work in the eent.er of thP line has \een wholly satis- factc>rv as usua.l. What the status <'f l 'hi\p n·tin IR in the backfiPld !'('- mains undeeidPd. The slippery brokt•n field 1 unn<'r and passer will mn\t likf'l)· b,o hc·ld in rt>se-rve fm thP quart<'! bad:: post. On Monday the second tcn.m scrimmaged with the Mohawk D:1y school football team. The yParl- ings performed poorly on the de-.' fense, letting the opposing ba:~ks llll!lllliillllllllllllllilllllllliiiiiiiEIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllll get through several t1mes for mce • 11 Seeded Players Advance In Fall Tennis Tourney The fall practice of lacrosse un- der Assistant Coach F'red Wyatt,'32, has shown up several fine players in the freshmaon class. J. Smith and H. Tompkins, experienced men, are shaping up well, together with E. Fraser, Knox, Marselle, Mutch, a sophomore, and Parker. itotunda Scor••s on Long Run The practice gume Tuesda;.· de~­ nn>trat,•d thl' fact that thP Vfllsrty still nPP<ls a little polishing on the pass defen\P. DiLa!h1 and Dain, howPvPr, mad\ two or three fine in- tt•rl'eptions, which along wit:1 the Garnet's showin<:>; against Wes!Pyan in this dPpar tment of the game help to allay any fPars Coach Hat- liPid mav have in this direction. Jiggrl , Rotunda'\ t~ckling and ha.ll-canying again\t the frosh gav•· wnr nmg that this pony back will C'\ll n a great deal of respect from the 0Jange and Purple griddPrs by the 1inw the final whL\tll' blows In tlw la.tte1 pa1t of the fray m•r1inst thP yearlings, Jiggs brok<' kcH well bcycnd midfield and, cleVPrly Pll•dlng tacklers whc knifl·d through hi\ intPJference r·n Prd along the sidelines for a touchdown. HoLart Eru.y \'ietim f()r Amh·l'rst l.a:<t R'lttitd1y Hobart tonk a 3!< to 7 trouncing ftorn Amherst. Thr f.r,nl Jeff~ ~cnnrl all their touC'h· dow11s on runnin;r plays. After Am- herst f<Ubstitutes had brl'n sent ir bk in the game, Croff, of Hobart. sen! Nl \lncl tossPcl a pass to Morri· s rn for U1e Pxtra point. Coach F: nnris Kr ·•us ha:< rhanged the r;rnPva t·•am s tacklecl this wee]{, Dan EhrPnfPlc\, who tips the bearr at 21U pound,, and Len Sht>pard at 1110 pounds, replacing Gentry and McElvf'in. l\ flashy broken field runner and deadly tackl~r. Jamf·S \Red\ Cur- tin, a sophomore halfback, is al- W:Jys a source of worry to defen· sive backfields. \Marsh\ Rich. a n'al triplP-threat who was respon· sible for the improved Hobart team la~t fall. is equally dangerous at kicking, passing, and running. Tu· tuno at guard, lilH• thP All-Ameri- can Metzgar of Notre Dame, i\ small but aggressive. \Vhile it may not duplicate the 4.fl to fl victory of last year thf' Union team should win without too much difficulty. ----0---- HOBART GAME NOTICE All students attending the Hobart fcotball game tomonow will ·be re· quired to present their red athl~tic car·d!' along with the special game ticket. gains. The frosh, however, showed • II up fair on the attack, scoring on :: PARRY AND THRU· ST : runs by Haskell. . 11 11 In preparation for the game with 11 11 the Middlebury frosh next Satur- II by II day Coach Nitchman will hold : II about three scrimmages next week Ill CAPTAIN D'ARTAGNAN :: and will also drill his charges 11 a again on fundamentals. II II ---0 • . • F It H ld . T ·s ••••••••••••11•a•lil••n~••••••••••••••••••••n•••••••• acu y o mg enm And Horseshoe Tourneys The annual faculty horseshoe toumamPnt ha:; already begun. Cummins has defea·ted Hall and Denndt has defeatPd Clark. ThPre are seventeen members of thf' faculty entered including Bacon, Bennett, Burkett, Chillrud, Clark, :·ummins, Fox, Haefner, Hall, Ham- lin, Hurd, LarrabE'e, Studer, Thatch- er, Wold, Leonard, and Hansen. The ru!Ps follow: 1. Best two out of three g-ames. 2 Clay courts south of the gymn\ls- iu·m are to be used. 3. Results are to turned in to thl' gymnasium as soon as games are played. 4. The tournament is to be finished by NovE'mber· 11th. Amidst the clashing of foils and the swacking of sabers, the fencing class has statted its season's activity under the able tutelage of Mr. Kurt von Forstmeyer, of the Modern Language department. About fifty followers of the sport glorified by the Three Musketeers and Cyrano de Bergerac are enthusiastically practicing for what they hope will be a strenuous campaign thi,; year. :Mr. von Forstmeyer and his students are malting an earnest attempt to advance the cause of fencing at Union that it will be recognized in the college as the minor sport in the near future. Especially in the South and ?.Hddle West has the play of the foils become extremely popular. The University of South Carolina con- tributed to the interest by sponsoring tournaments 'in 1931 and 1932. Rollins College of Winter Park, Florida, and Georgia Tech sent their teams. on the 10ad this spring for a series of matches. Rollins has met among others the L\nivensity of Florida, South Carolina, William and Mary College, Princeton, Georgetown and the Navy. All the colleges of the Big Ten are represented by fencing teams, several of them award- ing the participants minor letters. The big four of the Union tennis tournaments, Jack Moffett, Sam Keats, AI Warner and Johnny Rob- erts, have so far encountered no particular difficulty in their matches. Moffett easily won his match with Flora, which ended with the score at 6-1, 6-2; Keats inflicted a;n even more overwhelm- ing defeat on Lindabury, beating him by a score of 6-1, 6-0. Warner won his match with Baxter, 6-1, 7-5. Griswold, a dark horse, gave a very good account of himself, first beating Marshal by 6-1. 6-2,and then trimming Andy Poggenpohl by 2-6, 6-4, 6-4. Severa:! more matches are to be played before the deadline of the first round is reached tomor- row. The scores of the matches played early this week are: The varsity candidates headed by Captain Foote, including Burd, El- wyn, Knapp, Maurer, Nelson, Rob- inson, Taylor and Williams are again getting the feel of the stick after the summer layoff. Frosh Hope to Beat Sophs The freshmen are confident of re- peating last year's feat in defeating the sophomores because <Jf the small number of sophomores out for the sport. If sufficient interest is shown, according to Wyatt, a ga:me will be staged between the juniors and seni()rs. The winners of these two intra-mural games will meet for the championship of the college. These games will not be played, however, unless the candidates re- port regularly, since unconditioned players will not be sent upon the field even in intra-mural games. ---0---- Inter frat e 1' nit y Track Meet to Be Run Oct. 18 ~- Seleet your opponentB from thf' above list. Games not played bv November 11th will be counted as losses. S. Final positiOn will be determined on a percentage basis. Having fencf'd sincf' he was seven years old, Mr. Forstmeyer easily lJUilifies to coach any big cullege squad. While a student at gymnasia in Vienna and Freistadt and the University of Vienna, he participatpd in several of the famed student duels, escaping with a barely nntieeable scar on his nose. He later coached various fencing clubs und achievl'd some renown when he won an amateur tourna- ment in Austria. Sinl:'e his arrha! at Union a revival has taken place in the ranlts of the swordsmt>n with larger ntunbers of freshmen turning out t>ach yt ar. G,ymnasium credit is given to those who report regularly. Inexperienced men meet in the fencing room of the gymnasium Tuesdays and Thursdays. Those who are more conv1w~ant with the use of the foils report on Wednesdays and Fri- days. The men are first taught stance and movement. Later they a1·e taught the prui.s of the foil and its use, lunges, thrusts and par- l'iPs. Students of approximately equal ability are matched against each other in informal bouts. lVlr. Forstmeyer is patient and untir- ing in his teaching ()f the indh·idual members of the class. It has bEen the custom to l'nd the year by a tournament held in conjmtetion with the inti·amW'al b()xing and wrestling championship matches. J. T. Cohen defeated M. Horwitz, 6-1, 6-1. Wold won his match with S!obod, 6-1, 6-1. Lifset received a default from Hallenbeck, Finch l<Jst to Frazer, 6-1, 5-7, 6-2. Rosen was victorious over Barna by a: score of 6-3, 7-9, 6-4. Lindabury won from Rosen by 6-4, 6-5. W,el!s was· de- feated by Hinman by a score of 6\4• 6-2. Wassmansdorf defeated Fwelich by 4-6, 6-3, 4-3. H .Fried- The annual interfraternity track man suffered at the hands of Sarad, meet will be held on Tuesday and to the tune of 6-0, 6-1. Schwebel Wednesday, October 18 and 19, ac- defeated R. H. Smith, 2-6, 6-0, 8-6. cording to an announcement made Shepard lost to Poggenpohl, 2-6, by Coach Ketz yesterday. 6-4, 6-4, who was in turn beaten by Psi Upsilon was the winner last Griswold. Ackerman was victorious year with 42 points. Phi Gamma over Katzberg by a score of 6-8,' Delta was second and Alpha Delta 6-4, 8-6. Brandow was defeated by Phi was third with 23 and 21% TPnnis TournamPnt The annual faculty fall tPnnis tnurn9m<'nt is now undPr wr>y. Dnh· has already defl'ated Smith, and Palermo has defeated both Burkett 1nd Mavor. Th<'r<' are thirte<'n l'ntries in<'llJ(l· !ng Burkett, Clark, Cummins, Doty. \'ox. LarrabPe, Mavor, Palermn. Ro· ianski, Smith, Thatcher, Wold, and 11oseley. The rules follow; 1. Contestants choose their own courts. 2. Best two out of three sets. 3. Results must be turned in to the gymnasium after the games are played. 4. The tournament ls to be finished by November 11th. All games they unplayed will be C()Unted as !OSSE'S. 5. Each contestant select'l his op· ponent till he has played every- one in the tournament. \>. Each contestant should play at least two gam~s per week. FENCING NOTICE All sophomores, juniors, and sen- iors who are interested in taking fencing this year again and who wish to take par.t in prospective fencing competitions with fencing teams of other colleg-es are request- ~d to report to J\i[r. Kurt von Forst- '\:\leyer on Wednesdays or Fridays from three to five in the fencing room of the gymnasium. Schuman, 6-3, 6-1. points respectively. Touch Football Tom·ney Ends First Round Today ----· Sigma Chi had little difficulty overcoming Alpha Phi Delta, 26 to 7 and Psi Upsilon won from Phi Sigma Delta in a tight contest, 13 to 4 as the first round of the touch football tournament neared its close. Last year Fred Knapp, '35, won the college championship from Phi Gamma Delta disastmusly William Hewitt, '32, the defending champion. Others who are active in defeated l?hi Sigma Kappa, 34 to 0, the sport are Merton :Zubres, Albert Morrison, Virgil Sager. Richard Tuesday, the sec'ond day of the in- Diamond, Stuart Rogers, Rankine Hinman, Michael Tytko, Robert Bain, terfraternjty touch football contest. Sigma Phi, scheduled to play John Hall, Mario Favoriti. and a large number of freshmen. Knapp. Kappa Sigma the· same day request- Zubres, and Morrison excel with the foils while Bain, Rogers, and Morri- ed a postwnement. The postpone- son are particularly adept in handling the sabers. Evidently impressed ment was granted providing the by reports of Mr. Forstmeyer's work here, an unofficial Williams college game is played some time this week. fencing club sent a letter to the local group suggesting a home .and The Neutrals received a default home series of matches. The Union squad was all prepared to leave .for from Chi Psi, and Delta Upsilon Williarru;town when they received a communication from the Williams received a default from Alpha Mu manager, cancelling the match because of some irregularities the·re. The Sigma on Wednesday. The Neutrals and Delta Upsilon will meet on fact that the Williams team which had prev.iously engaged in matches Monday. Phi Delta Theta meets wi.th Dartmouth, West Point, and Harvard desired ·-a contest with the Theta Nu Epsilon, and Delta Pi Nu Union group speaks well for the type of fencing taught here. There is meets Kappa Nu today in the final · games of the first round. The win- plenty of equipment .in the. gymnasium for a large number of fencers, ners of this week's games will meet enough to cover any rmmedrate need. Matches will be sought this season Monday and Tuesday f<Jr the play- with Williams and any other eastern colleges which encourage this sfort. offs in tne second round. All freshmen are eligible to enter this meet. The only deviation from last year's schedule will be the elimination of the 440-yard dash. The 220-yard dash, the high jump, the pole vault, and the 60-yard high hurdles will go on as usual. The rules and regulations and 51-n entry blank will appear in a later issue of The Concordiensis. No C1·oss Coup. try Meet The interfraternity cross country meet will not be held this year be- cause so few of the freshman class have shown enough interest in long dista;nce running. If, however, enough students desire ·a cross country meet, the athletic depart- ment will be willing to sponsor it, \nd the meet will take place the • ast week ih October or the first .veek in November. ---o----- VARSITY GOLF NOTICE Because of the death of i:h~ cap- tain-elect of the golf tean:\, all mem- bers of last year's team who re- ceived an award are requested to report at the Director of Athletics' office Friday, October 13, at 12:15 p. m. to elect a successor. ! I :I t ,\ i I I '~ i• i ' ! I I r 1\ f l \ l1 ~ ~ . I '\ ' j v !I t t, a 1: r' I.\ VI d h ~ .. VI I ::: I 0 .i () i I ~ i: I! I ' t :!i 1 I 'I f f ~ '

rs ed en le, a od In m- '32, ers by El- are re- the out a the the re- the 18 ack ac- ade last a elta 1)., the The ross I' it, the first cap- re- d to /i I ! I t ~! ·l I I I I r J I i. ( I I I ! i I i I :I t \· \ \ I 1,._ i• i ' ! , I l I I ,. I .. f l ( ! i1 ~· . . ~ I .'I, !I t ~~ .t. .i i ~ THE CONGORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBE.R 6, 1933 Daniel Imrie of '06 Instrumental Club Starts Professor Smith Presents Delta Upsilon Wins Leg Oin New ·. Rehearsing Modern Music Geology Lectures to Public : Addresses Students Professor E. S. C. Smith of the Berg Cup With Average of 9. 034 For the first time since the Berg Cup; was put into competition for fratem,ities in 1914, Delta Upsilon won temporary possession of that award .. Because Phi Sigma Kappa won their third le·g on the last cu,p in !1.93·2, a IJieW cup. Wall put into competition starting this year. For the thiTd year in succession Kappa Nu has achieved the highest actual averag~· of all .fraternities and is the only group with a t3 mark. Delta Upsilon .gains the ·distinc-tion of earning the first leg on the seventh cup to b.e p.ut into cGmpetitlon. The first six Berg Cups wer.e won as follows: Delta J;'lhi, 2; Aolpha Gamma Phi (now Delta Chi),, ~; Fy·ramid Club,. 1; and Phi Sigma Kappa, 1. AVERAGES FOR' BERG CUP FOR YEAR 1!132-1933 No. of Actua1 Fraternity Members Aver. 1st Delta Upsilon 41 8.034 2n.d Kappa Nu . . . . . . . 22 8.185 No. Plus.1 Aver. for men 8.5% 8.5% &over &over 10 Inter- fra- Cup ternity Aver. Rank 9.034 t2 8:885 t3 Glen Falls Alumnus Te-lls of Significance of Activi·ties And Traditions of College At its first rehearsal Wednesday Geology Department is giving a night the Jnstt·umental Club show-: series of lectures on ge0logy open ed pr,omise of becoming one of the to the public, at tb,e Nott Terrace leading mudical organizations of High School, on Tuesday even•ings. the campus, under its new direc- Professor Smith is presenting tor, Mr. William C. Pike, of AI- these lectures under the auspices of bany. Although the instr·umenta- the Education Committee of the tion was far fnJm complete, it is Mohawk Valley Hiking Club. In his Daniel F. Imrie, Union 19C6, expected that the second rehearsal introductory add~·ess Tuesday eve- , spoKe v'\e-dnesaay at tne 1 eg\ilal will be much belter altended. Many ning, he spoke of the manner in ·uauy assemmy on the spirit 01 the instruments, especial·IY brass and which the materials of the earth's mt<nestea amumus. wood winds are needed to fill out crust are broken down to produce lntloaucea. by .ur. Ellezy as \one· the orchestra. soils, and on the action of atmos- u1 my ms.t sons,\ J.\1!1. luJ!le, wno The Instrumental Club started pheric agents. He wiU give six. .ives m Glens .!! a.l1s, told o1 ·his in-. work on .. Misslssippi\ a descrip- more lectures and will conclude the Len~>e love 101 tne college and hi\ tive suite by l•'erdie Grofe, the. com- series with a visit to the New York 1nter est in all that the cuJlege does. poser of \Grand Canyon Suite\ State Museum in Albany. .d.e gave a bl'iel h1sto1y -o1 Umon, .md Pe1:cy Grainger's \Country the .s1gniticance ot her traditions, Gar·dem;\. At the next rehearsal, and wnat they me:ant to him. Jchedctled for Wednesday night at At tl;J.e time Mr. lmne was here, l :30 in Silliman Hall, the orchestra L.Jmon was jus·t 1ec-oveung 110111 a will play some college songs a.r- ;;eJrous rtnancJal Cllbis 01 a 1ew mnged by Mr. Pilte. If a sufficient . yea1s p1 evwu:>·. At tHat titne it wab number of students turns out for· •Elt 4!·e busmess of Iunning 1he the next rehearsal a schedule of dChool was too unprofitable and the ..!Oncerts and appearances with the Lrustees· ae·cided to {!lose the d-om s. Glee Club will be drawn up, accord- rhe students pw.tested. sttenuouol:~> ing to James Horan, '34, manager . omning t,he h us tees and· tacul.ty in of the Musical Clubs. · t>ltigy, and to such an extent .that · outside aid was se.cur ed and the •Ong upward climb begun. \A man NOTICE The American Society of CivH Engineers will meet Tuesday night at .8:90 o'clock in the Engineering Bmldmg. AFTER VISIT UNION'S OLD STAND-BY Five. Our Work and Prices Are Compefiti.ve GARNET TAILOR 305 Uberty St. Tel. 4-0122 GAME And Enjoy 3rd Alpha Delta Ph,i . . 24 7 .. 991 4th Phi Sigma, DeLta .. 17 8.046 5th Delta Chi .•...... 27 7,756 6th Alpha Phi Delta .. 22 7.852 7th Phi Sigma Kappa,. 20 7.727 8th Beta Theta Pi .... 26 7.89 ,, 7 6 5 6 5 6 3 4 5 1. .7 .6. .5 .6 .5 .6 .3 .4 .5 .2 .2 .4 .5 .3 .2 .3 .2 .1 .2 .1 8:591 t2 8.546 t2 8.356 t1 8.352 t1 8.327 tl 8.19 t1 · w.hc is dying and is willing to live d·ese.x ves c1 euit.'' J::l.e then co.mmented on Union's gifts to the wo1ld in the i01 m 01 uis-tinguish.ed graduates and, the .act tnat Uni-on, ·always a pi0nee1, ..vould continue to be a pioneer in, Lhe rleld ot education. Old Union Rooter \Uncle. Billy\ Landreth Speaks <Continued from Page 1-l :Jr six fraternities, and they had =tuarters in town . Class .spirit was much stronger r1fty years ago. Each class had a baseball team which fought hard Ior the college championship. The ·sophomores and freshmen used to h1we plenty of scraps, too, without ~ny supervision or aid from the football team. Every spring the freshmen trit>d to burn Algebra in effigy. The sophomores, on the other hand did their best to protect the mat·hematical bogy. A DELICIOUS HOT SANDWICH AMID PLEASANT SURROUNDINGS (Next to the High School) 9th Theta Delta Chi .. 17 7.756 lOth Psi Ups.ilon ...... 24 7.563 11th Delta Pi Nu ...... 12 7.815 12th Theta Nu Epsilon .. 18 7.807 13th Kappa Alpha . . . . 24 7.499 14th Alpha Mu Sigma .. 17 7.372 15th Delta Phi ........ 32 7.479 16th Sigma Chi ....... 22 7.567 17th Kappa Sigma . . . . 18 7.384 18th Phi Gamma Delta. 24 7.479 19th Phi Delta Theta .. 35 7.471 20th Lambda Chi Alpha 19 7.322 21st Chi Psi ........... 24 7.282 22nd Key & Blade Club 7 7.34 2 2 4 5 3 2 3 2 1 2 i (les-s than ten members, so cannot compete) 23rd Sigma Phi . . . . . .. 20 7.131 Total No. frat men 530 Average for all fraternities .... '1.641 (23) Average for all neutrals ....... 7.772 (311) All men's average ............. '1.706 Previous winners of the Berg Cup follow: 8.156 t1 8.063 -1 8:015 t1 8.007 tl 7.899 -1 7.872 -2 7.779 -l 7.767 -1 7.684 -2 7.679 -1 7.571 -2 7.522 -2 7.382 -2 7.34 -2 7.131 -3 September 1914 ...........................•..•..... Pyramid Club September 1915 ..............................•..... Pyramid Club September 1916 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Delta Phi September 1917 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Delta Phi September 1918 ................•....................... Delta Phi September 1919 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Beta Theta Pi September 1920 .................................... P:y.ramid Club September 1921 ................. , . Alpha Gamma Phi (Delta Chi) September 1922 ............................... Alpha Gamma Phi September l923 ............................... Alpha Gamma Phi February 1924 ................................. Alpha Gamma Phi September 1924 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alpha Gamma Phi February 1925 . . . . . . . . . . . . .. • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alpha Gamma Phi September 1925 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Alpha Gamma Phi February 1926 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alpha Gamma Phi September 1926 .......................... , . . . . Alpha Gamma Phi February 1927 ................................. Alpha Gamma Phi September 1927 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . Delta Pi Nu February 1928 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Delta Phi June 1928 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alpha Mu Sigma February 1929 ................................... Phi Sigma Delta September 1929 ............ - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Delta Phi February 1930 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Delta Phi September 1930 ................................. Alpha Phi Delta February 1931 .................................. Phi Sigma Kappa September 1931 .. . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . Phi Sigma Kappa September 1932 . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . Phi Sigma Kappa Mr. Imrie's s>On ~xpects to registe1 ner e next talL Dr. Jillle1 y, a't the close of the ad· dress, pointing ·to the speaker, ..J.Uoted to the undergraduates, \Gc ,nou and do likewise.\ Criticizes the Article On War Danger in Far East. Became Sanitary EnginPer After graduating from Union, Mr. Landreth, a civil engineer, went to. (Continued from Page 3) Mexico, to supervise the construe- this view. In the first place, how- tion of a railroad After three years, ever, it is not clear that either he returned to Schenectady and be- must possess hegemony of the Pa- came interested in Sanitary engi- ciflc and that ''both nations are neering, an almost unheard-of sub- arming themselves for that test.' ~ ject at that time. Since then he Probably neither country is so un-· has been closely associated with wise and misguided as to seriously Union College. believe in the practicality of such Mr. Landreth lives today at 1078 a project. Gillespie street, within sight of the Another startling piece -of mlsin- clllmp.us. Whenever he hears sig- forma:tion reposes in the sentence nals called on the football field or ·thus the three traditional rivals sees a man going up to bat, \Uncle .:or domination of the Pacific and Billy\ walks over to the bleachers. the partition of China are combin- He can recognize a good football mg theil' forces, for the time being ·team when he sees one. to combat a common enemy. At \Talte the Wesleyan game,\ sug- no time has the United States been gested \Uncle Billy.\ \We sho.uld the rival of any one for the \parti- have won that, becaJuse the boys tion of C:Qina.\ To the contrlllry, had spirit, !tnd that's what counts.\ between 1895 and 1900 the U. S., through the activities of Secretary of State Hay probably was the chief obstacle to parti1ioning of ..Jhina by Great Britain, France, Germany, and Russia. The Amer- lC!l:n Far Eastern Policy has been devoted to the preservation of the . territorial and administrative in- tegrity of China. The precise meaning of the as- . sertion that \at home the Japanese .1.re combating a growing under- ground working class movement, .md in the newly conquered terri- Lory on the continent of Asia: her ·armies are having a tough task in quelling uprisings in Manchoukuo and Korea\ is ambiguous. What is this \growing unde1ground working class movement\? The so-called Labor Research Association apparently is less con- .:Jerned with scientific resea;rch than with the manufacture of propa- ganda. The type of readers to which it appeals undoubtedly will be . thoroughly impressed with the title. Howevar, one's confidence in the quality of investigatory study un- derlying conclusions propounded is shaken by the reference to the Homespuns •'-============================-.!li\Comintern\ which is said to be so closely connected with the Soviet have a way of their own - a simple rug- 'Alma Mater' was Saved From Godshall Is Officer in Debate Union. Possibly what is meant is M t • I ·the Kuomintang, the officia,l poUt- Waste :Basket of Ludlow, '56 .. e~. mg 'lie d at Elndr~ Today ical party <>f China. Alto~ether, this material illustrates the sort of mat- ter to be scrutinized with extreme Doctor W. Leon Godshall, Profes- two years studying law, and was sor of Political Science, will attend the Ninth ~nnual Meeting of the ad,q:titted to the New York bar in New York State Debating Confer- 1859; ence today at Elmira College, El- At 21, Fit~ Hugh began his ca- mira, New Yor.k. Doctor Godshall reer as ~ jotir~alist and autl:!or, is at P~~sent secretary·treasurer of which continued until his early the organization. · death in the fall of 1870. DIP'ing The conference is composed of his last thirteen years Ludlow debate ·coaches from approximately wrote \Little Brothers,\ \Little . twenty of the leading colleges and Briggs and I,\ \Due South. universities of New York. Its pur- Sketches,\ and a poem, \Too Late.\ pose is to promote interest and ac- He is also accredited with a series tive _Participation in intercol\egiate of papers on \The Decimal System and mtramural debating. Meetings of Weights and Measures,\ \The are held semi-annually. (Continued from Page 1) care • 'lege, Hobart College, Keuka Col- lege, Niagara Universi.ty, College of New Rochelle, New York State College for Teachers, St. Bonaven- ture College, St. Lawrence Univer- sity, and Syracuse University. The standards and morale of de- bating in New York State have been greatly elevated since the ~ounding of this organization ac- cording to Dr. Godshall. ' ST. REGIS PHARMACY Heart of the Continent,\ pub\lshed The last meeting was held at in 1870 by Hurd and Houghton, Syraeuse University. Dr. Godshall N.Y., and Sampson Low and Sons; and Mr. Samuel M. Heson, Assist- London. . ant Professor of Political Science, Charles R. Carey, Prop. 600 Union Street PHONE 4-1123 Mr. Frank W. Little '58, wrote: represented Un~on. Other colleges \Fit:~; Hugh Ludlow, when. in col- and universities represented were lege, was inte:p.aely homely, with a as follows: Alfred Unive·rsity, Col- very large mouth an,d he wo.re s:pec. gate University, Elmira College · tacles·, which was an unusual thing l'frF;o;rd;h;a;;m;;;;U;n;i;v;e~rs;i~i;;y;,~H~-~a;m~i~lt;o;n~C;o;l:;;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g at that time. He was one of th,e brightest men I ever knew, a re- markable conversationalist, full of wit and humor, with a wm1derful flow of language/' Mr. Little state·s further:- \He was genial and gen· erous but had no sense of 'llleum and tuum.• He did not hesitate to appropriate anyone's clothes, yet lie · would have wU~ingly lent hia oWll S!lothes, but ):le never had any tQ. · lend. He w~ mo.d,est, yet self~co.n· fldent and with ~is buoyant teml)er- a~ent and brilUant wi_t. II:Iade fr1ends and, I think, J.J.O enemies.\ TH:E CAZETTE PRINTERS gedness - rich colorings - the of always looking cnsp habit fit - that men have come to appreciate. Homespuns have the habit with us of going out as fas as they come in. An excellent group has just arrived. $2Sup VI NICK'S MEN'S SHOP Inc. HENRY'S BARBER SHOP BARBERING and MANICURING 4 N. Y. C. Arcade CLEANING- PRESSING and SHOE REPAIRING ONE DAY SERVICE ANY DAY IN THE WEEK AT BALL·s WE CALL and DELIVER - TELEPHONE 2-3456 Bellinger Paint Co. ARTHUR TRIGG, Prop. Paints, Oils, Varnishes, Glass Brushes and Wall Paper 126 BROADWAY FREE f A Shave, Haircut and Shampoo to UNION PLAYER scoring first Touchdown ACME BARBER SHOP 509 Union Street Enjoy Yourself at RICHARDS Among Intimate Surroundings BILLIARDS and BOWLING 506 State Street Now, more than evet>, it pays to buy a STETSON $5 Schenectady's largest showing at L C1rll..llf,t..l'..mr,IJIIIAHit ~fil~,f'(.~f!JfW.'VIIItln 447•451 STATE ST. Your STETSON HAT ean take it THAT'S what value means in a hat. Your Stetson has the stuff in it to stand a beating-open car, rough weather, anything you hand it. And all the time it keeps smiling-keeps that smarl>- ness of line and beauty of color which makes you ad- mire a Stetson. New Stetson styles are being shown now. Ask par- ticularly to see the new Suede Finish and color mixtures. at tire better stor~B Jol1n B. Stetso• C::ompany Many of tht1 facts co:p;cerning Ludlow that are known today cQme from. the 3,000 word sketch of him ably written by hie. J>ister, Helen Lu~o~ ~-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-.-=-=-=~;;;;-=-=-=-=-=~ 467 State St.-Near Clinton I!;:;;;=======.!J

Six THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1933 - Turner Is Elected President of 1934 Random Observations net. Since his sophomore ~ear he I Plan Prestige Revival of !US been a member of the Student , ~ouncil. He has played both ft esh- l ; Frosh Smoker Success .nan and var~ity football, freshman basketball 'l.nd lacrosse. - Stanley Mower, Beta Theta Pi, (Continued from Page 1) is on the Lacrosse vat,nty team. He scholar. He is a holder of a Stein- .ms also played inter-class lacrosse metz Scholarship, a member of the .mel freshman football. varsity football, basketball and C. Richard Davis, Phi Delta baseball teams, and has served on fheta, is on on the var·sity football the Student Council since his so ph- team. Last year he was vtce-pr e~n­ omme year. In his second year he dent of his class. He played fresh- was secretary of the class and se~- man football and basketball in his retary of the Student Body. In h1s ,it st year. (Continued fram Page 2J Many plans for making the \Y\ force, may serve to kill the whole one of the Jeadmg campus organi- issue and throw us into gt eate1 zttions were brought forth at a re- <.listt ess with the whole NRA rna- cent meeting of theY-cabinet. That' chinery crumbling over our heads group was in favor of dealing with in a welter of newly made code~ various social problems an the and minimum wage scales. campus and to follow the general What is money? Gold. It is a trend of similar groups in other medium, note the wot'd medium, of colleges; that is, to leave religious 1 exchange. It is a convenient means discussions out of the mganiza- to help us get wheat out of the t!On's meetings. wheat lleld:o> into our stomachs. In For the past few years the Union Lydia a few thousand or so years chaptec of the \Y\ has been rather ago the wily inhabttants of that inacti:ve. It has fallen from its hith- rountry, tt 1s said, hit upon the erto ra:nking with the leading col- brignt idea of simplifying the pro- lege \Y's\ of the east. Under the cesses of trade and commerce by leadership of Bill Brockwehl, '35, using ~;old as a common denom- the cabinet has been striving to re- inator. gain its lost prestige. What has happened as the cen- turies have passed? Gold no longer civilization has so advanced and made life so secure that no one need ever starve, and sometimes it seems ever die. Yet when there is a flood in China· thousands of Chin- ese die af starvation while in the Gnited States we burn wheat and kill hogs by the thousands to de- ctease the surplus. Gold 'has be- come a necessity af life. Gold no longer represents wheat, but gold. It is now the constant while -wheat has become the variable. The tables have turned. Gold feeds man, not bread. We have a population of about 120 millions of pe0ple. We have great wealths of natmal resources. We have muscle and br<..l;in. We have energy and sun. Everything is in our favor for existence. Yet the pants maker in New York, be- sides not ownh\g a pair of tlie pants he makes, has no bread while the granaries are choking full; and the fat mer who lets his wheat rot in the fields, walks around with a naked behind because he does not own a pair of pants. DEWITT'S LUNCH Opposite New City Hall 118 Jay Street first year he was on the F1eshman Raymond McDowell, Lambda Chi football basketball and baseball Alpha, plays varstty basltetball and teams. 'At the end of his f.reshman baseball. Last year he was pt esi- year he won the Oppenheim Pnze dent of the Sophomore Class, and g 1 ven to the freshma~ m the A: B. m hi::; first year played ft eshman courses who has attamed the hrgh- tootball. basketball and ba:oeball. est average in the principal sub- Besides North, the Sophomore jects of his course. . . Clas::l elected the following: Chester Charles Dain, Beta Theta Pt, ts Di Lalla, vice-prestdent; Van Ant- on the varsity football and baseball wet p Waldron, secretaty, and teams. He also played on the fresh- J use ph Mtlano, treasun·r. man football and baseball teams. Robert C. North, Delta Upsilon, John Moffett, Phi Delta Theta, is i:,; set ving his :oecond term as a on the varsity basketball and ten- Student Councilman. He is the nis teams. Last year he was elec- holder of the R. C. Alexander ted class treasurer. He played on Prize Scholarship and won the the freshman basltetball team in Van Orden Prize given to the fresh- his first year. man who writeci the best e:osay on Smolit'l' a Success stands for meat and potatoes. Gold ThE' annual freshman smoker stnncts tor gold and has become a was a success; considering that it commodity of human neE'd like is the only event of its kind held cloth 01 - spice. But gold is of no fo1 the entire first-year class, the value to anyone except as a rued- success of the functi0n remains un- ium of exchange frn· the necessities doubted That is but one of the of life. Suppose monE'y was never nuny projects that the \Y\ has invE'nted. Iron would then be far planned for the ensuing .year. more valuable than gold. Gold is ~~~-~~T~H (-~·~-2. ~ ~ M~ LL ' ............... Donald B. Moulton, Delta Up- an assigned subject. He ha::l been silon, is both scholar and athlete. on the Dean's List. He has maintained a first grade Chester Di Lalla, Alpha Phi average for his first two ~ears. He Delta, is a member of the> Student T~e next regular me~tmg of the, worth nothing, except perhaps for cabmet wtll be. at .2. o clock Mon-, o!l1aments. A bushel of wheat has day afternoon m Stillman Hall. :J.IWa\'S bE'en worth a bushel of wheat. It feeds a man so many days and gwes him so much strPngth. The wheat is the con- stant, while gold is the variant. is a member of the Jumor Board Council and the varsity football Donald Liffiton is quarterback on of the Concordiensis, president of team. Last year he played fresh- the freshman football team. He is the French Club, and is on the man football and basketball. affiliated with the Phi Delta Theta varsity football and track teams. Joseph Milano, Delta Upsilon, is Ftaternity and comes from Albany. Last year he was Class Historian on the varsity football team. Last Paul Higgins, also affiliatE'd with and in his first year he played year he wa\ on the fte:ohman foot- the Phi Delta Theta Frater·nity, is freshman football. bull and basketball teams ft om Schenectady. John Gain, Phi Delta Theta:, Other officers E'iected by the Alan Van Wert comes from Sche- played freshman basketball in his Freshman Class ate: Paul Higgins, nectady and is affiliated with the first year. vice-ptestdent: Alan \'an \Vett. 1 Phi Delta Theta Fraternity. Duncan McNab, Beta Theta Pi, secretaty; E!hot Frazer, ttem.ll!er, 1 Paul JacquC't is a candidate for is Editor-in-Chief of the 1935 Gar·- and Paul Jacquet, cla~s his tot ian. 1 the stage staff of the Mountebanks. THE FINEST TOBACCOS THE FINEST WORKMANSHIP These days, smokers pay more at- tention to their cigarettes. N atu- rally they're talking about the way Luckiesare made. Always so round, so firm and fully packed. Brimful of the choicest Turkish and Domestic tobaccos-v:ith- out loose ends. That's why Luckie-s draw easily, burn evenly and are so mild-so smooth. '~ i t\s to as t e d '' FOR THROAT PROTECTION-FOR BETTER TASTE The picture is different now from what it was in ancient Lydia. The nrc•es:o<ities of life abound in gteatet quantities than ever before. If thell• is a drought in Australia the Austrnlians do not starve because of the shortage of wheat. Thet e b plenty of it elsewhere and plenty, of ~h•P\ to get it to them. Modet n \ Cop!figlot 1 03~ The Amcr trnn 'Jobacco Company. BANQUETS CLUB DINNERS WEDDING PARTIES DAV·E MEYERHOFF AND HIS FAMOUS ORCHESTRA Every Saturday Night-9 P. M. to I A.M. No cover charge Complete Restaurant Service On Saratoga Road at Ballston Tel. Ballston 200 LUCK I ES PLEA •I ' Vc lV F 11 H: Gl w~ he ial Or m· F~ Fr D1 ag so er Stl gr m in th m. to tu w: Fl M ul st W• fo fr is• fe th gr hl D m St w PI ni it do h et p. Eo( rE tl Cl e I• v i s e t ( j. <l t I t <

,j Flinn A'Ppoints Commjttee to Consider Freshman Regulations ' i I ,, ', ,~, \ \ ~,._ •• ,j. ~'~~_.,I I '.: Prominent Undergraduates Express Differ- mg Opinions oi1 CLASS OFFICES Vol LVII No.6 UN:EON COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1933 Many Hear Dupre's Fine Organ Recital In Memorial Chapel Shame full , Improvements for Students', Opinions Divided College Theater Are On Continuance of Offices Planned for Season ~~~--~~ Half of Student Body Present In Audience; Music Love1·s Travel Fal' To Concert The turnout of students for the fi:rst home game of the season was nothing short of disgracefuL It is estimated that no more than four hun- dred undergraduates attend- ed the game. Usually four hundred-fifty students attend the Mountebanks' produc- tions. ies, or some other form of diversion had more appeal than what turned out to be a Casts for Fall Productions to Ten Students Go On 'Reporter Interviews Students Asking Them for Opinions Regarding Class Offices SONATA IMPROVISED Glee Club Manager Reports a · Considerable Profit; May Sponsor Lilie Events Later good football game. As usual, the freshmen will probably be blamed for not attending the game. Probably there was a good. number of them absent, but there was also a large per- centage of the other three classes conspicuous by its ab- Be Announced as Soon as Try-ol:!-ts Have Been Ended ELIGIBILITIES DEBATED Treasury Balance Will Cover Cost of Switchboard; New Stylized Stage Materials Outers' First Hike Eleven-mile Trip Filled With Amusing Incidents; Club Follows Cn:.•els:, Cross l<'ields Under the leadership of Freder- ick Wyatt, '32, 10 members of the --- SEVEN EXPRESS VIEWS --- Consensus of Opinion for the Abolition of Underclass Offices for Lack of Duties --- By RANKINE RINMA:N Nearly half of the student body was in the l·arge audience which heard Marcel Dupre on the Memor- ial Chapel organ Saturday night. Organists of the 0apitol district and music lovers from as far as Glens Falls came to hear the great French organist, former teacher of Dr. Tidmarsh. James Horan, man- ager of the Glee C1ub, which spon- sored the concert, reports a consid~ erable profit even though Union students were admitted free. The great success of the concert, which marked the first appearance of an internationally famous· organist in this district in some time·, may make it possible for the Glee Club to fos•ter a similar event in the fu- ture. Probably the ~eason for such a small attendance was the fact that the opposition was known to be weak. Such an excuse, for not going to the game is no excuse at all. With many of the best players on the squad injured, with the captain out, and for sev- eral other reasons, the team needed just as much student support as it could possibly get. But evidently the talk- sence. Little can be done to make an undergraduate attend football games, but it would seem that the Student Body would have enough pride in its team, and its institution to make it feel as though go- ing to our home games is a matter of honor. h · · · Union College Outing Club walked Elsewhere in this issue there ap- Many tee meal Improvementtl m pears an editorial· explaining the the Mountebanks' theater are being 11 miles over the Rotterdam hills feeling of The Concordlensls in re- planned this year. A newly devel- on their nrst hiKe l:lunaay a!ter- gard to the status of class offices, oped lighting system will be made noon. especially for the three under possible by the accession of a new Leaving South College at 2:30 classes. In keeping with The Con- switchboard, which wa.s designed o'clOCK ,we hikers pou11dea pave- cordiensis' p,olicy of acting as a and will be built by students under ments acro:;s ;:;chenectaay and up medium for the expression of stu- the direction of John White, '35, the nver road to LocK. J:!;1ght. tier e dent opinion on current matters, :stage electrician. Additional fia,ts, tney turned le1.t, cl!lnbeu over a there appears' below seven state- and new parallels' and steps, for use uage, and tollowed a high ten.sion ments given to a reporter yesterday in stylized settings such as those povver lme across the country to the on this, affair. used in \Hamlet\ have been pur- oanks or the Plotter Kill. Those .selected to give opinions chased to complete the set bought 'J.'Ile tust casualty occurred when were chosen as those who could be last year. Roger ::>herman, '3b, descending one expected to give honest, unbiased Following the concert a reception was given in Silliman Hall by the Faculty Woman's Club for Mr. and Mrs. Dupre. Members of the fac- ulty, visiting mus1cians, and a few students and friends of the college were invited. Flinn Names Five \Vhat Do You Think ToRulesCommittee Of Us? Asks Bishop The new switchboard, which has banK too hurriedly, supped mto a opinions when they were asked the received the approval of lighting pool and created a gt eat disturb- question, \Do you favor the aboli- engineers of the General Electric. ance With his splashmg. 'J.'ut mng tion of all class offices with the ex- Company, will be portable in de- upstream the group tolloweu the ception of those of the Senior Class sign, making it convenient to take l:'Jotter Kill to tne second falls. Au- and the Junior Prom Committee?\ on road tours, a.s well as being tumn leaves ot red and gold !armed James Horan, '34, Theta Delta more fire-proof and efficient than a thick carpet unuer!oot; the water Chi: I think it is a good idea to the present one which was built was so low that rocks jutted out o1 abolish fres'hman and sophomore five years ago. The cost of these the stream bead and caused many class officers because there is noth- new features will be taken from conjectures nom two geology stu- ing for them to do.\ the Mountebanks' treasury balance dents who could not agree. Fred Waterman, '35, Beta Theta of last year, which Mr. Milton M, Pi: \There is no need for the fresh- From the opening Bach \Sin- fonia\ in its noble dignity, even from the very presence of the art- ist as he cross,ed the chancel, we felt a spiritual force that imbued the whole program; we have heard great virtuosos• ,before, but never have we been moved in the manner Dupre effected us. He brc>Ught to mind the great Ce.sar Franck as he suffused each succeeding number with a depth of soul that defies ex- pression; masterful as was' his tech- nique we were seldom conscious of The Concordiensis Interview Reveals Two Already Favor Change in Frosh Discipline Sunday Chapel Speaker De- scribes His Struggles, Ex- periences in Finding God it. Daniel F. Flinn II, president of the Student Council announced yes- terday the names of the student councilmen whom he had appointed to the committee to consider a change in the freshman rules. Mem- bers of that committee include, Harry Parker, '34, chairman; Paul Wassmansdorf, '34, Edward Hutton, '34, William Waldron, '35, and Guy Griswold, '36. \What do you young men think of the clergy? Do you think that we are a class set aside by our- selves?,\ asked Bishop Charles Fiske, Bishop of Central New York, in his :;ermon in the Sunday Chapel services, held in Memorial Chapel. He chose for his topic, \The Human Side of Jesus Christ's Life.\ Music Highly Religious Some of his listeners may have desired less religious music; to us his program constituted an experi- ence that roused all that ap- proaches the divine in man's inner o;elf and, as one critic has already remarked, transcended surface fea- tures of religion and distinctions of creed. Two of the men appointed on this committee, Hutton and Gris- wold, were interviewed last week by Concordiensis staff reporters, and their opinions on the question of freshman rules were published. These statements are reprinted be- low: The portions of his \Stations of the Cross\ which Mr. Dupre played not only displayed a vivid realism ·n detail but succeeded in convey- ing that far mo~:e important ele- ment, the dominant, contemplative mood of the \Station.\ The good taste with which Jesus's ag<Onizing but quiet suffering upon the Cross• was portrayed was particularly ef- fective in contrast to the harsh, un- feeling hatred of the preceding sta- tion, \Jesus Is Nailed on the Cross.\ A masterful use of J}auses was noticeable throughout the evening, but above all in the first two of the \Stations.\ In this distinctly mod- em musk, full of unusual harmon- Ies and effects, Dupre showed to what a great extent contemporary imp! eAsionist music may be deeply s1gniflcant and 'beautiful. The most impressive work of the evening was easily the Sonata '-hich Mr. Dupre improvised upon themes submitted by T. Jrrederic~ C and'lyn of State Teachers College, Al]Jany, and Mrs. Arthur H. Rieh- m d.son of the Schenectady Gazette; the third movement was particular- ly interesting to students at it was· bJsed upon the chorus of the Alma ''ater. The absoiute perfection of the piece and total absence of ostentation made it an Integral part of the program. It was a m,arvelous illu.stration of the extent to which a musician may become imbued with his music. Interprets Franck The key-note of the evening was the Symphonic Interlude from Cesar Franck's \Redemption. In its expression of the sufferings of men, the call for Salvation, an·d the sublime promise, Dup\'e displayed his affinity to the French master and his complete accord with him. The close of the number bore a marked resemblance to the con- cluding portion of the \Grande Piece Symphonique.\ The spiritual character of the program was found in a different vein in the lovely, simple Cantabile from Wid- or's Seventh Symphony. Edward Hutton, '34, captain of varsity hockey and member of Delta Phi fraternity: \1 do not think they are all worth retaining.\ Guy Griswold, '36, Phi Gamma Delta, member of the Student Coup,- cil: \I ~avor the proposals set forth l?Y the Concordiensis, however 1 feel that discipline should not be carried out along browbeating prln- ciple.s.\ French Club to Meet Tonight Program for Year Announted The French Club will hold its first meE'ting tqnight 'at 8:00 o'clock ,n Sillim~n Hall. This first meeting- will be devoted to an introduction Jf the new officers, who are: Presi- dent, Donald Moulton. '35: vice· president, Burton DeLack, '36: sec- retary, A. Warner, '36; treasurer, Charles Reid, '36. The meeting will have the character of a get-together at which former members will have an opportunity to meet the new member·s, and renew acquaintance with their friends of last year, Prof. Zabuesnic, the faculty ad- visor of the club, and the president have planned a series of very in- teresting programs for the meet- ings. Among these will be a spe- cial Christmas program, a number of talks by men of the ¥icinity who are conversant with the customs and mannerisms of the French, and a piano recital of French music by Charles Reid, the club pianist One of the projects of the club is the introduction of a series of short skits and dialogues to be given by the members in French. This series has a ,dual aim, as it is intended both to entertain the audience, and to afford to the participants an ex- cellent opportunity of improving the fluency and accuracy of their French. The French Club will entertain next spring, as in the past, with a dan·ce. This occasion is the climax of the social activities of the club. His sermon dealt mainly with an example, using the experiences of his own life. He stated that he had quite a struggle, but upon comple- tion of his work the ultimate joy derived was immense. \I am a natural-born sceptic, and am not sorry to say so. 1 am a natural-born agnostic. I believed in an anthropomorphic God. I am a sinner and a saint, an ardent Cath- olic, yet I love my Protestant relig- ion. I am dogmatic and an enthus- iastic seeker of God. You will un- doubtedly be surprised at my state- ment, but it is true.\ Early Writers Barbarians \Why can't men look for God?,\ he continued. \Why don't men want to know more about Christ?\ He said he was astonished to discover that the earlier chroniclers were men of barbarious tribes and that their conception of God was far dif- ferent than the general opinion ex- pressed today. The Scriptures, he said, were written by all kinds of men: preachers, doctors, world- weo~ry mPfl Jte~~l)Pl'S, Qu~inPSS men~ and men of various other occupa- tions. The chapters of the BiblE' are composed of myth, legend, folk- lore, poetry, philosophy, history, and prose, together with opinion:;; of the authors and general comment. \I noticed that there were things at fault In nature as well as in man,\ he continued. \If there wPre a will and an intelligence behind the universe, then there is the same thing in the universe as there is in me-Personality. There must be something similar in God, plus love. This doesn't mean that we have any definite proof of a God. But, if there is not a God, from whence came all the finest things in us? Love, pity, passion for justice, ap- (Continued on Page 4) -----()-·----- GLEE CLUB REHEARSAL The Glee Club is holding three re- hearsals this week in Hanna Hall. The first is -a part rehearsal for ten- ors between 1:00 and 1:30 tomorrow afternoon and the regular rehearsal will be held from 3:30 until 5:00. On Thursday and Friday there will be part rehearsals for baritones and basses between 1:00 and 1:30 P. M, --~-o INSTRUMENTAL CLUB Enzer, graduate manager of the Climb HiUs man class officers because they are theater reports to be $266. From the second falls, Walter chosen too soon after the opening Casts Not Yet Annow1ced Williams, '36, led the way up a of the college year and consequent- steep bank and across fields toward ly the members of the yearling Casts for the two Morality plays, the Rotterdam road. As darkness class have no chance to discover \Everyman and \The Second fell Wyatt called a :;hort halt in an the worthy men of their class.'' S hepherd's Play,'' have not as yet • · J k D h ' d d . th apple orchard. ac re er, 36, Chi Psi: \Since been announce pen mg e inves- l:<'rom a high ridge the whole of meetings of the three under classes tigation of the eligibility of those Schenectady was vi~ible, etched in are never held, there is absolutely selected to fill parts. The casts, bl' k' l' ht Th Jub no reason for retention of any clal!s however. Wl 'll ,be announced early streal\s of m mg 1g s. e c f. d h 'll 'd t the r1'ver a fiCers except those of the Senior this week on the college bulletin came own a 1 Sl e 0 · Class and the Junior Prom Com- board'. road ,crossed the Mohawk on the d mittee.\ Students l ·n,tere\ted t'n ·anv of the catwalk of Lock Eight, an re- J k A i '35 ~ J d s h t d th ugh ac rg~>s ngPr, , Delta Up- <tage-crafts such as pai'nti'ng, !1'ght- turne to c enec a Y ro , . silon: \I believe that a president ing, or carpentry, are asked to re- Scotia. and a secretary should be retained port to Tennyson Baldwin, Delta Regular Hikes Planned for each class· in case a necessity Phi, Sidney D. Marltman, room 1. Cl b 1 t h Jd should ever arise when a class 'I1'ddle Sect1'on South College, or The Outing u P ans 0 0 \' h'k 1 1 th u h the fall should have, to act as a body; other :0.1r, Edward L. Carroll, director. 1 es regu ar Y ro g h h months, followed this winter by t an t at I think class officers are Candidates to Report skiing trips. The next outing is unnecessary.'' h d I d f t • 1 k s d Jack Wittke, '35, Phi Gamma Freshmen and sophomores who sc e u e or ,wo o c oc un ay wish to become candidates for busi· afternoon. Delta: \I think that class officers ness manager or house manager of Communication:; have already have not much to do, but the pres- che Ivlountebanks at·e requested to been received from similar clubs in tige attached toward holding a I · th · class office warrants their continu- \eport to William Draper, Chi Psi, Yale and Vassar expressmg e1r ation.\ Douglas Smith, Alpha Delta Phi, or interest and. desire to co-operate . Mr. Enzer at Silliman Hall. . with the Umon organization. Wilkinson Cory, '35, Psi Upsilon: \I can see absolutely no reason for Ancient Custom of Race Rackets Fostered For Wars Says Dr. Coffin. The p1actice of I ace-1 acluts is one of the mo~t lucrative as well as mo:;t ancient declmed Dr Han i, son C Coffin, pi ofe\'>OJ of G1 erk at Union College in hi\ addr e,;:; befoH the Men'e Club of the Temple Gate8 of Heaven last ni!!-'ht \Race mongers\ have always used the ,n,or,mal jcalou~r, t h~.,t man u.<- ually has for anothn in comparabl< economic cizcum~tances. to fan it into race hatJEd:; lor thEir own political 01 economic advantage The 1ace rack.E:t being practkrd tr- da.y is no diff€1 ent eHentia.!ly, he said, from that practiced ttibH than 2.CCC yea.rs a'gO by the Jews to d1 ivr out \gentileE;\ than the campaign of the Greeks to drive out \bnbaJ· ians\ a tcr m they applied to all men who could not epeak Greek nc mattu how cultivated th<y were, such as the Persians and Egypt- ians; than the Roman practice of disc,rediting the ideas of Greeks and other for€igners as \fo1 eign fooli!•h· ness;\ and so on thJcugh the mod- ern Chtif'iian era when t\he nation- alistic tace hatreds d~veloped into reJig.ious hatreds of the Catholics and the Protestants and both of these against non-C'hr ietian people, St:ill more recently, sa,id Dr, Coffin, the race racket has aligned itself again on na,lionali'etic lines, fo-r the g,overnments supp9ried them for purposes of war. Origin of Race Hatreds In his develonment of r,ace ha- treds Dr, Coffin gave a schoJa,rly smvey of the develapme·nil: of na- tionalistic hatreds in Euro·pe such as those of the English and French, French and Itali,an, etc. to a group of people speaking more or lc~s the fame language in Eu- rcpe Not even the i'O-called ·pm.ity ot thr Jrwish race can ~!and the left of Pcience for intermarriage wlth gentilee, the in fill! a !ion of ·ot'he1 na, tionalities as the Jews migrated flom !'ountry to !'OUntry, has madE the Jewl~h rae<' as ,h·l\!\Iog~aou\ m charactfl '8>' oth<>r racial g.rou,p~ Dr. Coffin cited many authoritiEs to disprove t,he \Not·dic\ and >imilat race-!\li'periority theor ie:; and gave conclusive evidence that gEniu;; can- not be brought about by legi~lating it throug·h eugenics oT olhei m·Eam Geniu~. he said, will alwa~s be a milacle a.nd will ~how itself in vari- ous pa1ts of the world in a capri· ciou~ manner. paying no attEntion to what kind of 1ace it happtne to choose for its appe·arance. Human Natur£> MisusP Race mangus, continued Dr. Cof- fin have made g1 eat use of the term \human nature\ as if men had the same nature all over the world', Thio h'as been demonstrated many times to be a false concepti,on ,he said. What we should pay more at- tention to is not \human nature\ but \human nmtul'e,\ for the· envi- ronmental influences play a great part in the development nf human spirit and it is ,hum•an characte,r not physical attributes, which de- termine ho·w good a citiz,en one is going to be. The la~t time that !'here was a \pure race\ was in the S,tone A:ge, Since then the mixture of mces has been so great 1 ace~ have practically lost their identity, .>uch action as, abolishing them.'' Jolm Roberts, '34, Neutral: \Class offices are sinecures and are not necessary.'' ----o---- Dr. Godshall Repol'ts on State Debating Meeting ---- Dr. W. Leon Godshall, Professor of Political Science, reported on the Ninth Annual Meeting of The New York State Debating Conference which he attended at the meeting of the Debating Club, Monday night. \(n pre~enting a re~\•me of the meeting, Dr. Godshall spoke of the decision. of the Conference to con- tinue an experiment begun last year, namely to deviate fr,om the regular formal debate, and substi- tute one political convention. In this type, political policies are adopted on current problems. A committee presented approxi- mately 25 debatable questions, from which the Conference ~elected the following; ~a-tiona! Recove1 y Ad- ministration, United States Na\:,r Treaty Strength, System of Liquor Control, Recognition of Russia, and The Use of Leisure Time. The last will be the subject of the first for- mal debate of Union versus New York State College for Teachers in Albany on November 23. Dr. Godshall also outlined a tenta- tive schedule of debates which can- not be published at this time. Union will meet many of the outstanding teams of New York State, and the schedule will include several radio debates. Daily As<:f:'m bly Speakers --- romonow- Professor George n Kellogg-\Language Study in General Education.\ Ln the eerie ·delights of the po,pu- lar Scherzo from Mendelssohn's \A Midl!ummer Night's Dream\ Mr. Dupre's execution wa.s of an amaz- ing lightness one would have be- lieved impossible upon the organ, a, strong contrast to the strong sweep of the Polster \Finale\ which f-ol- lowed it. SPANISH CLUB MEETS The first meeting of the Spanish Club will be held tonight at 7:30, under the sponsorship of Mr. GomezDuran. The meeting will be held in Silliman Hall. Th;e Instrumental Club will meet for rehearsal tomorrow night at 7:30 o'clock in Silliman Hall. All men who play instruments, regard- less of previous experience, are re- quested to bring their instruments and music stands to the rehearsal. Dr. Coffin maintained th•at there was no suc·h thing today as a bio· logically \pure race,\ unless one qualified the definition of \pure\ for political purposes. The Aryan race, as such, he said means nothing, if applied for a nationalistic group, for most of Euro1=1e has some Aryan ante,cedants,, He sa,id the term might be c'Orrectly appUed possibly Pointing out that as far hack as Plato's time in Ancient Greece eugenics was advocated for devel- opment of a greater 1ace, Dr. Cof- fin presented a. series of authorities in evidence for his statement that eugenics can aid us on-ly in brNd· ing men for certain .phyf'ical char- acteristics, such as we get in animal (Continued on Page 41 Thursday-Julius J. Sitney- Friday-Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh. Saturday-Professor Leonard C. Jones. ruesday--ProfesRor Harold A. Larrabee-\Why Study Phil- osophy?\

;i I Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1933 <nvnrv I pany of his guest. Or, if that newcomer \ I ~-, ~~t·rnl!t. Jl wis:hes to se~ the game with a group of his ir.:---\\':\'\\':\=--=-:--~~,..=.:c-=--=--:!!!~--=-~=-=----: L' EASY ON THE EYES •I!, lJ .4J .41 friends it is more than ever impossibl.e to 1 . . . . . _ secure seats together. \A Causa l'ersa Parole Assai'' FouNDED 1876 The reason for the move made by the De- , partment of Athletics is perfectly clear; it' facilitates checking on the gate r.eceipts and Affiliated With Pi Delta Epsilon The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Frid~ys throughout the college year, except durmg Christmas and spring reces.se.s. ------.::--- 1 it gives an accurate count of the nmnber of paid admissions and of the number of stu- dents attending the game. Furthermore, it is supposed to prevent passing of student tickets to outsidees by those undergraduates \Vho do not exp-ect to attend the game. . 000 In Cambridge. they call them Harvard Square students, and here in Schenectady th;ey ought bo be known as Union Avenue students. We refer to the mob of unruly townies who made the lives of sev- -eral football ushers miserwble dur- . ing the Hobart game. More police attention for these Undesirables, : and les's zeal devoted to the loca:! ten-year-ulds, would: help matters. * 000 There's an ancient crack that · · goeS>: \It's· pretty, but is· it art?\ Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 En;tel'ed at the Schenectady P-ost Off-ice as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editol\ial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Address all busines.; communications to Arthur J. Katzberg, Kappa Nu House, Union -~allege, Schenectady N. Y. All other commumcatlons to George R. Cory, Jr., Psi Upsilon House, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD George R. Cory, Jr ........ , .. , .. Editor-in-Chief Arthur J. Katzberg .......... Business Manager C. William Huntley., ......... Managing Editor Robert H. Smith .......... , .. , .... News Editor Arnold J. Friedman .............. Sports Editor Prince E. Oleson ................ Feature Editor C. Hathaway M. Berger JUNIOR BOARD D. Moulton J. Woolman- R. Diamond ELilVIINATE THE LOCAL RIFF-RAFF Yet, the current s:vstem does not prevent students from aequiring tickets from PRO- FESSOR WITTNER'S office and passing them to their friends along with their stu- . dent athletic tickets. When a crowd of ple are going th1~ough the gate, those in charge there cannot watch every person and every ticket shuwn to them. Consequently no improvement has been made on that score. As for checking on the gate receipts, it is but a matter eyf simple accounting to count cash receipts, the number of $L65 tickets sold,. and the number of $1.10 ticl(ets sold and then asct>rb.in the number of reserved tickets given in exchange for student ath- letic tickets by subtmcting the total reached above from the whole number of reserved seat Uckets issued. Since the desired end does not seem to have been attained, why not restore the old system and eliminate the inconvenience II forced upon the students last week? ~-=-=-==-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-===========-~ T~is cartoon cou1es to The Concordiensis from the pen .of \Mel a student at one ~f the leading universities, who has been drawing for collegiate publications for several years. If the campus reaction to t!J.is funovation is favorable, The Concordiensis will continue to print one of these cartoons weekly. FARRAGO And one Httle indd:ent over near the west sid'e-line on Saturday, . doubtless quite unintentional, brought tq mind: ''It isn't pretty, but it is Hobart.\ 000 Union is surely the only college which can boast a songleader and a bandleader who operate together . . . and back-to-back! * * 000 Colgate has a new play during which seven ·of the eleven. players handle the ball. At that, we sus- pect their acquaintance with the pig's cuticle is only a passing one. * * * 000 The University of Arkansas has an uncle and his ,nephew on its footbal·l team. The queer angle be- ing that the ne.phew, Paul Rucker, is first-string end,. while his uncle AI Harriss is just a reserve quarter. * \ ·• 000 No more hilarious college yarn has ever been spun, to our knowl- edge, than Edward Hope's \She Loves Me Not.\ It concerns a girl night-club dancer who takes refuge from Jersey gangsters and police in, of all places., .a Princeton dormi- tory, where she rapidly involves a score of assorted deans, gunmen, movie cameramen, students, and hometown sweethearts in a series of completely giggly escapades. * * That the demonstration gi Yen to the spec- tators of the Union- Hobart football game Saturday by the ruffians and riff-1·aff of Schenectady was atrocious stands undoubt- ABOLISH CLASS ELECTIONS ca~~~rt;Y reactions to M. Dupre's ~{~~~.g ~~ec~dg~~d~~as:;~e~f g~~~~ 000 Why Union department heads keep sane with difficulty: (excerpt from a letter from the Administra- tion Building) \Will you please list below the courses in your depart- ment which are to be conducted as courses.\ Yes, brethren, there's a word missin.g. ed. It was merely a repetition of what has Th s . P t t' t d t f th lar enthusiasm to support the art been going 011 at football and baseball games Now that the class elections are over we haJ! ~ft:~ 1 ~~e ~:ird 1 Pn~~b~~- 0 e ~~e:\~:~o~f ~~~~~s:.tr?r1!~s:cfmp~~ for .\ears perhaps another one of those tra- may well pause to consider the value of hold- -Full-fledged music-lovers-espec- smit 0 idonersn.of AnM.d,D 1 u 1 .kperemaurcehdoefcidmed 0 1~ .v • h 1 t\ It · 1 1 · 1 h ci·ally faculty membe·rt>-cast tn,eir d- ditions of Union College about which no one mg t ese e ec Ions. IS on y ogica t at critique in praises only. ern poetry and modern painting, ff . h ld b 1 t d t f t · o c d modern music is barren of mean- is apparently doing anything:, o Icel'S s ou e e ec e o per orm cer am - ne oncor y columnist fell ing for anyone not conversant with - <J f · b t \t · d' asleep twice during said concert, It is clearly seen that the student ushers unctiOns, u 1 reqmres no extraor mary Another column writer of the fa- the forms and theory of the school. * * \ f b t . t t\ th t f f mous sheet was well on his way A \cult of unintelligibility\ has hired by the Department of Athletics are powers 0 0 serva JOn ° 110 Ice a ew 0 toward the snoring stage when a risen in modern music as well as in unable to cope with the situation for which the class officers who are now elected do so. dirty jab in the rib brought him ~~~pro~~a~;sla~ii~go1~r~epa:i;· ali~: 000 In the spring Union has an In- ning Club (the baseball team), so in winter why not an Outing Club, especially with as intrepid an author-explorer as Bob \Farthest\ North to lead the way? It · t f h ' · ff' · t ff' back to consciousness. they are Pal \d to handle. The ui·chi·ns who IS no a case o avmg- me lCien o wers; c spiration, the inspiration of a Wag- . . th f th ff\ h . - oncordy rnusiCl columnist was ner creating the Ring Cycle, the stand around the fence during the game are . It lS ra er a case o e o Jeers avmg no \very agreeably surprised.\ inspiration of a Tschaikowsky com- * .. a blight upon our community and take a keen functions to perform. The practice of elect- -;~~zX:cf~~~~~;;r~~~~:t:~~~~ ~~~~~ f~: ~~:~es o:;~t~!i~ingG~~ delight in l\Uining om• shrubbery and bother- ing class officers is a relic of a bygone day chiefs over their mouths. One be treated; but the modern com- d tl h I II accident reported on the front IJ'OS'eT wou11i rruther b-re·ruth sop,h1slti- '.fHOSE TENNIS COURT BLUES (Dedicated to the New Footwear Regulations) ing those who pay for the right to watch an age, 1e age w en c asses were sma ' steps. ca.ticm and jntenectual content 1Illto OUI • athleti'c contests. SI'nce I't se\\ms I'mpos- when class spirit was strong, and when the 0 . . f th d b his worfkst than emlio,dy modern ~lid'e All God's chillun havem't got shoes With corrugated soles, \' pm10ns o · e secon num er: 1n a lo y and. meaningful Cl'eation. sible to keep the local gentry from \crash- business of student government was carried Fragments from \The Stations of To us it appears that music and b th · 1 N th t t d t th c \ b ..- poetry and painting have sunk to ing\ our games under the present mode of on Y e vanous c asses. ow a s u en e ross Y ...... Dupre. dealing with trivialities, with the aovernment no lono·er oro-anized on the class -\Deep religious feeling through- artists emotional life rather than discipline, why not call upon the Schenectady \ ' · \ o out\ * * • \I suffered, truly suf- with the glories of a nation, the Instead dey got those tennis co11rt blues, P olice to 2'ive us nrotection in the matter? basis, is carried on-and very ably so-by fered through that number\ \' • • opening up of a continent, or the ~ \' th St d t C '! 1 ff' d · d \The religious atmosphere that lives of great men. The artist must Keep ofrt Keep off/ our oourt8 e:v- temive I When these ruffians finally do get into e u en ounci • c ass 0 leers, epr!ve Dupre created was so overwhelm- stay within his own time: this Is of the functions which they were created to ing that the audience could not important. His treatment of the So some poor chillun get de shoos From corrugated souls, Alexander Field they are not content with ' applaud.\ * * * \There was no past is at best a second-hand treat- watch in!! the g·~Ine in pe<>na, but I·nsi·st unon perform, have become obsolete. discord in the selections, only dis- ment; he cannot immortalize a per- ~ « ave- 1 J C 'd f 1 th 1 f · sonance.\ iod or even a personality when his surging onto the playing field both during onsl er or {·Xamp e e va ue 0 elechng -\Sounded lilr~ a five-year-old tak- sources are drawn 'from wilted And then dey get those tennis court blues, the iranle and betwee!l halves. When a form freshsman class officers. As the practice ing random slaps at the key- documents or from hearsay. Prev- - h f h 1 fi · board\ * * • .. How could there be ious to the 18th century, great ar- of peace is restored by the ushers, these now goes, t e res man c ass elects ve off1- any applause: the whole audience tists drew their themes from life cers · president vice president secretary was fast asleep\ • * * \I suppose itself; they evaluated life by living . Keep off I Keep off'/ pe'!Mive/ our clay ero- I.GNOTUS urchins next enjoy a tug-of-war with the · · ' - ' ' if I studied the structure of the it, not by setting themselves apart ropes surrounding the playing field. These treasurer, and historian. Everyone knows ~u:_nrrs ~ cfould appreciattefthem, 11 ~e:n~;~~ct~r~l~ci~Wt;~~~~u~~: ropes have been broken in the past and may that these officei·s have nothing to do and t;;:em ~~-\ orce my ear · 0 0 ow liere, Milton: examine the lives of I II th t t b 1 t d · t h Th any one of these masters and see I d I be broken again in the future. All in all the a 0 e e ec e one IS an emp Y onor. e A few things remain to be said. for yourselves what an active part Week's Best E itoria Class ]las no busl .ness and meetl.l10'S ai·e there We thoroughly admire an artist they took in all that went on about present situation is deplorable and is getting ' \ - who refuses to debase his standards them. :Now the artist retreats like !.!;;;;=============:! wor\\' with each home contest. Are not the fore seldom, if ever, held. This state of of excellence on any occasion, even a petulant child into a world of his -......eshmen, .,n., \Hello'.\ \\ ff . 1 . h \d f t' ll when he invites the unanimous con- own making, where the language ..,., ow, students and guests of Union College en- a all'S re Ieves t e preSI ent 0 prac ICa Y demnation of his hearers. The radio and forms are utterly meaningless To be friendly in one's social hl ·s sole duty of pres1'd1\ng at class meet1'ngs is a living monument to this policy to the poor unfortunates who stum- , b th d t d · · tl 'tled to a bi\t o·f dt'gnl'ty ·.at tt1·e g•a.J\'es fol'· ' of · · th 1 h t th t group lS 0 a u Y an a prlVI- 1 \ d 1 th . 'd t h givmg . e peep e w a ey wan ' ble along through the real world. le\'e encumbent upon every human which the • .v pay to observe? an eaves e VICe-pres! en , w o assumes and look at the radio! The best All of which is a long and loose in'dtvidual. This truism is yet to be BLUE FOR GARNET BAND? Will some one please tell us why some of the members of the band insist on appearing in blue S\Veaters. Each member of the or- ganization is supposed to have a uniform, so there is absolutely no excuse for it. SEATS AT FOOTBALL GAMES From the standpoint of the undergrad- uates the new system of securing seats at football gmnes is highly unsatisfactory. The system embodies several inconveniences which are not at all desirable nor in the least justified. Everyone who wishes to attend a contest wants to see that game in the company of one ot more of his fdends. It is now neces- sary to round up that entire group who wish to see the game together on or before Thursday during the week of the home con- test. Sometimes that is wholly impossible and when it is someone must be left. On the other hand, if some undergraduate re- ceives an unexpected guest -on Saturday morning, it is then too late for him to make ai-rangements to see the game in the com- th d t . f tl 'd t · th 1 tt • art has alw~ys been limited in its rationaHzation on our inability to t e u 1es o lE' pres1 en In e a er s ap.peal, and m our era, when bour- appreciate the music of Marcel learned by many of the presen b · h h' · · t d d h d · d h t Hobart freshmen. If they are so- a sence, w1t not 1ng to assume. W1th no geols san ar s ave rle up w a- Dupre. cially immature and unaware of ever aestheticism there existed , JOHN ROBERTS '34 meetings being held, the secretary has no the requirement, sterner means will speedily impress it upon them. minutes to record, and the treasurer has no II II sections, spreads the students 'OUt tn the American small college of financial mattel'S to attend to. The only In the Ma··· more, and hinders the cheer lea&- the size of Hobal't, it is· possible for . ers from getting the effect of con- every student to know all his class- class officer who does perform any function centrated voices. In addition to mates personally as wen as to ree- l.\_ =============;;;;;!! that, the natural result from this ognize at sight a majority, if not is the historian who writes the class history system in the future is going to be the entirety, of the remaining stu- Editor of the Concordiensis, th t th h ·11 d 11 f · for the Garnet. It would be a simple matter a e ouses Wl sen a 0 dents. If you of Hobart's class of Schenectady, N. Y. their men to the office to get 193'l do not a.t least tender a friend- for the Garnet to have one of its staff attend Dear Editor: tickets whether they intendl t<> use Ly \Hello\ to every Hobart man you to this and the need for a historian would I would like to take this oppor- ~~~nfrc~~\;~ {~:~.ouf~~etso ::Yd< meet, either on the campus or else- tunity to voice my sentiments in where ln Geneva, you are not living then vanish. regard to the new policy of buying way of thinking, will not help the· up to the best of your college's tickets for horne football games. gate receipts. traditions. The same might be said of the sophomore I am sure that the athletic ae- It is always easy to offer the Many of this year's entering class d . . ] ff' Th . 1a partment has good reasons for put- criticism without the remed>y I either fail to speak, or they reply an JUlllOr c ass 0 leers. e seniOr c ss ting this system into force, and it know, andJ it is hard for the ath- to verbal salutations in a condes- does have business peculiar to itself to carry may help in some instances· ih pre- letic department to receive com- cending manner, not at all condu- venting young alumni from using plaints constantly from the under- cive to congenial relations with on, and it therefore should retain its offi- studient passes to enter the games, gradluates on this and oth~r mat- members of other classes. And the but the Inconvenience to the stu- ters, when perhaps the und!ergrad\ rt 't t 1 h t t cers. As regards the J'unior class officers, d uates do not understand the1\r v·ew- 1 oppo um Y. 0 earn ow 0 ge ents should seriously be consid• along with one's· fellows is· one of all except thi! prom committee could be dis- ered, point, but I dJo hope that it will be the gcreates.t gifts which college From my own standpoint, it reconsidered and a better system. ffers pensed with since they have outgrown their turned out to be very unsuccessful. devised. Perhaps three sections 0 • · could be res:erved for students only. Complaint has also been made use, and as for sophomore and freshman On Thurs&ay afternoon 1 purchased Tickets could be issued which that the new men are spurning the ff . th ld b b ]\ 1 d \th t th a ticket, with two of my friends, would entitle the bearer to any seat freshman rules, Individua;}s among· 0 leers, ey COU e a 0 IS 1e Wl OU e tteither of whom could. come to the in thos·e three sections. This will tliem have been observed on the change even beil1Q' noticed. It therefore ~ootball game on Saturd·ay. I came allow groups to go to the games campus minus fresh caps, cutting ~ to the game with several other together, When these have all campus, and failing to lift hats stands to reason that, since class O·rganiza- friends, all of whom had seats. I been issued, they could then resort upon meeting seniors. These al- had to take my own seat of course, t 1 d · t , t k tion has been deprived of its functions l:tnd and' sat aloJte through the first half 0 selling reserved tickets. I am ege VIola ions Will be a en care of. the game, I arriveCL early sure that the objection from the of by the Druids and the senior since class elections breed animosity and bad enough so that I could have pick- stud!ents does not come from hav- dlsciplil;tary committee.. More im- ing to go to the office for tickets, portant is the uniform exempliflca• feeling-and it must be admitted that they ed a very much better seat, and en- and this ought to accomplish the tion of courtesy toward all one's joyed my company, but t)le system do ai 'OliSe such feel1'ngs only tl1e seni·or off' maltes this l\mposs1\ble. The seats same results. At any rate I am associates. That is- a. trait which · - 1- sure some better arrangement can will prove to be of life-long· va;lue,· next to me remained vacant, cers and the junior prom committee should though they could very- wen have be made. attraction, and profit. be ele·cted. been used by other students. These Very sincerely, Freshmen, say \Hello!\ vacancies throughout the student w: L. Draper '34. -Hobart Herald ;; ' ·l

THE CONCORDIENSlS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 10,.1933 Three Gridmen and Harriers Win From Hobart and Vermont ~·-------------------------------·--------------------------------·~ Cross Ceuntry Team Outruns Vermont Men at Burlington to Win 19-36 Victory Five Touchdowns Give Garnet Eleven 32 to 0 Triumph Over H·obart D~eacons · Powerful Running and Passing Attack ·Completely Baffles Hobart as Dain and Semerad Play Bdl- liant 'Ga<me in Backfield With Excellent Defense By MILTON A. BERGER Statistics of the Union-Hobart Game Union First d!owns from scrimmage ...................... 13 First downs from passes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Total first downs .................................. 16 J;ards gained from rushing ........................ 352 Yards gained from forward passes ................ 152 Total yardts gained ................................. 504 Number of forward .passes ......................... 13 Forwards completed ............. - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Forwards intercepted by . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Average yards of punts ............................ 35 Fumbles mad·e . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . 3 Fumbles recover·ed by . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Yards lost by penalties ............................ 90 Hobart 3 0 3 66 0 66 6 0 2 40 0 3 5 In a. game featured by the extremely efft;!ctive aerial combination, Dain to Semerad, and fine defensive w.ork by .. Jack Finch, the Garnet varsity eleven easily defeated Hobart ~--------------------------.....: Union Led by Lape Who Crosses Finish Line in 18.61.4; Kazmierczak Is 'Third Behind Cliff Har- wood, Vt.; Four Garnet Men Tied. for Fourth F tb ll T The cross country team out-ran 00 : a. . ourney the University of Vermont at Bur- A h I Hngton Friday with a score of 19-36. Pproac es Fi •na· s• Lape, the first man. to cross the fin- ' · · ' · ·. ' ' ~h line covered the course, about three miles, without any competi- here Saturday by a score of 32. to 0. Penalties amounting to 90 yards pr.evented the Union scoring machine from rolling- up several more touchdowns. For the most part the game was played in the Deacons' territory, the only exception be- HOC:KEY NOTICE All men intevested in hockey please leave a schedule of their afternoon classes with William Ben- nett at the Beta Theta Pi house before tomorrow ·afternoon. Brilliant s ·• l c cz· y t d t:ion, 'in 18:64.4. !:gna a er es er ay Beta Theta Pi defeated . The first mile was covered at a Kappa Alpha 18 to 12 and Phi Gam- Leads Garnet to Victory rna Delta downed Kappa Sigma 8 Cast clip. The Union team was to 0 in the first games of the open-. still running in a ,group. Five Ver- ing of the second round in the fra- mont men were holding the pace. ternity touch football eliminatiart' In the next half mile the runners taurnament. By virtue of their vic- began to string out. Lape drew into tory the Betas, being in the upper the lead at the two mile mark. bracket, draw a bye which puts Ha;rwood of Venmont slipped passed them in the semi-final round. • Eazmierczak. The other Vermont ing at the close 0f the second period. - Semerad Scor~s en Pass The early part ~f the first quarter developed into a kicking hatotle dur- ing Which neither team made any subsrtantiaJ adva,nce. Acting Cap- tain Ralph Semerad not only booted several well ,placed punts but re- peatedly ran back the opposi-ng kicker's punts fo-r fifteen or twenty yards. With the pedod about half over, Semerad and Dain instituted an attack through h·oles made by Finch at center and around the ends. Chet DiLallo inaugurated the offensive wit-h a short gain through center from midfield. Then Sern- erad, behind \Splendid blo-cking· skirted left end: for 19 yards. Chrys- ler and Seme·rad mad·e gains for 9 and 5 ya.rds. Chipper Dain then zhct an 1& yard pas~S into Semer•ad's arms· for the first touchdown. The latter's kick for point failed· to rise over the cross.bar, leaving· the score 6 to 0 in f•avor of the home team. The rest of the quarter revealed fine defensive play by both lines. Kearn,-, La-mbeth, and Finch re- fused to yield on the Garnet line, while Tuturro at left guard bolsteJ- ed the line for the Geneva team. Returning a punt with a beautiful pivoting run to midfield Semerad s-t·arted ·the second quarter with an- other drive to the Hobart goal. After __ _ Sport Slides by Arnold J. Fried man RRi..PJI D. :5£MERI.ID ~ 13/iJCI<. COMMITTEE TO REPORT T d D lt u ·1 · l · · men dropped back,. leaving Nestle, 0 ay e a psi on IS P aymg· ~1irate, Gottschalk, and Bvockwehl the Neutrals, both of whom won forfeits in the opening round, while running together. Sigma Chi plays Psi Upsilon. To- Lape took first place without any morrow Kappa Nu faces Theta Nu difficulty, although Harwood proved Epsilon in the flna:l game of the sec- himself to be an excellent runner. ond round. The team showed such good hal- First Round Results and Schedule ance that prospects look bright for The complete results of the first the WHliams meet Saturday. round are as follows: Beta Theta The following times were handed Pi 6, Alpha Delta Phi 2; Kappa Al- in: Lape, Union, 10:01.4, Harwood, pha 28, Delta Chi 8; Kappa Sigma Vermont, 18:37.2, Kazmierczak, 2, Sigma Phi 0 <forfeit); Phi Gam- Union, 18:37.2, Mira:te, Nestle, Gotts- rna Delta 34, Phi Sigma Kappa 0;' chalk, and Brockwehl, Union, 18:43, Neutrals 2, Chi Psi 0 <forfeit; Delta' Suitor, Vermont, 18:45, Bastedo, Upsilon 2, Alpha Mu Sigma o (for- Union, 18:50, Levine. Vermont, feit); Sigma Chi 26, Alpha Phi Delta 19:15, North, Union, 19:17, Rogers, 7; Psi Upsilon 13, Phi Sigma Delta 'Twitchell, Andrews, and White, 4; Theta Nu Epsilon 19, Phi Delta. Vermont, no times. Theta 13; Kappa Nu 9, Delta Pi Nu 0. Thursday will see the beginning of the quarter-finals. On that day Phi Gamma Delta plays the winner of the match between the NeutraJs and Delta Upsilon. The winner of this quarter-final match will draw a bye, automaticaJly putting them in the finals. Friday the winner of the Sigma Chi-Psi Upsilon contest will play the victors of the Theta Nu REPEATED COURSE FEES All payments from students tak- ing repeated courses must be paid at the Bursar's office on or before Tuesday, October 17th. The bill will be $15 each, for the first .semester. Notices have been sent to all stu- dents taking repeated courses. 0·------ NOTT MEMORIAL IDGHWAY two prcdu cti v€ end runs ·by Di· Lalla and Sem· erad, Chip Da.in again faded back and tos~ed a ll' yard pass to Sem· erad on the 2C yard line. The nex:t play was one of the pret tie~:t of the game. Sliding off right tackle Dain cut in to· w.ard center and w~rmed his way thr{)ugh a maze of Amherst, Union's opposition this week-end, was crushed Saturday by the powerhouse attack of a Princeton backfield of sophom<:>res, . 40 to 0. PrincetJorr, relying this year on the graduates of an undefeated,' unscored-on freshman football team, completely overwhelmed the game' purple and white outfit from Mass. Amherst, already regarded as a dan- gerous team, failed to make a first down and gained ·only 25 yards dur- ing the game. Union's five touchdown ad:vantag,e over Hobart equa:led· that of Amherst when the Lord Jeff men beat Hobart last week. Frorr. all indications our Garnet-clad men will not be. a setup for the highly- touted Sa:brlnas. On comparing the two opening games of these two rivals one can forsee a tight struggle this Saturday at Amherst. Never- theless, Amherst probably will enter the game a slight favorite over Coach Hatfield's clan because of its veteran Little Three championship: lineup. Another future Union opponent, one that Union bas nevel' met before on the gridi1•on, Swarthmore, played a SC()refess tie with Dicltinson. This was Swarthmure~s ·opening game and shed& prac-· tically no light upon Swarthmore's strength. This Saturday they meet Gettysburg who beat them 14 to 0 last year. Williams College opene:I its season on Weston Field by losing to Middlebury 3 to 0. The Panther's brilliant quarterba.ck, Williams, ldcked a field goal ht the third peliod and this proved to be the winning tally. Twice ht the last quarter Middlebury held the Purple for downs on the two yru.·d line. Williams seems much weaker this year than tlley were last season. This Satm·day they meet the Princeton Tiger away and no doubt will be. ripped to pieces. The U. of Rochester, with prac- tically the same lineup that lost to Oberlht a week ago, dropped their first game to Alfred since 1917 by a 7 to 0 score. Torello caught a punt in tile fu:st quarter and behind. hastily formed but perfect Inter-- ference raced lialf the length of the field along the Genesee River to cross Rochester's goal. The Yellowjackets were completely demoral- Ized when Dave Grice, their play caller was injured in the first half. Grice is the Rochester captain a.nd plays end. --- Epsilon-Kappa Nu g'ame. On Mon- A complete report on the hockey day Beta Theta Pi will meet the situation a,t Union is now being winner of the match played Friday made ·and the committee expects to in the semi-finals. The finals will place thei: report to Professor J. be held next Wednesday at. 12:45 Harold Wittner before tomorrow. o'clock on Graduate Council Field The committee has made favorable I where all .the preliminary matches progress in their investigations. are held. The Connecticut Alumni Associa- tion of Union College will unveil the marker for the Eliphalet Nott Memorial Highway, Saturday, Oc- tober 21st, near Warrenville, Con- neticut, according to invitations re- ceived by the Graduate Council. tacklers for the ..t::.,o;H::=Ili:.,..,&:,;;..,F=:,\'-:-:<:::-11-:-: second touchd·own. Semerad's kick went wide, making the score 12 to Qo. At this point .s ev- eral Union substitutes were sent into <the game. Ho-bart now un- corked its one hig drive of the fr•ay. Curtin, the Deac·on fullback, scooted around left end for 15 yards befme being tackled by Rotunda on the Union 45 yard lin·e, Rich won ~Six Y'ards around right end. Cross made gains of 2 to· 6 yards and Rich, o·f 8 to 13 yards. The end of lthe half found the ball on the· Union 9 yarod line. IIobaa-t HcldiS In Third Period The Garnet thre•atened to· s-cor<: again at the· outset of the .s·econd half when a long pass, Dain. to S·emerad, and runs. by Chrysler and Semeorad broug-ht the baH to the Hobar•t 12. y-ard line before it was lost on downs. The quarter ended with the ball in po~·.session of HQ- boart on her own 9 y•ard line. The last qu-ar• ------- t.:r opened: with Sermerad ret'U.rrt- ing a punt to t.he Hobart 25 yard line. A short pass fio:m PaJn to Pi- Lalla n e t t e d 7 yards. Dain, on a lateral pass from· Semerad weaved his way through t•he- entire oppos- ing te•am for tlhe third touchdown. Semerad's place- ki·ck was good. On two successive passes of 9 and 2a · yard-s r e.s·pecti ve- ci/AR4&~ L.OAIA/.<Jfl.3• ly, from Chip Dain to DiLallo and Ito ·Stevenson another t~uchdown was tallied. The place- kick by Ralph Semerad went. true. Shortly af!l:er the next kickoff, Chet DiLallo plunged through tackle for 23 yar.ds. This, followed by line bucks b~ Cl:)rysler brought the ban to within '!II f-oot of obhe .goa.! from where· Dain took the iball around end for the final touchdown. The summary follows·: UNION JIOBART I.E ·waldron ........ , . . . .. . . . Morris LT Lambeth ..... , .. , , , , , . Ehrenfeld An unexpectedly smooth working Rensselaer Tech eleven romped al·l over the field Saturday, easily defeating City College of New York, 33 to 0. The Engineers scored five touchdowns, a safety and a single point after touchdown, while the L!llvender failed to threaten. Only for a few moments in the lasrt quarter did the New Yorkers get inside the Troy boys' territory. Sawyer, Suk, McKinley and Conradi were the hard driving R. P. I. backs while Meyer and Suk did some ex{lellent passing. R. P. I. entered the game w.ith a su,ppo.sedly mediocre team, but their routing the opposition throws a. different light on rthe tea;m, R. P. I. did not try to keep the strength of their team a secret as I had the oppor- · ' tunity to see the team in action in practice and als-o to talk with several men on the 'Tute te-am. Either C. C. N. Y. is very weak this year or else Coach Kumpf and the rest of the squad of five coaches have instilled new spirit into their cha;rges. This Saturday R. P. I. will meet St. Law- ' renee in Troy, and if you can't get to Amherst for the Union game, go to Troy ami see a .game that promises to be excellent. St. Lawrence lost to the· Colgate Red Raiders Saturday rather decisively, but they a;lwa.ys play good. baJl agaiitSt a tea~ of their own reputed strength. Hainllton College; 'Q'nion's last rival of the year, defeated Buffalo by a. 15 to 0 score at ()linton. Harding a.nd McKenzie scored touch- downs in the first and last periods wllile Edwards scored a safety in the third. pel'iod. This. Saturda,y Haanilton will viSit Rochester, whom they defeated last year 14 to 7. From the strength of Rochester this yea.r it looks as if Hamilton will repeat that victory. The above column has· been wlitten bl order to give Union students an idea of what fu1;ure Union opponents are doing on the gridiron. When one compares the opponents with Union up to the present time, it can be found that Union ha& an excellent team, one tha.t can compare with any of its rivals favorably. RJight now stumbling blocks for the Gar- net do not seem as strong as they did at the stat't of the season. Few Matches Completed in Intramu1·al Tennis Tourney 3-6, 6-4, and Dow advancing on a default by Stewart. LG Kearns . , ... , ........... Turturro c Finch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Gilman Only •a few matches have been RG Moulton ...... , ......... Mulligan pl·a.yed over the week-end in the Oppenheim attained the third round on a bye when Friedman and Taylor failed to play their first round match. In the other second round encounter W•assmansdorf downed Hinman, 6.,2, 6-1 .. RT Dyal ........... -....... Shepard . intr:.amural tennis toumament. Sec- RE Krull ....... · .. · ....... Whitney ond round matches, must be com- QB Semerad · · · · · · · ··· ··· · · · · · · · · · Rich pleted by Friday. T:O facilitate the LH Dain · · .. · .. · · · · ··· · · · · · .. · Boney posting- of matches ·pl·ay.ed, PI\'fes- RH DiLallo ....... ,,_ ........... Baker H ld W'tt FB •Chrysler ........... , ... ., .. Curtin sor J. aro 1 ner of the Phy.s\ Score bY' periods: icaJ EdUcation d.epa.rtment has had tennis scoring sheets posted on tbe UNION · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ··· 6 6 0 20- 32 bulletin board in the basement of. HOBART ' , . , , . ', . , . . . . 0 0 o: 0- o· the gymnasium, Touchdowns--Union: Semerad, Dain 3, Stevenson. Point after touchdown- The only seeded player to ad- Semera.d 2 (place kicks). Substitutions vance to the third round so .far is --Union: Rotunda; Stevenson, C:vane,. Sam Keats Wh{) defeated Schwebel Little, Agius, Greenberg, Connelly, . 6-0, 6-1, in his se.cond round match. Kendrisk. Acheson, J,Voodi:uff,. Kuttler, Three first round en-gagements· ha.ve Duchscherer, Gulnac, Bullard. Hobart: ·been plaved since Thursday, Garri- Cross, Whitaker, Dickinson, Renley, \ l'IIulligan. Time of :periods-15 minutes. son. def.eating W. Waldron, 8-6, 12-1<>; Referee-H. DeWindt, Harvard. Fivth winning over Higgins, 6-4, SIGN YOUR LETTERS The Concordiensis will not pub- : lish any letters unless the writers thereof are known to· the editor. ' The names will be withheld if the authors so desire. PUBLICATION BOARD There will be a meeting of the • Publication Board at 4:30 tomorrow afternoon in the waiting room of the Administration Building. The Local MERCHANTS Have Been Very Generous in Their Subscribing to the Concordiensis STU-DENTS It Is Your Duty to Return This Generosity to Our Advertisers By PA TRONIZIN:C THEM

THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 10,1933 Four Pr@fessor's Cows, Cheese Butt @I Student Pranks Eng·ineers to Hear Report \Philomatheans Will Debate Of Constitution Committee On Recognition of Russia on 'the recent debate coaches c<>n- Race Racket Ancient Custom .pare•nts poor 'Ci·tizens. will be born. ference. The facts of hist<Jry S·ho:w ~t.p-a;t n<> There was •a sizeable turn out at Fostered for War, DI', Coffin predickion can be made in either the meeting indicating that the in- --·- case. terest in debating in Union College 'l'he meeting last night was the Due to the existence of several · is increasing. All those who have . (Continued from Page 1) best attended at the Men's Club dn any interest in this type of work, breeding: speed in horses; egg,lay' several years. Not on1y .rn.em·bers whether experienced or not are i-ng in chickens•. And slince the qual:- of the Temple Gates of Heaven,, but urged to attend the meetings each !ties of gnod citizensllip are spirit- many non-memlbers, including nun- Monday evening at 7:30p.m. in the ual, not physical, eugei)ics cannot Jews, wete pres·ent to hear Dr. C<>f· By VEDDER M. GILBERT different versions of their constitu- At the regular Monday meeting One morning last year a bed was found on the steps of the Memorial Chapel. The uniqueness of the sit- uation <:aused a bit of excitement, yet had it happened some 20 years ago nothing would have been said, for such pranks were everyday oc- curences. tion, the American Society of Civil of the Philo~at:t;,ean debating soci- Engineers will hear a report by the eiy. the quest10n Resolved, that the Constitution Committee on a revised Umted States should adopt the system of ruling tomorrow night. British ~a;dio system\ was ~ebated. The meeting will take place at eight The deciSI~n wa~ ren~ered m .rayor o'clock in the Engineering Building. of the affirmative s1de cons1shng Old Chapel. help us to bring about a better race, fin s.peak. Among those who e·n- -- ---o---- me•aning by this term a ra:ce in tered in1o the in~eresting long dis- The committee, of which Profes- of Nessel, ~ohen and Freedman_ '37. sor warren c. Taylor is faculty ad- The negative team was comprised viser, is composed by chairman of ';L'ownley, Reeves and Plumme·r, John Gurry, '34, and Pierre Hulsart, aH 37. SOPHOMORE NOTICE which neighbors <:an Jive .peacefully cussion that followed was· Dr. Al- together bec·ause they show r.ecipro- n<Oido A. Satnorini and Joseph Ro- cai consi:deration for e'<l.ch ot.her. No 'tundo. Ernest A. Oohen ,president All ·Sophomores wishing to try out ·guarantee can be made that childe of the Men's· .Club, intrQduce·d Dr. for business manager of 1936 Gar- ren of physica.Jly perfect parents. Coffin. Back in the days when there were no movies to attend, and it took hours to get to Saratoga by horse, undergraduates had to produce thei-r own amusement.;. Practical joking was their favorite sport, the pasture and the cla:;sroums were the chosen spots for fun. '34. The subject for next week is, \Re net are asked to communic·ate with will b~ \.good or that from weak Lealie Partridge at Kappa Alpha -~--=--=-:.· .::~=·.::·-=···;;;-,.:::;:;;-;:;; .. ___ ____ The professor's cows put out to gr·aze in the pasture below the Ter- Jace Wall were often victims of col- lege pranks. H wa:> not an uncom- mon :;igtrt to ~\\ a zebra-lil'e cow backing in the noon-day sun. Un- foruna.tely the painted strips caused The officers of the society are solved, that the United States Louis H. William, '34, president; should recognize Russia.\ The af- Roger Kendelhart, '35, vice-pres!- flrmative team is Schwebel, '34, dent; Roberts Kennedy, '34, secre- Niles and Whitbeck '37; the nega- tary ;and George Burd, 35 treasurer. tives are Woolman '35, Hinkley and Feldman, '37. Lodge sometme this· week. ,- GERMAN CLUB The Germ.aJ!l Club will meet to-·. · · n.i.ght at 8:00 o'clock in Sillimam Hal·l. \'Vhat Do You Think of Us?\ Dur.ing the course of the evening Prof. Leon Godshall gave a report Ask,; Bishop Fiske in Chapel the siclmess or some beloved pro- (Continued from Page 1) fessor's cow, and then the boys suf- preciation for the be·autiful hate,- fered from guilty consciences. from whence came they? That must The class rooms afforded a less be God.\ dan\'et·ous spot for deviltry since Read Sj. Jobn's Words they were furnished with unat- Then he said he began to read the tached desks and chairs which Gospels, especially St. John. He easily lent themselves to being re- found that Jesus Christ claimed for moved. Upperclas;;men took great Himself and let others claim for delight during the darkness of the Him. He found that Christ is the night in directing Fresh~en as they world's greatest religious genius. He laboriously spent hours m stackmg found that Jesus was able to trans- the furniture in the center of the late the words of God as no man room, or, better still, command that· had ever translated them before or the pieces be carted out and placed has ever translated them since. He on some high roof, or a desk or so found that he came to seek God be stl ung up on the highest limb of through Jesus Christ. a venerable tree. But their efforts In concluding, he stated that pea- were usually foiled, for the college pie had lived with Christ and then had hired a janitor who boasted like a flash, af.ter the resurrection, that he was able to get around early they realized His worth and im- enou~h in the morning to set things portance, but by that time it was in order by class time. too late. His closing words were HuweveT, nut all the boy,;' prankti that he wished he could impress went astray. There h; a record of upon every member of the audience how once their aim was only .too what it means to have that same well accompl!=;hed. \Spil Hale certainty in God. was the butt of the joke. ===============:., \Spike\ used to hold his classes in r South College in the room now oc- cupied by Doctor Godshall. One dar!' night some of his studen~s who were scheduled to attend h1s class the next morning crept into the classroom. took out putty kniVP>', unwrapped a goodly supply of Jimbuq~er chPP\\· Rnd ~et about plastering up thP large craeks Ill Rosendale Florist Jay St., at Franklin the wall, and ,;ealing the windows and doors with the cheese. Need- Jess to say next day no classes were held in number two South College. ST. REGIS PHARMACY - ~- --. To Reorganize the Radio Club; Meeting Thursday Last year an attempt was made e by a few interested students to re- vive the Union College Radio Club, which in years past had been one of the most active clubs on the cam- Charles R. Carey, Prop. 600 Union Street PHONE 4-1123 THE CAZETTE PRESS· PRINTERS ConvincinoTestiD.Iong That WEBSTER•§ COLLEGIATE Is the Best Abridged Dictionary \I can hardlY bellovo .f shall ~ver apply to It any test It will not creditablY sustain. It is an amazing 'H'\~d~~ts:!ver~cc~~~~~c~~s~tt~ 5 1~~~it~~~o~~s~~~h~o1~~~~ Pn.JsiLit•nts rmo.l.lJepartrncnt llcad.s of leading l.'nl\\er~ sitl~:s agree \lllh this opinion. \Y('bSt(>r's C'olleglnto is best bcC'ause it is- bas<'d ·on thG \'Supt·eme ..A.uthority\- \\\ebster's Ne1v International Dictionary. 106,000 en. tries including hundreds of new words, with definitions. spellings, and correct usc: a diettonary of Biography: vlations, etc.: a dlc~i!1~~~tt:/rlo~~\~ 8 tl 0 ~E~~ 0 s 0 ~~aJl~~~~:S?f~~g~~:he~bp~:: tures of prnrtlt'al value. 1.268 pages. 1. 700 mustrntlons. See It At Your College BoolrstoreorWrlto forlnformntion to tho Publishers. G. & C. MERRIAM CO. SPRINGFIELD, MASS. The HAWTHORNE CLUB SANDWICHES and COLD DRINKS 216 Lafayette Street UNION•s OLD STANDBY Our Work and Prices Are Competitive GARNET TAILOR 305 Liberty St. Tel. 4-0122 Bellinger :Paint Co. AR'rHUR TRIGG, Prop. Paints, Oils, Varnishes, Glass Brushes and Wall Paper 126 BROADWAY THE A:CME HOUSE LINEN SUPPLY CO., Inc. Rents Linen for all Occasions (You pay for Laundry Work only) 1030 BARRET ST. Phone 4-9310 Enjoy Yourself at RICHARDS Among Intimate Surroundings BILLIARDS and BOWUNG 506 State Street HENRY'S BARBER SHOP BARBERING and MANICURING 4 N. Y. C. Arcade pus. This attempt was successful to .the extent that meetings were held regularly and an amateur transmitter was put into operation. The activities of the organization were limited greatly becau:oe of the small number of members. In con- tra,;! to the three operator.:, amate·ur operators who were in college last year, there are now at least 11, so there is no reason why the club can- not be succe~sful this year. o you remember Althou~h plans for the year have not yet been completed, it h:> hoped that the club will be able to put on the air an amateur code station of at least 100 watts output, and oper· ate it regularly on 20, 40 and 80 meters. This will 1equire several operators, if a good job is to be done. so the co-ope·ration of all the amateur opera tots m colh:ge is , asked. \ Meetings are to be held monthly, at which technical discussions Will 1' be Inter-mixed w1th other interest- ing and instructive features. In I ordPr to dE'tPrmine how many per- sons Will be acttve m the club thi:o , year, and what phase of radio they are int<>t e\ted in, a short special , mePting has been called fur 1.00 , P. M .. Thursday. in Room 105 in the P.hysJCs Bmldi..og. Freshmen m.tet- , ested in the wm k of the club are 1 especially uq;ed to n>ttPnd. The meeting will be over in time for ! 1 :30 classes. 0 RENOVATING I'RJ:<;SIDt:NT'S H0!\11<: The pr estdent'~ home is now un- . dergoing a thorough extPrior re- 1 dec01ating job. \Vork on the house · was begun several d'ays ago. and i~ I nut tXpt'dt d to b!' complPtPd hP- ' ful(' a month'~ tim<'. Tlw old stucco' IS bPing a]Ulm't t•nt iJp)y I ('ffiOVecl 1 and will be 1 t>pllw<'d by a n<'W grey , stucco. NPw slntP is a.bo bPing laid whic'h will complPte th!' work. ThP wo1 k is und<>r tiH' sup•·t viHion of C. E. \'arnPy. a !oral contractor. The f'Xpcn~<' i,.: bPing rov<>red' by the roll<·gP. The Acme Barber WELCOMES College Students 509 Union St. - -- -- . - DEWITT'S LUNCH Opposite New City Hall 118 Jay Street I I ... all of the claims that have been made about smoking tobacco-how it was that one was this and that one was that? Mter all, what you want to know when you get a thing for a certain pur- • pose ts ••• <\t\Was it made for that?\ Granger is made of White But·ley- the kind of leaf tobacco that's best for . ptpes. And old man Wellman, who taught us how to make Granger, knew how. GrangeT is made to smoke in a pipe-and folks seem to like it. a sensible package 10 cents _the tobacco that's MADE FOR PIPES @ 1933, LIGGBTI' &: MYI!RS ToBACCO Co, : .\ . i .·, ' ; \\'

.. . \ i t 1 i: I Mountebanks to Conduct Co.ntesit for a New Cover Design Faculty Women to Hold Book- Sale Again in December Vol. LVII UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1933 No.7 Plan to C~onduct Hockey At Schedule Contains Studen~s Favor the Problem of College Income Mariaville Meets Obstacles ~e~ ltr:~=~ ~~~~~! ~ff~:!~~n T~h ~;Shrinkage Met By Trustees Report of Investigation by Special Committee Lists Acting P1·esident Ellery Descl'ibes Method Adopted Ph '1 · th s · t t Tak \Class Officers Indispensable Objectionable and Favm·able Aspects of P1•oposed 1 oma · ean octe Y 0 e for Many Reasons\ States by College in Simplification and Coordination of Paxt in Intramural Contest - Ad • Plan,· Athletic Board to Take Action October 25 Edward M. Hutton, '34 mmistrative Machine1·y,· Salaries Not Cut Against Hartwick Team ~·--------------------~----- COST IS BIG OBSTACLE Department of Athletics Will• ing to Consider Other Plans· Which May Be Proposed Completing a thorough investiga- tion of the hockey situation at Un- ion College, a special committee of the Athletic BO'ard believes that irt view of existing conditions, the conducting of the ice-game at Mar- iaville Lake is an impracticable· propostion, according to a report made public this morning by Pro- fessor J. Harold Wittner, Director of Athletics. In the report submitted to Prof. Wittner, the committee lists a few objections to the plan of having hockey played at Mariaville. The chief ones of these were: failure of students most interested to hand in schedules; impossibility of charg~ ing admission to help defray ex- penses; undependable weather; too great expense of transporting men to Maria ville every day, due to vary- ing number of those able to go; and lack of shelter and dressing accommodations at the lake. Fav<Jrable Featw·es of Plan On the other hand, the committee found some favorable points which they thought deserved mention. These were; the evident interest of a sizable group of students, the generous offer of two of the facul- ty, Dr. Leonard B. Clark and H. L. Achilles to coach the team; the fact that Mariaville is generally much colder than Schenectady, thus assuring better ice; the will- ingness of the Dean and· of the Di- rector of Athletics to cooperate with the students to determine a satisfactory plan for the continu- ance of hockey. In the same report, the special committee pointed out the cost of cleaning the ice, the per capita cost of transporting the 29 members who signed for hockey, and the amount of the guarantee required for the usual home games. It also reported that there is enough hockey equipment on hand to fur- nish fifteen men with uniforms, and that Mr. Peake of Mariaville has offered to store the players equip- ment, nets, and other articles after practices at no cost to the college. The members of the committee are: George R. Cory, Jr., Charles W. Bennett, and Robert J. C. Brearton. To Take Action Octobe1· 25 ~1ountebanks Cover Design May Change Dramatic Society to Present Two-Year Pass to Student AN INNOVATION HERE Union to Participate Again in State Debate Conference on Colg·ate University Campus Who Submits Best Design. The scl1edule of debates f<Jr tbe 1933-34 seas·Oll :has been completed, The Mountebanks are conducting a contest for a new cover design on their programs which may be changed this season, it was learned yesterday after a business staff meeting. All students are eligible to submit designs. To the student whose design is accepted the Mountebanks will give either one pe.ss good for two years or two passes good for one year (value $6.00). All designs must be line drawings in India ink, a:nd should be submitted to William Draper at the Chi Psi Lodge on or before November 1. Copies of old pro- grams are available and may be obtained from William Draper at the Chi Psi Lodge or Mr. Milton Enzet· at the News Bureau. Must CaJI for Tickets Early It was also announced by Wil- liam Draper, business manager of the Mountebanks, that students Who reserve tickets for any of the productions will have to call for them at the theater on the night of the performance fifteen minutes before the play begins. The Mounte- banks reserve the right to sell all reserved tickets uncalled for by that time, but they wish to make it clear that the tickets will be sold only after the other tickets have l;leen sold. Changes in Polley The executive committee of the Mountebanks has decided upon the following changes of policy: A college theater should draw sparingly from contemporary Broadway plays, The Mountebanks should concern themselves with plays of scholarly worth or of un- usual character which could not be produced elsewhere except with guaranteed and interested subscrib- ers. Anti-naturalistic drama a:ffording experimentation in various styles of acting, lighting and setting should be stressed. it has been announced by Robert H. Smith, '34, manager of debate. All home d·ebates are to be ·broad- cast, as has been the custom in the past f·ew years, by the General Elec- tric Company station, WGY. Intramw·al Radio Debate An innovation is to be made this year in the form of an intramural radio debate. This debate, on a subject not yet c:hosen,, wm be be- tween the representatives of the Philomathean Debating Society and the nemosthenean Literary Society of Hartwick College, Oneonta, New YOlk. In this encounter, two mem- bers of the Hartwick club, who have no· varsity team, will oppose two members of the campus society who have had no .previous varsity experien·ce. The debate wiU open the se•as.on·, being broadcast on the night of Friday, November lC. No Hour Has Been Set This year WGY is to broadc·ast the debates on the Friday of the s•econd eo.mplete week in each month for five m<Jnths. Aside from the fact that th-e time of broadcast will be during the course of the evening, no hour has been set. The comiplete schedule f<Jllows: Novemb·er ln·-Philomathean Society vs. Hartwick College at Schenec- tady. Nov·ernber 24--New Yorlt State Teachers' College at Albany. December 15-University of Buffalo ·at Schenectady. January 12-Fordham University at Schenectady February 8-Elmira C<Jllege •at El- mira. February a-Syracuse University at Syracuse. February 1C--Hobart College at .Schenectady. March 13-WiHiams Co~lege at Wil- liamstown. March 16--Rutgers Univer~ity at Schenectady. March 23--Hamilton College at 'Clinton. April 2\7 and 28-New Yor·k State Intercollegiate Debaters' Conven- tion at Colgate, Hamilton, N. Y. 0 Our society should select plays which may be presented in audi- toriums outside of our theater and which are adapted to such a pres- entation that is not only creditable but extraordinary. Mrs. H. C. Coffin to Have Eta Kappa Nu Awards Slide Charge of Book Sale Again SENTIMENTS DIVIDED \Lower Class Officers Should Be Retained for Honor In- volved\ Declares Freshman The Concordiensis is again pub- lishing the ·opinions of seven stu- dents on the question, \Do you favor the a:bolition of all class offi- ces with the exception of those of the Senior Class and the Junior Prom Committee?\ Among the seven men selected to give their opinions three members of the Student Council; Kazmier- czak, '34, Griswold, '36 and Hutton, '34. \\'illiam J. Iiazmierczak, '34, Neu- tral.: \I do not see any reason for abolishing class officers.\ James M. ·Corbin, '34, Sigma Phi: \I believe that Freshma:n, Sopho- more, and Junior officers· do no good and should be abolished.\ Guy Griswold, '36, Phi Gamma Delta: \Class offices give each stu- dent something to look forwa1d to. They serve as suitable reward for those who have distinguished themselves on the campus. For these reasons I think they should be retained.\ Edward M. Hutton, '34, Delta Phi: \In case some class should go in debt, or if it were necessary to call a whole class together for any reasons, officers would be indispen- sable. I think that they should not be abolished. Robert Everest, '37, Delta Up- silon: \Although there doesn't seem to be much for lower class officers to do, I think they should be re- tained for the sake of the honor attached to them.\ Paul Stackpole, '34, Theta Nu Epsilon: \I think there should be someone responsible for the affairs of each class. If officers were abol- ished, a chairman at least should be retained for each of the classes.\ Robed Nelson, '36, Kappa Alpha: \I see no need for treasurers or secretaries because they never hold enough meetings to warrant the taking of minutes. I think there should be presidents in the two upper classes alone.\ ----o:------ Players Start Rehearsals On Coming Productions New Idol Features ANNUALsAviNGOF$s,ooo A Literary Column Smith Will Write New Column On Happenings in District And Other Literary Circles Duties of President and Dean Of Faculty Combined Under Dh·ection of the President Acting President Edward Ellery today described how Union has met the problem of cutting expenses to The first issue of the Idol, the offs.et the shrinkage ·in endowment student quarterly, will come out income from stocks and bonds. In- about November 15, Paul wass- ~tead of cuttin~ the faculty salar- mansdorf '34 editor-in-chief, an- tes to meet th1s• loss of inc<Jme nounced yesterd<;.y. The material Union has simplified and coordi~ for the issue is being prepared by nated its administrative machinery the new board which, besides Wass- so that not only is it more effi- mansdorf, consists of Gilbert Tuck, ciently organized but it will also C. William Bennett, Richard Elan- provide an annual saving of at chard, John K. Sullivan, and Hob- least $ 8 ,000. ert H. Smith. Bennett will also Dr. Ellery said: \Union College act as business manager for the decided last year that if it is to Idol. achieve its aim of 'the advancement of youth,' everythin·g must be sacri- A new feature this year will be ficed to bring this rubout. To this a column called \Idol Talk\ written en·d, the faculty and instructional by Bob Smith, This column will facilities were considered of greater note and discuss literary events, in importance than any other part of this di.>trict and elsewhere, such as the college organization, but they books, dramatics, music, movies, th 1 · and similar subJ'ects. \Idol Talk\ were never e ess giVen a thorough examination in the survey con- will be included in each of the four ducted. Simplification of the ad- issues this year. ministrative facilities then took The material for the Idol is not place and already an annual saving yet completed but this issue will of at least $8,000 has been affected include the following short stories: from this move. Some of the money \Number 72,\ by Sullivan; also a thus saved has been used to in- story tentatively titled \The Inher- crease the quality and· quantity of itance,\ by Blanchard. Wassmans- instrumental facilities provided by dorf, Sidney Markman, and Smith the college library and the labora.- will contribute several essays. tories.\ There will also be reviews on the Duties Coordinated Undei· Dean following: \Tuckerman's Poetry,\ reviewed by Tuc·k; \Autobiography How the adlninistrative organiza- of Gertrude Stein,\ reviewed by lion has been simplified in the in- Wassmansdorf; \Anthony Ad- terest of efficiency and economy, verse,\ by Harvey Allen, reviewed Dr. Ellery described as follows: by Bob Smith; \Tammany at Bay,\ '·'The duties of the dean of the by James A. Finnegan, Union • 02 , faculty and president of the c·ollege · d b s 11 · d have been combined and placed un- revwwe Y u tvan; an several der the direction of the .president. other book reports. The offices of the dean of students ------o registrar, and editor of the official Von Forstmeyer Addresses college bulletins, have been coordi- nated and placed under the direc- First German Club Meeting tion of Dean Garis. \Professor Charles N. Wald:ron The first meeting of the German Club was held Tuesday evening at 7:30 in Silliman Hall. Albert I. Morrison and Morton Stewart, Jr., elected president and secretary, re- spectively, last year, assumed their regular offices. Vice president and treasurer will be elected at a fu- ture meeting. who has been alumni secretary for over twenty years has also been made secretary of the faculty and chairman of the admissions com- mittee. The increasing radius of the geographical distribution of lhe entering classes reflects the many advantages of integrating the work of these two positions, for the alumni have become active recruit- ing agents for good students. \By placing a trained engineer, Professor Anthony Hoadley, into lhe office <Jf the :bursar, Union has one man performing two impm-tant functions at a great saving to the institution. Central Clerical Office A special meeting of the Athletic Board is called for Wednesday, Oc- tober 25 ·to take action. on the report. Although the Department of Athletics heartily concurs in the opinion of the committee, it will be ready to investigate any further propositions which may be ad- vanced by proponents of the sport. After a rather disastrous season last winter, the Athletic Board an- nounced. that hockey would be dis- continued at Union. As a result of agitation for reconsideration of the action, the student body went on record as favoring the reinstate- ment of the sport. As a result of the unanimous student vote for hockey, Professor Wittner announ- ced that the Athletic Board was in favor of conducting the sport at Mariaville and a committee was appointed to make a careful study of the situation. Rule to Bradley Plummer, '36 Regular rehearsals of the three plays of the f·orthcoming produe- tions of the Mountebanks have started. All parts have been cast with the exception of the part of Fellowship in the Morality play \Everyman.\ The Faculty Women's book sale The following cast has been se- will be lleld again this year, open- lected f.or Maurice Maeterlinck's ing on Monday, December 4, and Th This first meeting took the form of an informal gathering, the pur- pose of which being to ascertain the approximate membership and to acquaint new members with the general procedure of the regular meetings. Mr. Kurt Von Forst- meyer, sponsor of the club, ex- plained that the rituals and ideas are modeled after those of the German frater:ilities. He gave an interesting account of the famous German student duels, in w.hich he, himself has taken part. Plans for the club activiUes were also out~ lined. \The individual faculty stenogra- phers have been dismffised, all the clerical work of the college is now concentrated in the administration building. This central clerical force will in no way increase the official Willis Bradley :P!u~nil:ler, '36, has been awarded the slide rule given annually to the highest ranking student of Phi Chapter, Eta Kappa Nu, national honorary engineering society. Plummer, who is a Neu- tral, had ·an average of 8.485 for the last year. The chapter ha:s elected Charles BuckW:ald, '34, as its delegate to the twenty-ninth National Convention of the society, which will take place in Chicago on October 20, 21. t . · f k t'l th \ e Intruder,\ the College Day con inwng or a wee or un L e production scheci.uied for November books are sold. The sale will be under the direction of Mrs. Harri- ~}: Grandfather, Harvey Groesbeck, son C. Coffin who superintended \ 5 i Father, Dean Roylance, '34; the Uncle, Sidney D. Markman the sale last year. All members of '34; First Daughter, Ferdinand the faculty and student body are Helm, '37; Second Daughter, Robert urged to contribute books. McManus, '36; Third Daughter Last year about 1400 books were Thomas Ordway, J·r., '34 ;. Servant; sold to students and townspeople Milton Schwebel, '34; Sister of at a price ranging from fifteen to Mercy, William Mitchell, '36. thirty cents each, Many best sell- The parts of \The Second Shep- ers and Literary Guild books were . herd's Play,\ the first of the two obtained by early purehasers. The Morality plays to be presented at \Dlorz·ad\, nublt.shed At Trn.:on .,n amount realized on the sale last the Annual Fall Production, ])e- .L' 1 r, V J \ .l.J year was $250. This money was cember 8 and 9, will be played by turned over to the student loan the following men: Mak, George 1811 Devoted Solely \'o Lz . .,_e~nfuvL: fund. Stroebel, Jr., '3'5; uxor, William .1. ~ Ll I U< I~ The popularity of the book sale Bennett, '34; First Shepherd, John , wo.s established last year when 700 P. Rooney, '37; Second Shepherd, By FRED FELDMAN books were sold on the opening Robert Smith, '34; Third Shepherd, da:y. There is every reason to be- Julius Sitney, '34; Maria, Clarence lieve that the books offered this Clark, '36. \Gentlemen-the Floriad is com- mitted to your charge-Its life and death are in your hands.\ With this earnest statement to its patrons, the Floriad, Union's first paper put out its salutatory issue, in the spring of 1811. Sixteen years before, in 1795, Union Acad- emy had obtained its charter and become a college. In those shdeen years clubs and organizations had peen formed in the school, among them two literary societies, the Phi!omathean and the Adelphic. These organizations decided that a publication devoted to literature would be ·greatly beneficial to the student :body; as a result, May 24, 1811, saw the first issue of the li'J.oriad, published as a sixteen-page magazine, and· devoted to the de- velopment of \literary intellig.ence\ in the college. The Floliad was one of the earliest college publications in the country. It was about nine by seven inches In size, printed on a good quality paper in a small type. Its contents were made up, for the most part, of essay15, poems and short histories, s·ome o.f which were contributed by the studentJS, and others extracted from the works of the better-known authors. It was printed and: distributed semi- monthly, and the .price was two dollars a yea!'. In its greeting editorial the Flor- iad announced: \This work, to be published un:der the direction of the two principal literary societies of Union College, shall be devoted solely to literature. \--Our plan embraces original es- says-poetry--scraps of biography -history, etc.-together with every (Continued on Page 4) year will be as good, if not better The cast for the second Morality than those offered last year. play, \Everyman is a·s follows: The place of sale has not been Messenger, Robert Jenkins, '37; decided upon as yet, but will be God, Sidney D. Markman, '34; announcP.d later. Death, Dean Roylance, '34; Every- man, Ra:lph Cohen, '37; Kindred, Stuart Eisenberg, '37; Cousin, Rob- ert Wilsey, '37; Goocl¥3, Harvey Groesbeck, '35; Good Deeds, John Dowling, '37; Knowledge, Peter Walker, '37; Confession, Charles Ne•ssle, '35; Strength, Reynold Crane, '35; Beauty, Ferdinand Helm, '37; Five Wits, Julius Golder- man, '34; Discretion, Paul Wass- mansdorf, '34. Daily Assembly Speakers Tomorrow-Professor Leonard C. Jones Tuesday-Professor Harold A. Larrabee, \Why Study Philos- ophy?\ Wednesday-Professor M. Ligon Ernest Thursday--Thomas J. Crowley, Jr. '34, \Debating\ Friday-Prof. Elmer A. Tid- marsh, Music PI DELTA EPSILON There will be a meeting of Pi Delta Epsilon Tuesday ~fternoon at 4:30 in the Publications Office in Siliiman Hall. (Continued on Page 4) Dr. Mosely, New Instructor, Prefers Small College and Discussion Method By CARLTON GARRISON The textbook-method and lecture- method of modern education must gradually be displaced by the class- discussion-method, believes Dr. Philip Mosely, the new instructor in history. Doctor Mosely is thor- oughly convinced that to prepare men for the life they must lead in this world of changing enkonment, where they must be able to dis- cuss intelligently the many prob- lems that arise, it is necessary that the student have an abundance of practice in discussing fundamental problems in the light of history. Dr. Mosely is also convinced that the small college is the best place in which to develop one's training in a:ttacking .problems of a dis- cursti:ve natUTe, fur it is only theTe that close contact between profes- sor and student is possible. He pointed out that the better univer- sities such as Harvard are l>reruldng down into \small colleges\ in order to recapture that priceless informal relationship between teacher and student, which is essential to the menta:! development of both. Discussion in Class The substitution of class discus- si<ms for the lecture and textbook method as the focal point in mod- ern t>ducation requires not only in- creased responsibility on the part of the student to prepare himself by wide reading outside of the class room, but also versatility on the part of the professor who in addi- tion to his thorough training in the history of his subject must be sufficiently informed concerning historical problems in order to ca:rry on the discussion properly. Discussion also enables a man to read more intelligently because in a iliscussion it is necessary to pick out the universally important facts and to subordinate the unimportant or specific ones. This increases the ability of a person to get the most out of his reading and en- ables him to select ihe reading matter which pertains to his sub- ject. Studied in .EurQpe Dr. Mosely c·omes to Union from H!l!rvard where he was an inSJtructor in history .last year. He also lec- tured on the subject of Current History at the Massachusetts Uni- versity Extension. He was gradu- ated from Harvard: in 192B and during the years 1927 and 1928 he (Continued on Page 4)

Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1933 @ • • \em a~thors, not on!~- in the fiction field, but. ii ========~====================~, ... a .. n .. ·rfl tfttll(. l:lt al~o Ill t!H' mm-fi~tton. The editorials per- R.A.N.DO··M o.-.B. SERV· ·AT.I.o··N:.s V J,..J,J : 11.411· .4J 1 tam to the mo:st tmwly subject:::; of the cam- 1 ;----------------------.~!pus. Essays 011 }Wl'tinent topics are pub- I By :MUSIC by Rankine Hinman \.:1 Causa l'nsa l'm·nlo A·8Srti'' J:o'ou Nlli:D 1H7!i \ . lislwd. . . _ . \ . 1 Sidney David Markman To tlw st urlvnts of l mon ('olll'g\<' \'.'<' sn~·. I \J' d . · l\ I, •t • 1· ------ ------ Tlnpr• m•·•V<'inrnt;; of \Vidor·~ AffiHated With Pi Delta EpsHon 1 ,pa \ lllll' Jl1:1!!a7.11H'. '0!' I IS \'Otl.J' marra- powerful Seventh Symphony and · · '1 · I · . • • ,... i • Lm~~ luund lll futhlltent\. \\'Ii'tt<·n The'' .shuutd 'have ne\'ct· li1·ed' b£'- f · Zl'llt' t 1~ tIt' work < l v Hl 1 11 ]' t J .-clclal anuHar :uacDowell pirf'£'~ i • · • · • · J • 0' · e U\\'S, •ll , uy an doll\·ltiic otuuent.) yond ·infancy: Antl the poor Ru~- .• twuld n.akc Dr. Thlmat·<'h's recital 1 alJu\'e all, lt:<td tht: magatillt' ful the cnjuy- F•· .. m .J. t:. tu XXXX ~Ian .peao:;a.nts who -take their bath this Sunday of mole than uEual in- each ~!Jllng with the ti:U\1 mg of thl• . Lt:lcot tu the \tudcnt ·b,•d.''· DeblL~- ment you can get from it. Do not, howeYer, The luolatoz.:;· nn:t in solemn con- . ice, l;hould ·never have been .born at J clave aU! . ciey'.:; \Afternoon of a Faun\ and The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fridays throughout the college year, except during Christmas and spring r~esses. skim through each issue of the publication In order to be told how editors * * Prelude and Fugue in A minor by d tl l t · l misbehave Th Bach complete the well-b-alanced an promp y re ega e lt to t w wa::;L.eua::;ket. Sai'd the .mentor of .the boar·d '··· h·I'\ h e Baptists certainly knew what program with their respectively Jm- c~ ~ t ey were -doing. Dancing is no · · 1 · h t Take it home. Be proud to show it to your children of prid:e more than an excuse to put your pressiomst c asslC c arac er. As he cao>t his eye 'roun·d either arms a 1 , 0 und a woman, around. In no symphony is Widor more family, to your friends, and to their friends. side: whom you want to .put your arms. vigorous than in his Seventh; the Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., T.elephone 4-4141 'Entered at the Schenectady P<Jst Office as S~ond Class Ma:il Matter For The Idol is truly ·someth·l·lcQ: of ,,. 111 -ch. The m0t juste must appear i·n each * * • massive elegance of the opening '~ ' phrase and line · Moderato with its bold theme is Ever notice a box of Quaker Oats · tl b b · fl t d you may be mx~oud. . But never expose the naked worm· . h quie y ut s1:1 ostantrally re · ec e \~ of time wit . a Qu<aker holding a box of in the dignified Lent0, which ·Dr. ds h (,!uaker Oats with a Quaker hold-· T'd h '11 't s d I th Ll .ke\\l'se .to tile stu·deilts \''e say, \Coll·trl·- Blunder.buss wor ·may !3.Ve their . I mars WI omi un ay. · n. e Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. .Telephone, S~henectady, 4-0133. Address all business communications to Arthur J. Katz:berg, Kappa Nu House, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. All other communications to George R. Cory, Jr., Psi Upsilon House, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD .George R. Cory, Jr .............. Editor-in-Chief Arthur J. Katzberg ......... ,Business Manager C. Wllliam Huntley ........... Managing Editor Robert H. Smith .....•............ News Editor Arnold J. Friedman .............. Sports Editor Prince E. Oleson ................ Feature Editor JUNIOR BOARD C. Hathaway M. Berger D. Moulton J. Woolman R. Diamond WHAT DOES l'l' MEAN? Staunch supporters of Garnet teams ' ., vogue mg a box of Quaker Oats w-ith a. AHegro rna n0n tropo the music bute to The Idol!\ The ·I11a2'azl'ne ~11d 1 'ts But those whe use them are simply Quaker holding a box of Quaker grows in .strength tm, in the clos- ~ <• Oats , .. ? 'r'hat's intinitey· ch1ldren. · All · t d . I rogues. Ing egro vr vace movemen , a e 1tors are a ways more than glad to receive ;:>lever tor·get concrete details * * • restless theme is proposed and Y OU!' contributions. It canilO·t tee dent'ed that Regardless whether truth prevails SHAMEFUL!!! So screamed this' dramatically developed with accum- \' The sal,t jars and bU:tter tubs must estimable sheet last issue. There ulaiing brilliance and excitement. there is much latent talent undiscovered appear in your pages was no one at the football game ex- The MacDowell numbers, which h In order that they be tead by future cept a lot of townies. More people precede the Symphony, are \To .a upon t e campus. What a wonde.rful chance sages. went to the Mountebanks than to Wild Rose, \To a Water Lily,\ for individual literary developme11·t! Do llO·t Each Idolator departed with the this last football game. The score \With Sweet Lavender\ and \A lesson in his heart 450 to 400 head. Shameful indeed. Sea Song.\ There is healthy fresh- wait for the solicitation of your works. Offer Each determined to write some- lt looks lil~e Union College is going ness in the work of this American tl 1 eln. thing to,, mak,.e the* world start .. the way oX all ilesh. But bc:>ys re- romanticist who once occupied the • member, let's be artistic. Yes, yes, chair of music at Columbia; anum- To the alumni we say, \Subscribe!\ Spend that quiet evening- at home with a fine pub- lication. There is more than one hour o.f enjoyment in its pages. The pl'ice you }Jay is small compared to the delectation derived from The Idol. Soon You will receive a letter urging you to subscribe. We urge you not to hesitate, alumni. The loss can be yours. FENCfNG-A MINOR SPORT? Marry a beautiful woman, teach by all means, let's be artistic. ber of ·his songs were written for her to keep her mouth shut, and * * * the University. Although his com- all will be well. There is really What is a chair? It lowers me positions are distinctly program- nothing so disheartening as to have in the eyes. of others. That is why matic, as their poetic titles suggest, to took upon the face of a homely l prefer to stand. MacDowell has succeeded in pre- woman in the morning. '' * * senting not merely vealistic con- * * * Seen last spring on the bulletin c-rete detail but a true expression Why is it .that a shower at night board of tne First Methodist of the mood awakened by the pic- is so different from a shower in Church on State street: \Is Your ture. Throughout his music, even the morning\? I took a shower this, Mother Proud of You?\ Why yes, in its emotional harmonies, the morning and when 1 came out I of course. treatment is carefully refined. beheld the sun streaming in the * * * Debussey, founder of modern window, like it does in poetry. How Lines written to a freshman: musical impressionism, has breath- di!J er ent it is when lighted by the I feel as though my heart will ·burst ed a strange and beautiful atriws- two watt lamp provided by the col- A thing of woe on me was cursed. phere into his \Afternoon of a lege (under the auspices of the pur- Nine month:s of hard and patient Faun;\ even more than MacDowell, .:;ar-gadgeteer!! !) I have heard tell labor he has developed a programme of men who live to an indetermin- No it lays charred my patient labor. music which evokes emotions in- able number of years just because I worked, I strived, I sweated, 1 spired by images rather than the they take cold showers each morn- swear, Images themsel·ves. In this number ing. W,hy don't people who take In that math .class. I flunked. What a faun wakens in the woodland and The interest displayed in fencing at Union hot showers and at mght live as do I care · . · \endeavors to recall an experience long too? And how about those who * * * of the previous afternoon. He is to m.ake their presence known to the players, has assumed such tremendous importance ~~~~t o~!.hf~~ ~~i~io~~~ ~~~~~~~~ lis{~~ ?wh;~ ~~m!heli~f~~oi~~ P~~~ ~~~w~ i~u~e !~~~e~unthU:dw~~~ f · tl1at 1't 1's sel'l.OU\lY bet' ncr cons1\dex·ed as a in .poetry and the funny sheets? city. ny.mphs that flit through the shad- or though the team be losing or wmning, · · ~ · <=> • ' ows of his memory are real or a travel a hundred or more miles to see a game on some opponent's field. Numbedng twenty or less, these enthusiasts never fail they are always ready to give an encoumging minor sport. And rightly so. ABOVE SENTIMENTALITY reportorial style. He presents his ~~~a:~~ al£:n~~~d~I~s~~~ t~ sV~~: F h t \- t d t 1 b factual data and is quite content cheer to the athletes in general or to some 'or t e pas LWO years s u en s 1ave een lllra. Ba?TY with that alone. The journalistic Expect Fine Concert Season individual leaving the game. working indefatigably t0 perfect their form. Under the capable direction of MR. KURT VON FORSTI\IEYER a strong nucleus has Perhaps the larger portion of the student body wonders just how much this support helps in winning a game. If they knew, been develop-ed for a varsity team. By Frederick Niven. E. P. Dutton & Co. $2.50. tendency is marked because it is The current concert season, probable the author has marle ex- which had a brilliant and early tensive use of newspaper files to opening Saturday night when Mar- refresh his memmy. Fa:cetiously, eel Dupre ptayed in .Memot·ial one might say, \this cop remem- Chapel, promises well. The Civic bers\ with the excellent aid of po- Music Association will bring the lice records and the friends he has Boston Symphony Orchestra, the Don, Cossacks, and Jose Iturbi, made during the length of his pianist. Charles Heffernan is .pro- career. mating Rosa Ponselle, John Charles NOTES ON OUR CONTEMPORARIES 'WILLIAMS more of them would certainly think it worth There are those students, however, who while to follow the team on some of its trips. believe that there are not enough participants A player on the football eleven was asked, to warrant such a move. This is altogether \What does the Union cheering mean on an erroneous. There are five or six candidates opponent's fiel'd to the team?\ Here is his for the golf team; twenty-five men from the ·answer: freshman class alone have turned out for .b.mdliness and fortitude are so seldom to be experienced in this world today, that to have them viv- idly brought to us in the person of .Ylrs. Barry is an unforgettable pleasure. .IY!r. Niven has written a touching, well modulated master- piece in depicting the homely vicis- :>Itudes of a woman of simple means and charitable dispositiOn. She lacks education, but she pos- scs:;es a fund of knowledge of the things which are secured spontan- eously through the heart, rather than through the more prosaic mind. President Garfield Resigns Thomas, and Josef Hoffman, pianist whom many Europeans consider greater than Paderewsky, while the Detroit Symphony Orchestra and AJ,bert Spalding are on the series of the \Chromatic Concerts ·Of Troy. We may also expect the usual fine concerts in Memorial Chapel by the Schubert Club and Thursday Mu.si- cal Club under Dr. Tidmarsh. \It means much. A coach I had in pre- fencing. When golf, which arouses little in- paratory school told the students there he terest in the student body, is classified as a minor sport, fencing certainly should be. considered a team on its home :field six stronger than when playing the same nent on the latter's field; other would probably put the :figure higher. when a group of Union supporters f the team, they tend to create the \home field\ atmosphere, the \never say spirit. These supporters certainly make the team stronger.\ Tomorrmv the football squad goes to Am- herst. Later in the s.eason it will travel to Williams and to Hamilton. If the under- Others believed that it entails a great ex- Fencing, the minor sport, would be ve than fencing the intramural The equipment is already furnished. ion to Williams or Lafayette ld be furnished by members of the team out expense to the college. The only added expense incurred by the college would be the a\varding of letters, which would be an incentive to the members of the team. Certain students would have you believe With Mrs. Barry, we find her young son, Neil, a fellow who would bring vexation, heartache and happiness to the mothet• who wished to do so much for him with so very little at her command. He is superbly set down. His inquisi- tiveness and untactfulness are truly •boy-like and unheeding of the rleep hurt they bring to his mother. She accepts his adolescent ques- tioning and carries it off gracefully and shrewdly until the danger is passed. Mr. Niven does remarkably well in keeping the story above senti- mentality. His style depends con- siderably on the fineness of his. use of dialogue and his characters spealt only for themselves. He builds a story somewhat remi- niscent of the work of Katherine Mansfield. However, his quality goes deeper than hers-he has, as she had, a gift for extracting the essentials of a little episode so that every word secures a worth and richness of effect seldom obtained in literature. The loving kindness After serving Williams College as President for a quarter of a cen- · II tury, Dr. Harry A. Garfield handed week's Best Editorial in his resignation .Saturday, to be- ''>a=============;;!' Weigh the Costs come effective June 30, 1934. The - Trustees immediately expressed their deepest reg.ret at his decision and appointed a committee to pre- pare a list of men to be considered for the vacancy. The great American tradition of working one's way through college appears to have been forced on an alarmingly large number of stu- dents this year. Men and women ·of aU four cl!asses have come to the campus with capital enough to last a week or a month .and nothing more, confident they can crash through with some sort of a job to keep them alive. And most of them will find their jobs. Too often have students footed their own bills at Syracu~e to say that it is impos- sible. But is i.t worth the cost? Dr. Garfield, son of James A. Garfield, twentieth president of the United States, reached his seven- tieth year on Wednesday, October 11. In tendering his resignation to the Trustees, he repeated the words of Jlilark Hoplcins, who at the time of his retirement in 1872, said, \I wish to resign that it may not be asked why I do not resign.\ Dr. Garfi·eld did not announce his rea~ sons for leaving the · office. His action came as a surprise to stu- dents and faculty. graduates want the eleven to have a success- that fencing should not be made a minor sport ful season, if they would like to see the team because it would not be practised or used of Mrs. Barry, the co·arse, unskill- Scholarships ful ministrations of her neighbors, the youthful vitality of Neil com- bine to form a work of fiction which is grandly close to life itself. We've heard about the self sup- porter being the best student, and we don't believe it. There's no cor- r~lations between poverty and intel- ligence. There_ are as many studi- ous sons and daughters of wealthy parents as there are of less affluent families. But all sons and daugh- ters of the more fortunate enter college jus.t as all other childll'en enter high sch'Ool. H appears tlra.t not more than a quarter of these forturtates are students; the rest \go to college.\ Among the poorer class, only the siudents consider matriculating. g-olf. who play Nor A JOURNALISTIC COP make a good showing on foreign grounds, after graduation, as would tennis or there is the chance for them to really help This is irrelevant. A football plaYer the Garnet win. Then when the victorY is graduates college does not necessari1y won, they can, and deserve to, share the footba;]l after a strenuous day's work. does he play the game at all after graduation .A Cop Remembers glory. THE IDOL The remarkg to follow mig·ht appropriate- ly be d.irected at the members of the class of 1937. Nevertheless, it would undoubtedly be fitting if the members of the three upper classes would take notice. We have on our campus a quarterly maga- zine which has been adjudged to be one of the :finest literary publications in the east. Yet this publication, The Idol, has contin- ually received but scant attention. The magazine is indeed worthy of much more notice. The quality of the material publish- ed ts of unusually high quality. In addition to short stoties, The Idol likewise contains reviews of many of the latest works of mod- By Captain Cornelius W. Willemse. unless he becomes a coach or a 'Professional. E. P. Dutton & Co. $3.00. Captain Willemse's book is an ac- The idea of 'sports for all' at Union is to de- count of a life-time spent actively l d ld hil th on the New York City police force. ve op an mou men now w · e ey are Beginning with the ra:cy., humorous still young, not when old and tottering. It narrative of the author's voyage to America after his running away aids greatly in the co-ordination of n'lind and from Holland, the book continues swiftly and soon is talten up by body. Where, but in fencing, is this more Captain Willemse's adventures and escapades in the famous, or rather significant? infamous \Tenderloin\ district of New York's Bowery. The fact that other colleges ·Of Union's The arduous steps upward to- ward the detective bureau cap- size have not made fencing a minor sport is taincy bring to the author a host no criterion. Union, who is far advanced in of intimate glimpses Into the sor- did and gruesome lives of New her educational p01icy, should be advanced York's meaner, more unfortunate social classes. The stories a:re in her athletic policy. We must lead-not fol- bluntly told, occasionally with a tq_uch of sentimentality; then again low. It remains for the student body to with pathos and even with indig- nation. voice their opinion. Shall we make fencing His philosophy of life is express- a minor spOlt at Union or no? That is the . ed in loamy phrases and one finds no deep probing into causes and nuestion. effects of the fanta-stic people and '' eve>nrts he sets down orf ·US d!n, hds Despite the problems. of general financial ddfficulty with which the college is faced, the Committee on Scho1ars·hips has awarded: more general scholarS>hips than ever be- fore, 135 men having been chosen. At present, the total scholarship aid amounts to $29,875 for the first semester alone. WESLEYAN Campus Chest With abo-ut two-thirds of the col- lege body subscribing, the Campus Chest bud,get stands at $1,000. The 1933-34 budget reads $1,050 for cam- pus .activities and $850 for off-cam- pus activities. The working student may equal the academic proficiency of the non-working student. But if he hopes to assimulate the cultural phase of the university, his life will be one of frustration. Lectures, plays, arts, poetry there is little time to enjoy. Thinking is a lux- ury which he dare not indulge too much, day dreaming never. He HAVERFORD hasn't the time. Celebrates Centeruiial And what about the physical re- Eight hundred alumni attended sult? Often the stuclent slave grad- uates a physical wreck. Today the Alumni Centenary Dinner given there are seniors on ±he Hill with in the ba:ll room of the Penn Ath- bad stomachs, with rotten teeth, l~tic Club in Philadelphia Saturday poor eyesight, anaemics unable to mght as a climax to the celebration afford proper or sufficient food of the one hundredth anniversary forced to forego .the luxuries of ~ of the f<Junding of Haverford Col- dentist or an .occulist. lege. Without detracting from the In- Six New T'ennis Com·ts esti.mable benefit o~ uni:versity edu- cation, we a::~k: Is 1t worth the per- Dean H. Tatnall Brown, '23, has manent physical handicap to which announced that his cla:ss will give it subjects the ·student who must the college six new tennis courts meet his own .blll.\3'? as the first step towards the carry- An \A. B.\ means nothing if not in:g out of Haverford's athletic plan an able body-From Syracuse Daily for her second .century. Orange. I. ·'

------------ \: : .. '.' • \\ ' ! I i', It,.'··' i .· ...... : ... ,,t .....,• I •: 'i I· t '·! ' • t ~ ~,I ' l ~ .. ,: 1 Ill l>: it ~'\ \ { } :·: '1 ! 't { ; ': '' •' ! .... 'l:· .-. \- ~:. ~.: ._, •. t•-:. :~ Et..!lb•!J:d }-~,, •• :!.· ;-:.._ L ii t·allt.}Jll~. TLt t·~. ,-.~. ;-.:., .. !;1. _\,:<!~ ··.~ .. - a .. !· !.· J. Kal/.ber;. h-'l'l'·' Sc!~t lll'l __ ·t~u.\ .... ...; 1 to t,_;l-,ifr-;L' ·1~ L·,,r:,, ;-:.,·!.t•::t·t·~:t·!Y \ :1 . \'. '.- ; '. tl ,:_. t·.· \__ _i: l i SENIOR BOARD lit•t•l')..:,l' i~ l\·:~ J·· Arthur .. L E . .t~~~~-~-·. (' \\';!:litlll H;.L:.,-~ H.tJbt-·!! II ~:1 .. ~~- .. \ n~· dd .J F! :~-~~::. t.L Pz-:ru·t· E l ,,, -:~ :--; 1. i·· JUNIOR BOARD ( '. Ila!ha\\:•v :\I J;,·rp·: · }I_ .:\1 Ll,'.,,;, .I \\' \\ H.\T HOJ:.; l r \IE\\.., . ...:.t;.lu: ('! ·'' ~~ ;t.! 1 il I 1:! ..... 1j ,·, t \-\ t' I! 1 .\ I 1} J. -...,.. ~ i tl -t·' j·':':! l: ··.- I I '1.\ ', , I I I' .l_-. • t' ., '1, ('' l't I\ l11 ti I' ~.tll:t·tt ~ I I,,, ... I ) . \·II: i ~ I.... t j I t·' \ ... c~.-. \\\:dt'l' I •i : 1 !'\' -- • U , t', : l i . \ I• '\' j ; '\ jll ' ., t'• Lt ; l'l . \ IIi. f \ ! ; l ·, II 11 I 'l ~ 1 f • l I t li I . j_;.i t t t ' I ....... 1·· .~ · ·leS. pe. It· : L· .''- : I . ! • ~ - .,. . ! \-I .._ i I t I I ) I I j-: !• 1• .1:: ,tl ... :.·· r. .• .. · 'I'' . r l 1,1 ' ·' ' •' It Ti t·l, li: _\-' ;;, ~ ! • .,. TilE IDOl I. I ;~ Uut--less we· ' .' l:,t·· ':it ·' . : t' l \ ~ ~ ! :' ; '•l!' I ··1·•}.· J .. ,J.j I t < t I' ·, · r 1., \\ . .,._ I 11:• · . ,·' 1 y, 1 :i .. 'I, I\'. I • ·r·· ·, • ·d t; 1 \if'•·. rl•!ji· f 1: ld ,·~:·.tt--11· -· •I, - ~ .. J 1, f ) 'I ., . , ,·! \\I' I 1 : ,,t\ :lr• J i • I·:\ 1 ; ' Ill 1• i (!I·' ,lt I' ,._., j•- ; d' ., .. (. ' .11 .. · ' . ~ ' . Ti, !, -l: 'I )I •>tj T ! : I : r • r l \ r • r 1 : : 1 1 1 1 · ', , 1 < l· ·! : ' 1 1 \ \\ () r · T c 11 : F ! : 1 : ~ 1 ~r;: ~ ,, ·,. •,1-i. ' t • • • ~ · .. I '11 \· ··. li (• ;·, 'I . ' 11 I •'•I ;: It • \I (, ,. t I' ,\ ' '_l '' i ' ' .. t'.t n , .q. II.' I ' I I ; ,, ... · '' • I i: .. r .. i ,ll \' : •• 1 l' j:•· 1 ;1. I • .{'I · .. ., ,{ '!, ••• ' ' ·' it • ~ J : t }, \ ·'• i,, ·II . '' '1. .\ ''\' ': ,: ' > ~ • ll •, \ \ I .. :· l.l•' \'. • i' t' I. . ' '.t· ''' \\ '.l_ .!l ,,j .J ,, .! , ,I ~ ~ ' I I' tl.. ; t ·'.' -::i-' i I ;- .t •. I I I I I ' : ~ l I , ,. ,., ••. ! ~~r ,, ,,,. .,,; i I· :I t l• ; , ,J ''· Tl : ... ! i :I,. i :· .. «\'--\T .... <, ______ _.. _____ , .. ,.., ... _________________ - w---- M-~;lc-- OBSERVATIO~~S By t J c, l . f I\ I i I '' .r· · o1nrrcm I l ------ ·-----~------- _______ __.....) \\ ... Sidney David i\~arkman I. •• lo ·· •• \. i-' ... i ,;1 .... · •l! .:: t· .. \ ', v. ; ;,, ·.' ,; t. \ l ,:. :.r' .. \\ .... ! - L •,I ••• 1\'\ • 1 : j ' ~ t J.· .. ·,t · ;,. .t l~t•'-. ,,.<·! (I t ,\ • t :. ~ l (.i-. ' I~ ( l i ' '• I' •' -:'\. t I , ~ \\ •: ! 'I. ~-~' '• \ . .t It .... I'!' 'l j Iii•-: ll t' v •. t' ~, ! ~ : • t· ' , , < < _.! 1 .- l t\ ':\. t , l ,t , 1 h' , 1' t. ! •:.1. · .nt' 11 1 •• , ··' , ;. ,;; !.·· -:. : .. J l .\; I' ·, : . .~· ''· '•::,< I '•, i \'• i'• 1 ,, \\ . \I I ·,, !' t ,l, ,--.; ,!1. I ' ·.i • -~ .. l' - -: .. ' ' 1' ' ,\ '.' : • t : ' ~ ' ' : . '. J,. ll l• ... 1 r , l•' I· \\ ' 1 I '' 1 il It \.·\ ' !!• .t I. 1 1, :t; 1' ', •. J:.l '· ... ' ':. .l' •. . ·•·\•·. l I . ' i .. ; ' . . .t~. ; i ' .\' .: .. t .... .. ; : I j , .... I I':~ ' •, I 1 t . \ ' . \\ . ,\ : ·: ..... _ ;,,. 1•.· t • , ••• ,, ', \• ...... : l: • I ... ·.' • L I ~~~~ ~~ ; ; ,\•1 I·' .: •. I; I! .• ,: ••. j ;j I l '. \ ' ' I ~. ;, I : • I I I I I . _. , ... .. I ··•·• l'. I i:~· !: ·: .• -t; l , I ···' J 'a;t:• \\ : ,• ':!' !.• t til 1 ••• h • ·'. !. . .... ) . ,.. ·' , .. ·,,. .: \ I, .. I ····I j. ., :1.·111•' ! t' ; I I l \ t-•:~ lfl, I< I \ t I·' ''i-t .tl_ '• It' ; t- : •. , t •. ; . \', ! -;I I~ 1 I: .; j:- lll tl.t• 1: ; I ' 1 \' ! .,\1-,1\ .• , ' t: .:1 tl.t· ('\.1,· ' .. '· ... : . . l,., ~ ' ·, 1•. \-I\ f J \ I j}lt-•}, 0 :1 p! •. , ( -· d ;-t !ld jt··-: •• ,, .• · •• till!. :.. ··lli•·llt ., ., ,,, \' . ' ' I .. '' '' \ ' I \ ; ! t ~ t,- .\ ~, 1 ·, j(- ': :1 .• j It-·•: t! .. . ~ • I t ]\ ll.IL \,I· I I •li I'\ I i\ j ~ l ' t' I·' ' . I J, I I ' t ( ~ ' j-• . '' j, \ ·\\ 'lit:•· \: ·, . ,, , . r :t • ,, ~;,. I., ·•\, : .. _r 1: tt.·t·' 11· !l. ' \ I I ~ ! ' ' I ,• I l ' I~ ' 1: I • l '1-' ·,'I: '• :tl,•; I\'' t·•; ;, ;,, I·' !:o: I ·,1; ',I! :ft·' t·.·· ,,,,., ;-;1-:;, ri\lE\T.\l.l'n . . ·~ •'. 1.'' ,;J I I ~ 1 1 '1 llli.l\ ·, .. ,I' , f, 'J 'I I ; '' '~ :\ • ' ' ~I. ''· ;, 'i''' j'. .. : .. · ·····'· \ .. l' i' ,,,. .I! • ' .: .. :.r .. ;_' • '\1. \ '~ ~ ' ~ , • ., \,I ; i · .. ~ J • ' '.... \ ! I .i .. l .. •t •. ' : : ~ . ' ' ! I ! . ' ;:I,. . ~-~ I· ',\.I. I\ ' , . . ':.;', ·' :-· t' .•. ' '\ Ii• • 1 ~ 1 • , . ' • . !I . t ~ ' t!. '. l. ;.,, \' ._ Lt.• .. i-. 't • :I :1 ' .. :. I :• f ·:: l .: l .. ' ,,,.q,t. 'I .. • J 1 .. , I ' I IJ' l ' - ' ~ !. I ' - • I t \--- : •.. '.1 I'. 1,1.1 ,_; ·.·· t,.· I I' I f. ! : ', t 1 , , I :.· NOTES ON OUR CONTEMPORARIES I ,., ...... ill 'Ill I :.: .. , ' ' .. '... \\.\ '1 .. i'l• ·' j;' t. ,' '· ··' f, 1>: I 1 . • • .\ ~ ; ., ,I ', .. l' . .,. I. ' l ',,' :·-ll•· I' j, ''••: t •. ~l' \ . . .-. • t1 r .. ; . ; . ' . . ' ' ~ :-- . 'I II L• •• . :. ,\' I!; 1'· ;_,,.: ,. i. l • •. 'I ,\ • · • 1.1. : , , .:_ Ii t; •• t • t r, · ·' 11 • • ... .t \.\. \ I ,j l'· .t t, \ 111 .r Itt ,d_ .• td !.• tl.'.• til• t' •I ,I • \' i: l -~ t· , .. t: ,I oll,l''· lq llf•.ptfl' t.l•t-> p!t•b:o-!1~- I 1 'Pf1f! 11 1iJltl1t't.tl d:liH'l:!l~· \\ 1:!1 \\.I 1• I. t ' '-. -~ l ,, .: p 1 f I i' I I!- 1 llt' ( •• fl TJ ! I 1. I·' -':~~\ i' '. ;, ,, ' • ' ' ~ ' ' • ·j : ;\I·'' 'I • ·.·.• f'l'-11 'I lo. i. -: ;,, '1'. j<.t ,I ': t-• ''· t '' +. ·1 11,: l:I't I' : 1 .• , j, jl_• ,, ; 1'. :1-1: ... J ,. I.· • + \: ·' ' ... : I ]l :1 fj •-!:I :\:' :' I.' I; .. , 'It' I ll , ~ I ' :1 'I, ll I·' !\( !t J• • }t • 'I !• ·.t 1 '·f·lll T \' , .... h.\ 11.11. :tl II .. I\\ .\ • I •. . , ' ',,: '· •.. \I' } .. il,• Ill. 'ILl! 'l , .. I :,,,! 1 ) j', I o•·. ·l}t! itllt-•1 II , ''; \ ' till l ! I . ,t V\ t ,l :• f •> i•~:I'IJ. ·'•-• r ll!t·'l :. ': !·'t\ ·L· I• : ! . ;, I•JII-':1 ~ . U.:t! ,\ ,lOUt.\ \LbTIC COP ,:-;,-t,Pi.lt:--hqt~ L-1 ~ :t\\ tid· d !o;- '• ._t·nt·t :11 :--t'Lt•l.tl. t·1p- :·.h .n • ·,-, 1 t~•· I•<~' 1:~-1 li-1·11 };,\,:. __ lH•L f t •· '• • I ! 1 P -1· '·-· ,, . ., t I' I !' It . I I;. , ,. • .\1 Jlll· -!'flt t }_,. t 1•' • 1 -• I I \ li• ! II, \\. ! atti :IJllcllltit\'\' to ~:_!~t .....,-;_-, f 1 t·~ 1 ;,~ '\ tl!~ 111--t·., ~t·nH·--tf·r :t'''n!· .'' I ; I ~~ • !· i' )-~ 1, :dl ;,t - ' ' , , 'i l If t l 1) ~ ·I ·\ ·, ' 1 • \\ 1 • 'I' !.-. • t : , t lj I· ~ I 1 i ! t!, I !11 : . ; . ,, ' ' ~ ; _-- t I ;. l t j I t ·q \'\ I•; ht• 111 ''I <t }; ' 4 l'l;., ' 1 11•' •1•' __ f 'J jo' :t•' •! ~ I : l :~· \'. it' II ',1, f \1 •' I• ':! I • 11ld 1·1.· ,! ! •·! !I j• .,,.J, . ,.,. tl···' ll 11: f 11.- Ill L;:- \\\.iti: :dl •ll' t\\\tJ thitd ': :~- lf-'~P. hr•1i~· t1b-r·:1hi~~__: ti ,. (~ •t ·;•,; 'I,' : t \!·~-- • }111! _, t t ·.n.: . •'!.' • 1'.1:~:~ :~t h~l'~ !·' ! • II: ~1 ,,- Jdi- ·.tt·., ~ 11~.t s ... .-,q r-,~ ~ :. I· ll- ; l ~ ~ . \'It I! __ , ( ···IPI•r·;•t.•·.., 1 '\•It •·nnial I·~ I + ' 1' li l : l : ' • ! • ' I ~ : ·''. ,. I; ,}l t •. :'' fl: :1 ·,, t luh 1'. j·f t l' .,, ; .,• :i:o-• J·· •;•-1: 1'.-' !1 .\1: l··· ·-l i t PI' ~ t\ t ht· ' j I ' 1 f I' I '' • 'I' I 't 1 ! ' 'l: -~ ' ' •. :· t .. t· lt ~lll•i.:,~ 11} li !\·: )I•Jll ('-, I J 1 · 1 t ~ l\ • i · l t ·, 1 ! I . 1 v. 1 ~ '-1 1 ' '-~ ' 'f . I f !'}} ~ ( j·, \ \ I ~ •·· i X ~; , \\ • t • •I: ll , ::- 1 ; :II : 1 ~ ' f 1 l t' • • ~ • ' 1 , '\ I ! f ) I t ·~ f ,, , t • -r i J-,., 1 ,, ,, ,-1 · ·1t t1 1 1 ,,· 1 ,J·, f··:· L· l -t··,tllld (! L.tttiY i· \·•-l·j, __ t' ,- i'''\' t•t .~_,.rot c·tdL-.dt- t I,,._,' !l!'tY t·qiJ:tl r ' ' ':I It· 'II \ f 'f t ~~I' •l ;, I' I lf t,,. I !. t, t ( •'' i. '! -' 1 1 ' ~ \ f' I !J j i lJ 1 ; ~: .. : :1. >ft· \'.ill '-· t ll' , . ~ ' . . I'. '' i-\' _,- , .. 'I ; II:\- t·,.,• ,;•t:_:f. fr11• J.f -,,., II· l • 'I' f ' •' J •! \.- lt :t] l t•- • ',1 t· !~t :1 \-1, ~!'I;! \\:I! l\. T··d:t\ ·n 1 1 :, Ilil: \\1ti1 ,\ : tll I I t f PP t I pt-}. .l l'.'' ., Ill llll ;II) 1 ,. ll I \' ·~ ~· 1 I !11' I : -1Jl! ]l-It !~t f,t)J! '·1 : • 'I t-•·_ I ! l,, l 'l'X 'l! )t-·; tlf :1 i i ;1 fj I oi I l\; I ~f \\ 1 • - ..• ·:, 1 1: '·' 1 • 1 t , t: ~ ~ : .. tn ! ' £' j 11 . tl• .. h l:t-•f'J~ ,,f !!1}\.t •---i~\· Pd1l·- ;l •. 1 1.;, :1 v ... •!l, 1 1 1t' i'f·l- • •· , 1 I;, l j 1 , • Jl ~ , t -.\ I ,)t ~; · • , t :·.:f· !·:: v.J_,. rnu.~t 1· ,\ '' 1' - •li ,, l ll·•<,\ r~ · ·1 ~ • ., nL , f r. tJt i· :JI ~~ l 11'\1:--1· I J:Jll~ t 'I··!-.

I. ·' ' . , THE CON:CORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1933 Three ~-------------------~----~- ---------------------------~----~-------~~----------~------------~--~----~ Union Depends on Linemen to Defeatr' Amherst __ 1f_,omorrow in Massachusetts\ Coach Hatfield Believes Backs Dr. Doty Is Undefeated in,l Can Score Victory Only If Faculty Ten.nis Tourneyl ... Garnet Line Holds Amhe1·st } With four victories and no de-:·1 feats, Dr. Doty heads his colleagues· By MILTON A. BERGER in the faculty tennis tournament. , This fall the tour;nament lacks· THE RESULTS OF UNION- AMHERST GRIDIRON GAMES SINCE THE SERIES BEGAN Union .............. 6 .............. 0 .. ............ 0 .............. (). .•..•..••..... 23 .............. G Amlwrst: 0 0 16 16 6 lU 12 35 6 13 0 F h 0 S . Fijis Reach Final Round of . fOS · pen €3:S0ll Fraternity Football Tourn~y At Home Tomorrow Middlebury Freshman Eleven to Furnish Opposition for Coach Nitchman's Yearlings Phi Gamma Delta advanced to the final round of the fraternity touch football elimination tourna- ment yesterday by defeating Delta Upsilon by the score of 21 to 0. Ad- V3.ncing to the semi-final round are . P;;;i Upsilon as ru result of their vic- ,Harriers Will Meet Williauts at Home Purple Outfit Here Tomorrow With Veteran Team to Avenge Last Year's Loss . tory over Sigma Chi by a 31 to 12 After three weeks of practice the score, and Theta Nu Epsilon by vir- ' Freshman football team will open. tue of their victory over Kappa Nu, T·he Garnet cross country team 26 t 6 T d P · u 'I eets will face Williams tomorrow after- . its sea:son, playing Middlebury o . o ay s1 psi on m What will probably be Unions some of its usual color because of ha:rdest gridiron battle of t~e sea- the absence of Professor w.ain:ger, son outside of the 7 to 7 tie with now spending his year's leave af We~leyan will take place tomor- Cornell, who has waged many a:· row after~oon at Amherst with one hard match with the current leader .. of the strongest teams to represent In the latest matches played the Lord Jeffs in recent years. The Cummins beat Mosely; Larrabee Massachusetts team has defeated defeated Cummins; Rpjansky won 1894 1~01 1902 1903 1916 1917 1919 1920 W21 1922 1923 1H24 1H26 1930 W31 1932 .............. (} .............. 0 .............. 0 .............. 0 .............. 0 .............. 20 ....•..••....• 0 .............. 0 .............. 7 .............. (} 13 25 28 Fresh, tomorrow on Alexander Theta Nu Epsilon in the semi-final noon on the 4 1 h mile Alexander .. ·Field at 2 o'clock. round. course in the first home meet of the ---•0 current season. The team has been 6 12 Summary: Played 16 games; !'nion won 4; Amherst won 10; tied 2. Hobart 38 to 6, a score somewhat over Wold; Doty beat Cummins and ::.....----------------' similar' to tha:t by which the Gar- Larrabee; Fox downed Thatcher; ----------------- net downed the Deacons last Sat- and Palermo defeated Fox and MOFFETT UPSET IN TENNIS urday. Coach G. Elliott Hatfield Wold. is convinced that if Union is to win tomorrow its line must successfully The following are the standings.:· --- W L The first big upset of the intra:- hold back the Sabrina attack. The Garnet backfield has the scoring punch, but will be forced to rely on the linemen. Both the Union and the .Amherst captain will see little service tomor- row. Austin Fox, captain of the Dutchmen. will start at center, but is not expected to play long since he is still weak from the sprain he suffered last week. Warner, full- back and leader of the Lord Jeffs, was hurt in the Princeton game Ia:st Saturday and will probably give way to a substitute early in the encounter. Finch at Tackle Jack Finch, temporary center, will be shifted to right tackle. The coaching staff is considering a change in the line's defensive play. It is planned to shift right guard Don Moulton to right tackle, letting Finch back up the line, and Cap- taln Fox play in the guard position. Three sophomores will play side by side on the left wing of the line, \I.Valdron end; Lambeth, tackle, and Kearns, guard. Krull will be in the other end post. Ralph Sem- erad will again occupy the signal ea1ler's berth, with Chip Dain ready to institute his passing attack from left half. Chet DiLallo will be stationed at right ha1f in his usual capll.city as blocking back, and Harry Chrysler playing at fullback. Jiggs Rotunda and Tom .Acheson will be held in reserve for Dain and DiLallo. For the first time since 1927 Am- herst won the championship of the Little Three last year. The 1932 edition of the Sabrin·as administer- ed a 12 to ·o defeat to the Garnet. Coach Lloyd Jordan, a disciple of the Pop Warner school, stresses Doty ..................... 4 0 mural tennis tournament was Palermo ................. 4 1: scored by Joseph Cohen '36, who Rojansky ................ 1 0· eliminated Jack Moffett, seeded No. Larrabee ................. 1 1 1, in stralght sets, 10-8, 6-4. John Fox ...................... 1 1 Roberts, seeded No. 4, after losing Cummins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 2' the first set, 4-6, hit his stride and Thatcher . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 1 won the remalning two sets and P. A. Smith .............. 0 1 match against Summer hayes, 6-2, Burkett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 1 6-1. In the other matches played Mavor ..................... 0 1 since Tuesda:y Strobel downed Mosely ................... 0 1· Frost, 6-0, 6-1, and Schultz defeated Wold: ..................... 0 2 Dow, 14-12, 6-1. !ROSTER OF FRESHMAN FOOTBALL TEAM Full Name Pos. Wt. RT 175 T 150 c 190 RH 160 FB 160 RT 180 LE 168 FB 145 FB 150 El 155 RG 170 RG 170 Angle. Rkhard W. Arny, Malcolm L. Harton, Hobert A. Brown, Ernest <C. Cnrscnllen, Edward f'nmpbell, Paul, Jr. Iloyle, James Q. Emerson, R. Chapman Englehardt, Philip Estrich, James D. Fagan, Joseph P. Fenton. Donald M. natchell, Frank B., Hn~kell, Cleorge P. Hughes, Wallace R. LeTarte, Duane I,iffiton, Donald Macinnes, Donald MacMurray, Kenneth 1\ful<>.ahy, John J. Pato11, Harris W. Potts, William K., Jr. .Prest. Edward Sloatman, John Jr. Smith, John F. Stephenson, Henry Viscusi, Martin \Yilson, Herbert R. Jr. LT 201 QB 140 QB 155 c 100 LH 150 LE i31 BE 141 RH 120 LG 160 LG 163 G 150 RE 170 FB 170 RT 165 T 155 LH 145 Prep School Hometown *Storm King School, Rochester *Irving School, MontC\lair N. J. *l:nlon-Endicott H. S., Endicott *Gloversville H. S., Mayfield *St. Bernard's School, Watertown *:l!cCallie School, Chattanooga, Tenn. *Roxbury Srhool, Sprlngt1eld, Mass. *Scotia H. S .. Scotia 1\ott Terrace H. S., Schenectady West H. S., Rochester *St. John's Prep, Brooldy.n ll!argaretvil!e H. S., Margaretville *McDonough School, Baltimore, Md. *Hotchkiss School, Huron, S. D. *Hotchkiss Schoo.!, Chi·cago, Ill. Mont Pleasant H. S., Schenectady *Albany Academy, Albany *Manhasset H. S., Manhasset *Manlius School, Brooklyn Will!am Hall HS, W. Hartford, •Conn. Elmira Free Academy, Elmira .. Bloomfield H. S., Bloomfield, N. J. Erasmus Hall H. S., Brooklyn *Glen-Nor H. S., Nol'wood, Pa :Manual Training H. S., Brookiyn Woodberry Forest School, Buffalo Mont Pleasant H. S., Schenectady Albany H. S., Albany *Preceding prep school denotes he played on its football team. smoothness, coordination and speed I in the execution of spinners, re- verses, and bucks. Both the short and deep varieties of the doubje wing-back from · the unbalanced line known as formations A and B are being used. ENTRY BLANK-INTERFRATERNITY TRACI\ MEET Amherst Has Veteran Team Only three regulars have been lost by graduation and ·coach Jor- dan has a veteran combination ex- cept at one tackle a:nd one back- field position. The squad can ·boast of three outstanding players, Arthur English, 185 pound center, Debevoise, a rangy end, and Cap- tain Harold WB.l!ner who calls stg- nals from fu1Ibaek. W-arrHlr hm·t his ankle in baseball and the in- jury has not ·entirely responded to long· treatment, the wound reoccur- ring during .the Princeton game last week. Upon his ability to do heavy duty,. says . Jordan, largely depends Amherst's chances for vic- tory. Murp·h,y and Kehoe, the two ha:lfbacks, are handicapped by poor condition. Brehm, w:ho kicks from the left side, will start at quarter. Moses .:will be Debev.oise's or Leary's r.unrring mate at left end. Skiles and Thompson :will start as guards flanked by tackles Potter and Morse. The Amherst team looked much betbr in the Princeton game·, de- spite the on8'-sided victo1y for the T•lgers than when it beat Hoba:rt 38 tQ 7 a week . earlier. The backs have shown more confidence in handling the· ball, while the line has improved tremendously. Prince- ton's scores were made on trick passes, laterals, and forwards. ---•0--- !NTERl!'RATERNm:Y TRACK MEET The fa11 interft•aternity track meet will be held on October 18 and 19, beginning at 4:30· p. m. each day. All ·students are eligible to compete except members of the football and v:a'l•sity ·cross country squads. 'Each centestant m~y com- pete in no m0re than three avents. Five places will be awarded, with first counting 5 points, second 4, third 3, fourth 2, artd fifth 1. Els8-' ! where on thi·s page is an · ent:vy blank which must be submitted to Coacb Wilford H, Retz by 0ctober 16. NAME OF FRATERNITY 1 . ..... ·········· ········ ............... . 2 100 Shot Put High Jump Discus Pole Vault 220 110 Hurdles Javelin Bxoad Jump ~-~~~~~gTe.L~t ~~~-LM~~L 'BANQUETS \ ·CLUB DINNERS WEDDING PARTIES DAVE MEYERHOF:F 1\N.D -HIS ·FAMOUS ·oRCHESrRA 3 Ev:ery Saturday Night-9 P. M. to I A.M. Nt> cover charge 'Complete' Restaurant Service ·on Saratoga- Road at Ballston Tel. Ballston 200 In preparation for this game sev- Cummins and Bennett Lead running with good balance and era! sc·rimmages have been held prospects for a victory in the. meet during the week. The fii·st team Faculty Horseshoe 'Tourney look bright. Lape will probably · scdmmaged with the varsity scrubs lead the Union men, with Kazmier- and scored four touchdowns, hold- czak second. ing their opponents scoreless. Be- Professors Cummins and Bennett This will be Williams' first meet cause of .a wrist injury Englehardt,. advanced to the lead in the faculty of the season. Last year on the regular halfba:ck, was forced to horseshoe tourn·ament dur·l·ng the W\ll\ U · h t · t· f th •ct l\ 1 1a:ms course, n1on crus ed her wa en ne game rom e Si e 1nes .. past week. The .two represen.tat 1 \ves Coa h N ·t h 1 d · hi 1 opponents with a perfect score, 15 c 1 c man P aye m s P ace of the Department of Economics t 40 C 1 H I and showed that he still is a dan- each scored two vi'ctori'es. and are o . ape te, o leran, Boerner, b II · b · Kazmierczak, and Teele all crossed gerous a ~earner Y gomg o¥er tied 1\n the numbers of games won, h fi f t hd d I · t e nish line together in 25:54.2, a or one ouc own an ma ung sev- although Professor Bennett has lost I fl h H h d new course record. Mirate, the sev- era a:s Y runs. ug es an a match, while his rival has yet to Brown played well, each getting· ·bow i·n defeat. <:nth Union runner finished ahead f f 12 t 15 d of the first Williams man. away or runs o o yar s. In the games played recently 'The whole line performed well on Cummins defeated Larrabee and Coa:ch Seeley of the Purple squad the defense, stopping the scrubs Bennett; Bennett beat Hurd and has been busy sending his men time after time by their hard tack- Hall; Bacon won over Thatcher; over the Taconic course and the ling. and: Stucler defeated Hall. adjoining Berkshires. He has thir- Played Mohawk D&y 'l'he standings up to date follow: ·teen veterans and sophomores on The second team scrimmaged w L his squad. Four members of last against the Mohawk Day School Cummins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 0 year's team, Captain G. Goodbody, twice this week and outplayed Bennett .................. 3 1 '34, Crowfoot, McVeigh, and them both times. Fenton and Pat- Bacon . , .. , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 0 L'Ecluse, '35, form a strong nu- ton, guards; and La Tarte, center Studer ................ , . , 1 0 cleus, well supplemented by two were outstanding in their defensive Thatcher ................ , 0 1 promising sopilomores, Gregory and work, while Has;kell and MacMur- Larrabee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 1 Ninole. Other sophomores include ray, backs, led in the a:ttack Hurd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 1 Anderson, Bartlett, DePeyster, Fler- agalnst the preppers. MacMurray Clarlt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 1 s·heim, Ha:zelton, McConnell, and proved himself a tricky runner by Hall . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 3 Sterret. squirming through the Mohawk r;=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=: team 20 yards for a touchdown. The probable starting lineup for the Middlebury game will be: ends, Doyle, and .Sloatma:n or McKan; tackles, Gatchell, and Campbell or Angle; guards, Potts and Fagan; center, Barton; with Hughes, Liffi- ton, Brown and Englehardt com- . prising the .backfield. Fagan and Englehardt may not be able to play because of .injuries. Other men who are likely to see service are Patton and Fenton, guards, La Tarte, cen- ter; and Haskell and MacMurray, backs. The game will start at 2:00 p. m. With the following men officiating: Rafter, Syracuse, referee; Wil- liams, Michigan State, umpire; and Miller, Cornell, ·hea<l. linesman. BERG AT YALE Dr. Berg is to lecture at Yale on October 25. The sul;lject of his lec- ture will be, \Heavyside's Opera- tional Calculus.\ DEWITT'S LUNCH THE ACME HOUSE LINEN SUPPLY CO., Inc. Rents Linen for all Occasions (You pay for Laundry Work only) 1030 BARRET ST. Phone 4•931 0 SATURDAY and SUNDAY EXCURSION TO NEW YORK CITY A beautiful ride during the falL season in modern de luxe motor. coaches at the very reasonable price of $5.00, including room in Hotel Taft. . Twin beds and pri- vate ·baths (two people in a room.), Hotel Taft is one of New. York's finest hotels. Bus fare alone is $3.50 round trip Secure your reservations· now ST. REGIS PHARMACY Charles R. Carey, Prop. 600 Union Street PHONE 4-1123 ·- -~~ UNION'S OLD STANDBY Our Work and Prices Are Competitive GARNET TAILOR Opposite New City Hall 11-8 Jay Street A. E. and E. L. WADE PHONE 2-6836-R 305 Liberty St. Tel. 4-0122 THE HENRYiS BARBER SHOP BARBERING and MANICURING 4 N. Y. C. Arcade PRINTERS AUCHENPAUGH'S .BRASS RAIL Steamed Clams, Hot Butt.er, 25c A Whole Cold Boiled Lobster, SOc Enjoy Yourself at RICHARDS Among Intimate .Surroundings BILLIARDS and BOWUNG 506 State Street Rosendale Florist Jay St., at Franklin A ·PLACE TO MEET A PLACE TO EAT The Home o.f the Hot Roast Beef Sandwich The Drinks You Have at the 19th Hole on the Links 8 STATE STREET PHONE 2-6135

TilE ('0\\COI~I>II-:\':-'1~. l:l:Ill.\Y. (}('Tfli!J-:1~ 1:~. In:~:~ Tb!'t•' t;;,qpr, /lvsT•N Fox ':JS lf.I·n·em·en to Defe'\Jit 1 :--------- .L l1l.l 'i'lii·: IU,..;l I.TS OF l \10~,. Union DelJends on Amherst Tonnorrow M I tt ' .\:1-Hii::.H''i' liHHIIHO:\' (i.\ \!I·.\' Ill assac lUSe s i ~~~,( 1': TIU: \'1- •. lm·:..; nu; \:\ ( 'o.tch IlaHid·l ndi('H'S Baeks !'an :-lt'O!'<' \. idnry Only H (;:mwt l.im• H(lld-. .\mlwr,..t :llH .Til.'\ \. BLH<a:n \\' .. \!II p:,b.h:y h· l'1il''n·:- ·.: t•L 1 ... 1, dt t•· '•t t !w -t ;t- ' Ill • II t t flt 7 1'11 7 t ,t \\ It l, \\ 1 t , 1 I, '.·'! j l ~' ko J•! I t'o• t !Ill' 1!- J .-.\ ,;!'. ''-'\ !! ,· .\tflt '! t \\.:!I tdlt' •. .... • •. , 1 t, ·r.;- t.· ;.·,.: t· ···rt l!.• I ;,,d J,. I Jl • ('. t y··;tl 'I. I ;.: . 'f_ l t. .. . I! •. ' . t t···! l I. I· •. ·, _, • · t • • n.· '' h· t I !I il t. \J\ \'. t:> L t h. I; I' L• t do.\'- J'· 1 !.1 ! ), .. tl ••\:- 1:. 1' :-;;Jt it I I. ( ', I ; I: .. ·' ·t. I i·tt: •. ' !d lh·. Bot~ Is rndefeated in Facultv Tennis Tmll'EH'\' [ .• , ; 11 i 1111 \ 111lll' r ... ,. . . \\.ith flllll \'it·lrl! H-· ... :t.lld nn d1· ,;t··.t- !)!. Jlt,.t\ };t·ttlL--. lu:-- l'OJlt•·t...:lH-- ·~ 'i.1· f:wt:.'\ lt'tllll-~ t'J~tltllalnt·Lt Lt:l •}\ t·,,u: n:t:: t·nt .;tl L.- ::.~~· of 11.- ll 1:::: f'r•!PI ht•• ;ttiLt• •; '~~I :dt.-t'IH'i !If PI tlft -,--Ill \\':t.ill:....:t·! 'ill\\ ~fwlltl\:lt:.~ hi:· \ l'd! lt-:t\t' :1~ ···Jt~,:i. \\f\ r::·-. \\:t:..:t·d n~·~~:~: :1 r:·t11: tt.:J.h·h \'.\It/;. t!:l' t'lll !Pill lt• 11h 1 !it t ~'I' ! . t t' ( - : Ill' I 'I' I - I I, I.\ I I . :''UI!liilllL--. }H•lt .'\{t 11\; l.:ttt:dut I\ \II t, ! :1- :l :tlt·o: ('Jill~IJll~l~. J:,•lll;,.}{y \\••11 ·,··:- \\·,.:.,!: lltt·~ l1.·:t t~r·I!1t:t11i:- :tl~,.~'------------------' I .'1! I :tlH•t•: 1-'t·X dto\L. llt•rl T!:.tlr·f,;), 11 •: l •;j.:l : IJJI' I it·; t 'It 1'1! I~·, •X . !it! I \\ ,,; d l , , ·t •· .. n· ·' , f l ·,:.(In t-. t' ~ \\\In : fo);JLII: ,ro·,\ , 1 ,< > ; ll•'l I !,J:I\ 1 Ti:t· ! '.::, J\\ in.~ a.J, tl!t-' . : !I:•, 1 . , , : . 1 r . , 1 \ \'\' ,, ~ 1 ll ; 1 : , ~ t . c • l\ · 1 · ~ : • I: l\l• }!,.· I t),, -1 1ol ;:l · 11 !f:t· 1: ·I, !I.• 'I.: . ,•; \\\ ..... ,\1i. r 11 ' ', !'.'1. 1 II !lttl I '\f I • 0 fJ;· · ..• :1·., I 1• 1 ! I : L , n. ,·Jq~ ' .. 1 .. 1 I J { I I 1 i I I ! t l ~' -I·:\ \, '\ f ':t 1 ' tJ .\\_ l IJ•f -~; !l I t t )•o• '. I• ·!.1 t· ::. v; t!.· ( t•:)t I'!, h11t J'l ·;n h• ; ::. :. tn.l- 1. ,, \ l ··1·: . I'; Ill' I 1 11[1 :· l!IH' · :-!,·ur.t,,· !l j ,, Jt;l,h ,f,!\ '~ I \ \\ I \ : ' •·· •• 1 1. ·:.: •. r·. .1\ :, F: .. t t:.:•·l] ~·· , .. rt· \'. '! t I I It I • r ., i: 'I'll•· ... I', :.•; I I . ' I' \ • I ':·t '. Jt I lj, '•I :I i '· !! :v. ,, ', J, ! .. !1_ • '. f.' ' J !I: •f ... !l' j\ I'!' . '' .. . , I ·:· '!' \' ;:: ··! 'i \ ·~ 1 • l '·:1' '· '\ I. .,. l•' l-.· 1 1 !. \I f\·,, II• •, · l .,_ •·1\.t i: ,;, .... ..: .. 1. • • ,,. \,.' .I ... :.. 'lp 11,,. :,...:;·.,· , 1 !u !t; '-'·~~. t'' .r• 11 ·~ ···:d, t' i'l't :. !' l ..•. ! • - 1 ,; 1 - : :1 ~ · • ~- '• l.; I • ' 1 t r. ( ~:• t I 1: 1.· !!. , ·.•. ,; I lw l'' .• \ :·t l< ' 1\.:1- }1 '• l\ :11 ll ': : ' \ ( . j~. \ :. I ; j' '. I 1. It ! ,,· }, '.I I\ ,J. I: I ·I I i~:tl •\ :II' I •t• •Ill .\I 1.· ~· •! '·. ! ! I ) • ' :' l 'l ~ ,. \ I f I I I I I~ '; t l '! l• 1 1:, F··r· Iii• ri:· ~ t:ll't-· ~.r: •. 1:'~7 ,\·n ! ' • \~ .. n t' .. t·L.\Ill;.i''•!: ~~.p ,f t~,. . T~:Jt-'1· I t \ ,. ll T 1 .F }:l:L' , 1,•: ., nf th •. ~ th• ,•J-, .,,;!:•::', : ··· , I 1 ·1 • I I , ! , ~- • ·! 1 t , ~ i· I ; • '' • ' ._.j .1. !tl .!' ., i] i ·~ 1•!' I' ! 1 ; I ,,, •; \,! l! I : I \, • 11 I ,_, • I 1, ·I•\ d:n:, 1 :.•.1 !''' ; 11· 1 '\.I ' i · 1', • ·: \ II~· f'' +· \ + \ ' ' ' 11 ··l J, ll- l\ ! ~\. ; ~ t t: I· ! I! I' ',J; ·! :I \ : ; I 1 'I·' I • f 1 1 ' ,t l.' \\ll },,.);; 11•1'1 th·· \'J;b.J.~~····l 1·::· J.l 1•\'.IJ :.-- f~qrn:tt·;nr:.--' 1\ a:1d 1: dl' 1 •• 11: d ,tf l J 1 • t· ~. ' ,. • · I • _ ' ~ :.J-t ' : \.,. l · . n !·· t 1 ~ lt~d I 1'': ·•1 :tt:d ( ',, ,,-J: .J·q I! I i J ~ ! 1 't \ o· t I l I 1l I ' 'f l' 11 J\ ! 1 tJ\ ..... : r ,. , l'•·· • lt l .. h· :··n·l • •. h-., 1.:: Ill- ··I I ·-- , 1 \llf\ Th. \-tl:J··.I I :t~l hll:l. I f If l ' I 1- '' I ll 'f t \i o! t I J .j ~ \ I. I .\t!-i:1J! 1>1 11 } 1\-·' P· Ht.d ('(·•t1'1'1. J 1,. l I \ 'I l I f1 '', I !Jt l ; I ~1ol ( • • ~ l t., .. ffllt•,•l \\-tlil•l' \\t;.) ,-:t]:. -1. r: :i J···l!l f;J'lll-!tl,; \\':•1:1•, J.;ll!t l I ; I I',; ! •· 11, l' '-. ,, ! ! 1 :!J ~~I ll' I· Ill 1'1! · t· · n\1 l·l't.·~-J~· Jt· 1 ··~~.!· d t • J, 1 1 t 1 •'lllj \1•'!1~ t lj!· '-'I ,••nd l I' I)( ··111- Ill~ tllltlll.! 1lir· Pl'!l•'f-fl'l.l L:;tll!f' }·,,_t \'\r' k T'pt·'l )J;-.. '!hJl!t·_\~ !tr d1 h··· \'\' du'Y, -:~t\·· .Jrq d·tu. 1 tl_.,.;\ c], lit ~1d _\t!llli'J.._f·_- ,·h:·rllf\f·~ fot \'if t•lf ,. :\ln1 ;·tn.: :!n.J K.,. :~~~~· tl~,. tv:,. I• ,:P• n i~ ~tiP ll:tl!t;,r·· l'}H-'·1 h\' Jrtt••l l•·t··i:1•r•t1 }!tf--}-q;, \\\'hn h.·l-1{~ fJ;-l,i t')J!· ]f•ll' , ldt•, \\llJ -t:·r t 'It '111'-11 t1··: ~;fn,..; \\Ill bt• }ltbt\'f•l~','-{ fl' 1···:\·..: PJn·~;n~ t~·:tt1· :11 !··-f' 1 !1.-l :-·LI :tn,; Tl:·rli!JJ·I•tl \\ill f'·trt :· ~·IJ:t·d !1tn1u·d hy t;,,·]dt• ... Po11l•J :n1 t1 \J,,r -·· Tl11 \rnl,, ,.._-f t• ·tnl J, fl}<\d 111111·L llt··t·t r· in t·}!,. p, inr·1·tnn ~-;,JJ11 dt· · }';'' tJt,. tnlr·-~-:idl-d Vi(·tnt\' frq· t'lw TL:1t.~ th··n \'\.!lt-n 1t h···,·t H•rb•qt ~'<, 11• 7 'l ~-t 1•l< P:\1 !if·)· Tl•r• h !f']{- l::J\ · lt,r'\'tl lll•1• ,. f't·:·fid··Pr'r-• in 1 1·,ndl· ·:.: tlw h•1l \·hll·· ·}·:· lin•· :.·· -. I 'J.l>!t·\-, d t'lr· lJ,r Jid, ll .'. J- 1 ,: !11 I h1t1-- _~, 1111-'\' \Vf, , .• tn:•d·· ,,~l t'11' li: l' :_ ... •- ]·~!,··:·II~. ~·n·l fer! \\':'1 d..-: !:\n,HFtL\TEH\;nT TRH l\ ;\!El-:T I :\;\II I;\' J \I J I ; t! II-' t~ I·.,,: • 1 dlllllll1~.­ J'f.;:1t r:•··r i' J ~ t. 1'>. t ~I I\ I 1 .\J, - t-·.~· \\' .. · q \\' I l 1 1 1 ' II \ \ \ \ :: .... · '! ::1 I!•_ t lr . ...:. U}l-t··t ,,f t hr· lllt! :• 1. :nn: d :,n·L.-. t't1:t: n:tiiJt nt \\:: 1 { •·!· .: h~- .JII_ t•Jdi ('•dit·'ll :;•;_ \\ b •. :·; \'~1·-.J .J:,, h: ~J .. tf~ rt. ,., ·!·--d ~. I. : r1 t: ;, L_lir .-, t • • It' \' t; I .1, dHt I :.ttl't-·1 I·. :---l··r·dr•t) ~II I, ;t.!t't•J j,, ll: •) : t Jl t·ll I ... t·l. l t:. !1. t t '' ~ - t I It it :tlJI! ·.·\I fl !lit-' lt·II'\IIIll !I;.! 1\.' II .... , L, ~UHi l:J·,t, :t 'J~;l;J~-1 ~llllilHt·l ~'-1\':-, ~;-~· I; 1 I!' t t' ,,, '' t J ~~-· l t I j 'Itt. t: 1- ~. Jt !;1.) f '(' -ILl'• T~:··-d;!\' ~tr· fr,·! dii\\Il• .i I···· t t; ~~. '· 1 ~tnd ~~·!:!lltl d,-f,·:d\: :! 1 ),\\. 1 I 1 :'. ,; 1. !HO~TJ·:H OF FltE:-:.H.\1.\.'\ FOOTH.\LL TE.nl I \ 1: \I \I I. .1· I' :· i. I'· \\• ':T T 1\ l··· I:H I•·\ 1·'1: ... ' I:T :- .. 1.1 : 1•.' 1-'1: !l' VI: 1-·\ 1: I_-, I·' ; I~' I .\I ! :1; 1 7'1 1: .T· LT ·,.• ':' \' I' I ·, ,. ·,,,, ·I :- .. , \I h ... L!l 1.1: !:1: ld 1'.•• \\ 1.. ' ' I. ). I. \· \]I' H., 1: I:H 1.•: l.t; 1:1: I·' I: I:T 'I' 1.11 1•.' :II ,, . I ' ], . •· J ,;, ! ,., - It, I· \' .. '>\ \! ! ' !I . II .\·1 I \I +'.1 \'. 1.· .. I• \ I 'I:;. \ l. \1 \I I II 'I'·. II \1 H ., . 1:· ~ '\' \\ . ., ! I - ; , I' 1:•. j l ..... \I !: II i' • II , , ' ' I . II .\l · I 1: II 11: .. \• II I' I ., . II ... ', II II 1: '- II ~ ' .. , II ;-: 1: I. , -· :--- I', II :\ :--: ll :--: \ \ 1 I \ ·I ,, '·I. ,'1 >I I . I' 1: E :\'THY Ja .. \ \\1\-J \'TEI~ Fl~ .\ TEIC\'ITY TH.\CI\ :\IEET :;.\:>.:1·: tW F1:.\TI-:I:;\;1TY '.I I• '· 3 l!rc:lt .I \'''i' Ill:-• 11 .J:n \I in _j~-. ~-· ~ ~ . -- -·'- ; [[):~1·lfr(C~fni1 -~w;[)17 I'· TliP fall ~~•·tfr~f,.,lnif\· t\t:t<l' I' llH't t will h\ 1 lf··ld on f).-f,,IH'I 1\> :,nd 1:1. lw~lnllltl:' :1! 4 311 p. Ill !':!<'It dlJ\' ,\11 ~t·ll,]r·ntc nt·,. c•li'clhiP t • (11Jl1ft(·fl• ['(('l·'fJl }J1i·ll1ht;·J:.; (If th• fo111·h·dl :1nd \.·!u. ~t\· r·:'~.~---' l'oUll11 \' :-'1J!IH1- Ei!.di rn111P~1:nlt m:n· r~,n~­ TH·-11' in tltr n1011' 1111n th11·r> r:·v••nt\ Fi\'1· t·'- . .--, \\~]Jl ht·· :i\\':11 dt·tl with BANQUETS CLUB DINNERS WEDDING PARTIES tit t n1t1:11 :~lt! ;) p(lint-: __ ,,,·on~: 1. t'dt.l :::. f••ll> ~h :.'. Clllll fifth 1. EJ.,,. Wh 1 : •• OJ' 1 hi~ Jt;l 'P j' :1.11 Pntl r hl:tllk \\ hi• h rtltl·l ]lt' ,,;1J})J)Jlt't!-'d 111 ('n;wh \\'ilfot•l H. l~eb: by ()f'!.,br 1 16. DAVE MEYERHOFF AND HIS FAMOUS ORCHESTRA Every Saturday Night-9 P. M. to I A. M. No cover charge Complete Restaurant Service On Saratoga Road at Ballston Tel. Ballston 200 Frosh Open Season I At HomeTornurrow '1;.\''~ ............... ~ r ,·£~ ~·~· . ,~ Fiji .. Ht':tch 1-'unl nmmd ol !-'ra1l'111!(\ !':w! hill Tourm·~ I 1 .. i·. . ' :;· t··i ; j> l ~ ' ,, !. .\liddl(•Lury FH'-.hm:1n Ell'\ ~·n' · to Fu T'ni,:h Oppo~i lion for i ( 'o:H:h :\ilrhman',.. \\ailing._ .\I r. ' i :; ! I t' \\ t't- )\ ' I• ' ~ ' I I· ! ~· - t . : , I, ~ l ll 'f I I. I• .t- _,,., 1·· <·. '· ~I ,' : .· 1.•:: · t•;rl.,, !tl/•,111\\ il!l .\,~,:,;•, ' I •! ~ I' f I I; tlll-t,_ I h-.\. ! ' •i . :ill ; t' ' ' ; . . '.'- ' l< 'I·.· 1!~1.1:1 t_~t·d ',\;(~·: :•:•· \'.I 1~! !d• !J I: I I! ! I •I·' t ''lit-; ,t'l I 1\\ I' . ·''·- !t. •·!,i•··:l• '·' I·:. • lll-1- \! ;r \\I, t t~~.J~l! ·; E .. _ .•. !11~ •· ··-·i!~~ L:.;th: k \\·~ r .• - .•.• ~ ,., • '. , I ~ I l I t 1 ' I I , , t• J I I I ; , l • ! , t• l I : I , ! I ! ·,,,_,I. :\',1< :.:Jl: !J p; I_\• d I !I !: I·· tll•l f.tt\-\· t:. t\ 1 1· fJ, •: .:: \1-! ( 1\J l1'l:, ' ; : I i I ! t1', - '•I),- I ', I !. I ttl;• '• •lit !t.!· >\', ll :1.1\•! It: .f .. !l.' •· '. t: . ~;! .t\. !I J•, ~~ • \'. 1_\ f t •I ; l:; I · \':t·,:, I' II!, I ,f 1:2 1 1 I ,- ... 'I ! \\I •. !: J•t\ !'o! !J·• ·I 1 ! , ' I ! ' ; t· ' ~ I j I j • , !1.~ t ! , ' .. \ , .. ; ! 1 t. ·· l':• t ~:1·:: L: 1 :·n. ·- 'i ' i. '=· '; ., . ''· ';I . i .·· I' f ' ' ~ •• l ' ,. :q . . ' ! i \ /.' . ·. '; .. 1\. 'i' i' ' ~~ · 1 l' !, ,,_,I j • ' : : I. ~ ' ' i . • ' ' ,. . .. ' ~ • . I . ' I • ' , ... ' ,, ' 1 ; . ' • i ' • ~ • t ••••••• T·, •.· I· 1•·t·t t ,o ' \ I• ., ,. f'll'l i\ ··' • • • 1 _ · l J • , • ~ , I , · . • ,. ·,I ·- , •, t, ... -. :•_ •,1·;+-:!' ! • ·!!1'.'1· r-: .. · ... , ,. .tf.·! :·J'• ·r 1 \\ \ t-•' l!. ill' ' .. ,. I·· :_\t ., L t'' f I • ' (-' ~ I f: . , n -.,. •! • \t-• ; '•·t't l.t , ; ' • ;-.! ~ j ' , I ' : '' : I I I, j-l t, Harriers \\'iH l\leet \\'iHhuns at Ho1ne Pw ph· Oul!it lh'l'e TomntTOI\ With \';·!f'J.tn 'h·am to \\ l'll~l· 'I'·· •: \ ', ': ,. I v. '. ~I' I• ., ' .: '• '•''. .'.-' '· : r:,: • • 1 I I ' f ! ! I I• • I I ! t j ~ I t!J. !. t l1•·• !1 ... ·\ !;, \·' , .. , ',\ ,,, J.l!' dl'tt• .· I -!..r•l, !J.· \\ . ! ! ' 1....:. .,/.lll '. -] l, : .• ! 'I I.. \\ .·t.:>. :1· • ll•• · I. I ·.I !I ll]l tf:, I' ''\ .... , ,, ... \i•j· ;,. v •. t' ! I'' !•'' 'I,,,, 1-, 1. !·· .. ,.. II :, .. , '\· J; ... 'II> I. I~ I,' J: . ~ / . , .~ ·r. . . : .. - ... : I 0 ; ,I·, :: _.-, : 1l ::, ;) ···.·:. r,. \\ . ,, 1':. lll:·t.JJ (' \:'·· ·,. .; f · •- l't:: j•!r tfll:l•i ;, ... ·: I•·. [- ! , I ~ I , 111 '', t·' j 1 o ,,. •{'I•J, I I •ol:! --t·' llll<l I h•·' I I I ' . : ~ . ~ : ! • l t ~ .. i.I!•· f{, h .. ~ t hll Pia,\ qJ '1nlta\\ k Ua;. . ''· I ... \' ' 'I' ;; · i ~ • ·J d : .. r 1 1 ,, 1 · fll~ l\·illl !Jlt'lllhl , ... 111 l:t>t 'J't.t ,., lr!;tl !till! ·t·l:I!,I!. ~._.lr.r~· ).1.•:·,\\l.;: p,._ ~- tn. t•' \'.r···]: :t~:·: •r',q ,,,. •r,, tu },,,t•: t,,,,,. F. ::~'''t :::.•1 I·,· '!1r! I.• T.,!t•·· , .. :.·. \', I I • . j 'i it 1 . J :'' i Ill.- ,, ' f } l • • :I : • ·~ ' · ...... ,1\ \\Ld·· II·,-J.\. i: :111d ~~ ,~ :-v111: : • '\ . ,, I I k . ~I •• l Ill I ~ I•. :' f t ll ·l ; I i. ' f t i 'I. I 'I 1-'I•I )I.: - :'\1 t I :\J :I ~ I l•Jtl\!d h111t-1!f ., 'IH·I:\' !tl'-lh: },: ·;:::1 :. :•:c r!::··'t.:!; lh·· :.1 .; ·' ·,. Jtrl ::•! \'.'lid !·t: :1 f.,ll,· 1 ··1••\'.'~ Th· ,,· .. b.tl,:.. -t ;Jttn.· :l! · 11:• •.,· :;;I·' ~I ·,;.l :. flli i \' -- U!JI \\ l ;: }1. • '• ! I Itt\;. tt•d ~:l!':ll!J:.Jl <tl' .\J. I~ ·J t:wld, (;!f,-i,:l ·t·:d (',nq,J,, .\l·.~JI: -'l.i:J·,_:-. I' Itt- :tll·i F L ·-nt1·:. l:t!l'•'l. \\:th II·t.~h . I f1•1. }:,. \\n :tnd E, 1 _~: b •.. i' liJ 1~ JJ:.c : !: h•, k:• d J' '• .J, I·~ 11 _ :. r ,_ 1 : , , t ~,.: 1 \ ::, , t t11 . ''·.. • 1 • j I b •- • -, u-- •·• ', t 1 !l_i': 1 : ,_ - c l t ! 1 .. - r r 1;, ~ 1 \' ~ ·,,;I· l!k···l t•+ -I I '.',• I' ,'JJ f• I '.I!' .: ·q1d Ft·!~t·•tl :~t:.~··:- L.t T 111~- 1, r f, .. ,: '>lld ll:r~k··'l :tt.<1 ~h··~,llUI •:· h:wlt- Tl,, . ...: ddt , •. ,:; ~t .: I ·:t ~ f•t! i' !:: .~-~~i.. •t;,. f•li!•l\\dl.,.: ltll :~ qfftll:.t·•:_ ; :: t t ,.!'. :-'\ 1.:1 ·u . 1 ,.f,. , •. \\ .• , )..! , <,,~;t 11 !'-\1 I~· •.. lii!!JH: •· :\l:Jit·J, (',.; !•t·~J. h· :td :11:• Ill !II BI:IH; .\T Y.\LE :-111•' 1 ·~ I~~ .____: y I:,. c I 'l, •, h1- • :.:·· ·r 1 ·· . :1hJ1 ,!· I· ... f Ill • • \'. , , ' ~'''. ' f J • < \ ,\. I,_;!-' - ( ,., ):! DE\VITT'S LUNCH Opposite New City Hall 118 Jay Street \ \' ,, ! ••• :: ,\'' . .Ill I' ( ' I~ ., THE ACME HOUSE LINEN SUPPLY CO., Inc. Hf'nt!\ Linf•n for all Oua,ions rYou pty fo•· L:o.undty \\',r·lt orn1y) 1030 BARRET ST. Phone 4-9310 S \Tl'HB.\Y mul ~{ :\~;!).\\ EXCURSION TO NEW \YORK GTY .\ l 11· t', • !'1:: r: ; , .. 1!: · i !: ..: • r .t· f:, :: ; I ~ • 1 , I ' \ I ' J•' • • ~-~1 I l•' I!:· 1! l I 11 ·'• T I 1'. 'I ... , .li '. ' •·' f I ! ~ . - ' ' , \. l · ' ' j , ! 1· I ! . , I ! I ' 1 !: , I l r llf 1-: •r I:-, I .f; f' ','f :'\: t'\\ 1' li :1 !_i I -- t ! I l ~I , J-~:l :I :t:tlfjt- ;:--~=~:Ill !•tlit!d 1:.p !'-!t•l Hit' ~·Ill! !t•~t'J\'dJ.tf;- f.-1\\ ..\. I:. and 1-:. L \\'\HE I'H0:\1:-: ~-~;x:w-H HENRY'S BARBER SHOP GA.RBERING and MANICURI~·JG 4 N. Y. C. Arcade THE CAZETTE PRESS I,' I l' .. j I, 1: 'I ~•;If·], {'·q•':;.:ll (;. t;·fl dfuHl\, j'~•l\~:.l(>f', ).IJ\'I· .. •h, :tJ~·,! il. t tf Ill :t -.! • ln...: ..... ' -tq•Jt!t·!\llt'tJtt--d It:~· 4 \\ II ; 1 ; · · • · , 1 • \ rrl 1 ! , l i ' ' _. ' , t v :1 r~ d I!\~ ',•,' ( ) 1 ' 1 \\1 ... ,,~jl>lf}()'Jt•~ Jl),r·ill•!• 1 1 ·.: 1 1 : -• ·: I : 1 : 1 ; r t . I '1 ·l) t .,. - ~ • r . I• ·J,··t 1i lt ..... t r:. ,:\.l('('ttllnt-: .. :tnd ...;!, : •• ST. REGIS PHARMACY <'1:·.::··· 1: c.,,,.~- Prop. 600 Union Street f'il<l;\;l: 1·11:!3 UNION'S OLD STANDBY Our Work and Prices Are Competitive GARNET TAILOR 305 Liberty St. Tel. 4-0 122 Enjoy '{ours{'lf at RICHARDS Among lntimatP Surr •• unding:-~ BILLIARDS and BOWUNG )OG State Street PRINTERS ! Rosendale Florist I ---·--------~~--~~~-' Jay St., at Franklin ------·-·--------, UCHE BRASS P UGH'S AIL Steamed Clams, Hot Butter, 25c A Whole Cold Boiled Lobster, 50c A PLACE TO tv1 EET A PLACE TO EAT The Horne of the Hoi· Roast Beef Sandwich The Drinks You Have at the 19th Hole on the Links 8 STATE STREET PHONE 2-6135 ~------------------------------------------------

Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1933 Bishop of Chicago Will Speak :St.nday Dr. Mosely Prefers the Small readers may receive both pleasurestrain in which a part of the Flor- and improvement.\ · iad's articles were written: College, Discussion Method.. It is notable that this paper of a Oh! strange, indeed a place century and more ago was not so fair without its columnist. In almost A city venerable and where (Continued from Page 1) · every other issue the \Rambler\ The muses have resided studied history in Europe; spend-· wrote a column in a rather humor\ long, Bishop Stewart Is Prominent Author; Special Preacher at Princeton aud Wisconsin ing one year a.t EmrnanueJ CoUege ous style on his observations dur- Has never found a place in in Cambridge and another at the ing 'the past two weeks. At one song: Ecole Libre des Sciences Politiques tiine he commented on current per·i- And where fl:!H many a bard in Paris. Returning to The Un·ited. odicals, in one of which he was sur- has sung, States in 1929 he received his mas- prised to find, in an article profes- And praises with their num- ters degree at Harvard and held a:n sed to haye been written by a bers rung, G c · instructorship in Russian history \Scribbler a labored dissertation Hail! long neglected city, The Rt. Rev. Mr. eorge :alg at Princeton. From the summer of on the Hebrew, Syriac and Chinese haiH Stewart, Bishop of Chicago smce 1930 to the spring of 1932 Br. languages. Schenectady! thou shalt not 1930, will deliver the sermo.n .at the Mosely did research work on the A poem entitled \Schenectady\ fail C hapel ::;ervices Sundav mormng, at h th h t t t Of 11 · \ J subJ'ect of the Diplomatic History, s ows e . .so mew a ex ravagan one we -rueanmg song. 11:00 o'clock. 838 Dr. Stewart was graduated from of Russia, between the years 1 the Evanston Academy in 1898, the to 1843, in the Russian Ar.chives · · Western Theological Seminary of. and libraries at Moscow. Return-! d t - k t jug again to America he was • Chicago in 1903, an ° 0 pos \ awarded his doctor:s degree at Har- • graduate work at Northwebt~rn ,.. 33 T .. T • th t · 1 University in 190:3,04, from wh 1 ch vard in 'b . osmg e rna eJna he veceived the .bachelor of arts d~- obtained in Russia he is writing a: gree in 1902 and the Doctor of D1- book on the Russian Policy regard- • vinity degree in 1917. He wa::; also ing the Straits of Constantinople' ·awarded the degree of Doctor of under Nicholas I, whose reign Hu mane Letters from Kenyon Col- marks the height of Russia's power. and to whom the control of the lege in 1915. t · f c t t' 1 Dr Stewart was ordained to the S ra1ts o ons a.n mop ·e was very Methodist Episcopal ministry in important. 1900, pastor of the Calumet Height,; ---o Church in Chicago :from 1897 to \Floriad: Published in 1811, 1900 and of St. Stephen's Church in Chicago from 1900 to 1902, dea- Was First Publication Here con and priest of the Protestant Episcopal Church in 1903, and rec- tor of Glencoe from 1903 to 1904. During his twenty-five years at :;;t. Luke's Church, Evanston, begm- ning in 1904, property increased from $10,000 to $1,000,000 and mem- bership from 220 to 1824, The Rev. Mr. Stewart is a special preacher at Princeton, Chica-g?, Iowa, Wisconsin and Michigan Um- versities and trustel' of Northwest- ern University and the Western Theological Seminary o.f Chicag?, at which he also lectures on Homi- letics. Author of Many Books Dr. Stewart is assodnte Pditor of the Anglican Theological Review and is the author of Why Baptize Babies? 1911; The Colors of thf' Re- public, 1915; Evolution a Witn:ss to God, 1921; What is My L1fe Work? 1925; Spanish Summer, 1928; Six Altars, 1929. ---a--- REPEATED COURSE FEES All .payments from students tak- ing repeated courses must be paid at the Bursar's office on or before Tuesday, October 17th. The bill will be $15 each, for the first semes- ter. Notices have been sent to all student!; ·taking repeated coutses. CONCORDIENSIS NOTICE II There will be a short but very ~~ important meeting of all mem- i bers of the freshman and sopho- I, more reporters of The Concor- . 1 diensis at 7:30 this evening- in 'I the Publications Office. All those I, who do not attend will auto-~! I matically be dropped from the ; staff. I' 1 35c LUNCH (Continued from Page 1) species· of literary intelligence which may be deemed interesting. \-While we are presenting our 1 eaders with the blossoms of litera- ture, which a1·e ali we can promise us our own, we shall not hesitate to select from others its mature and delicious fruits·. \-Though in undertaking this. work the editors acknowledge that they are in part actuated by a de- sire for the improvement of them-; selves and their fellow student in polite literature, especially in ele- 1-\ant composition: yet they are not without hopes that from it their Bellinger Paint Co. ARTHUR TRIGG, Prop. Paints, Oils, Varnishes, Glass Brushes and Wall Paper 126 BROADWAY The Acme Barber WELCOMES College Students 509 Union St. 11:30 A. M.-2 P. M. DAILY 50c DINNER 2 P. M.-8 P. M. SUNDAY 5:30 P. M.-8 P. M. DAILY SA~DWICH .. fNN 631 STATE ST. Schenectadi's Popular Rendezvous MEN! MEN! HERE IS VALUE! II I i I I ! ' i ' S296~:h~:a~:rS396~~-~~;S446 11 Bostoman Florsheim And Other Popular Makes BANKRUPT AND SURPLUS STOCK A FEW SELECTED STYLES AT $4.96 MANUFACTURER'S SHOE OUTLET I I ,I Problem of College Income' on the instructional side of the col- lege parti'cularly the curriculum Shrinkage Met by Trustees. and' the men teachirug the courses, is likely to result in further savings (Continued from Page 1) made possible by grouping related counses into general divisions burdens of the faculty who require rather than the departmental plan. ·stenographic work done for classes. \In addition to the simplification Dr. EJ.lery concluded his state- of this administrtive machinery, ment with the conviction that \in- union College is further ·.pffsetting stead of proving an unmittigated the shrinkage in income from its hardship, the Depression has been end0wment funds by savings in the ·responsible for a ·business-like or- cost of suppl1e!; and labor •by group ganization ·o·f the administration of buying and by letting contracts for· Union College and as a consequence w0rk to be done, rather than on a the faculty has not :had to suffer cost-plus basis', as was the custom alone the bur~en <;~f J.os~ of income, in the past.\ as \;'as t.he s1tuat10n 1~, the eco- The survey now being completed nom1c cr1ses of the past. ell me something.. what makes • a ctgarette taste bette_r W HAT makes anything taste better? It's what is in it that makes a thing taste better. CHESTERFIELDS taste better be- cause we buy ripe tobaccos. These ripe tobaccos are aged two and a half years-thirty months. During this time the tobaccos improve- just like wine improves by ageing. CHESTERFIELDS taste better be- cause they have the right kind of home-grown tobaccos and Tw:kish Tobaccos \welded togethe.r.\ We hope this answers your question. the cigarette that's MILDER @ 19~5, LIGG!iti & MYERS TOBACCO Co, the cigarette that TASTES BETTER f I .,. i' II ,, f I r, 1/ t 'i v R Ri fe1 rec esi sp1 ac· fet no be' spc eX] Pr ed ch: ha In I im IDE erE an· of tor IDE th! as ble frc '34 die thE wa ad• ter hoc H I er im sta oui WO bru nee be-, rna ob1 I ist ed anc the poi the ba! stu I the poi by is ' J voc mo voi Hi 01 '] bel noc fro wa ne:; tur cit~ anc bat J up! Trc Sol dar abc :r- out lag Mo Fe1 loV\ che l: ne~ wil Sot n: '] De: cel' 20 buf da~ by ing l: rna pee

r\ ,. '.· .. i f I ! .,. ' ll ~~ ·, r, 1/ t ., ~.- : :: l I ! \ t \ ~it' . n t ' ' ................... , ....... ~ ..... ~ Conco·rdiensis Publishes Letter Smuggled from Germa:ny Which, Explains N~zi Rule Forty :Men, Including Fresh- men Tumed Out Last Night for Initial Hockey Call Vol. LVII UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1933 No.8 ====~=====~~-~-=====~====~~~~~====~~~-~==~·=========~~============================== FencingFavoredAs nany Ass_cm_b_Iy sveakei'S A Non..,Semitic German Professor; •·no'I'OGRAPHERs wANTED N M e s t • Tomorrow-Dr. Ernest M. Ligon : •. ew Inor. por Ill \The Principle of the Thing\ Tells ofSuffering Caused byNaziRule . Thursday-Thomas J. Crowley, So.phomores who have had some experience in using a Gra- ftex action camera, or students interested in taking acti(,)n pic- tures are being sought by the Union College News Bureau for rts pictorial staff. Students selec- ted will be supplied with a cam- era and film when on duty. It is possi·ble to earn some money in this wod•, as well as develop an interesting avocation which will also be a benefit to the college. Those interested should report to the News Bureau in Silliman Forty-one Horkey . Players Turn Ont For the Initial Call St d t B d . v t Jr., \Deb!liting;\ . · U en 0 y 0 e :Et'riday-Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh Richard Diamond, '35, Makes Motion, Cites Many Points in Favor of His Proposal MUCH COMMENT MADE Cory Advises Postponement; Hinman Suggests Commit- tee to Investigate Matter Acting on a motion introduced by Richard Diamond, '35, manager of fencing, the student body went on record yesterday as favoring the establishment of fencing as a minor sport. Outlining his reasons for the action Diamond stated that making fencing a minor sport would entail no additional expense to the college because the men interested in the sport are willing to pay their own expenses on trips to other colleges. Pressing his point further, he add- ed that no equipment need be pur- chased since the college already has all the necessary equipment. Interest in fencing, he said, as is indicated by the fact that 25 fresh- men have gone out for it has in- creased among the student body and warrants the action. Considerable Discussion The motion, coming on the heels of an exhortation by Edward Hut- ton, '34, captain of hockey, to all men interested in hockey to make that interest evident by attending as many practice sessions as possi- ble, aroused considerable discussion from the floor. George R. Cory, Jr., '34, editor-in-chief of The Concor- diensis, objected to the motion on the ground that such action is un- warranted at the present time and advocated that action on the mat- ter be postponed until the status of hockey is first settled. Hausser Aslts Immediate Action Herber Hausser, '34, student lead- er of the Musical Clubs, asked for immediate action on the motion, stating that such a move will bring out all the problems involved and would furnish the student body a basis for taking further action if necessary. He added that this has be~n the customary procedure in matters of this sort and should be observed in this case. Rankine G. Hinman, '35, column- ist for The Concordiensis, suggest- ed that the motion be tabled for another week at least and that in the meantime a committee be ap- pointed to investigate the matter thoroughly, thereby furnishing a basis for intelligent action by the student body. Irving Kusbman, '34, reiterating the reasons given by Diamond, pointed out that favorable action by the student body on the motion is wan·anted at the present time. A vote on the motion taken viva voce was strongly in favor of the motion with only a few dissenting voices beard. Saturday-Mr. C. M. Ripley, of the General Electric Company Tuesday--Alvin Nitchman, \The Alumnus and the College\ 'War in 1940' Cites Bishop of Chicago Chapel Speal~er Predicts Nine Years' Strife; Another Says War Will Commence in 1936 The Right Reverend Mr. George Craig Stewart, Bishop of Chicago, opened his sermon in Sunday Chapel by saying that a certain text which he used for his topic, was written during a crisis similar to the one we are now passing through. His text came from the seventeenth verse, second chapter of the first Epistle of Peter. \Honor all men. Love the Brotherhood. Fear God, Honor the King,\ was his topic. First Example from Wells His first example was taken from Wells, \Things that are to Come.\ ·'Wells,\ he said, \predicts a war in 1940 which will last for nine years. The period from 1950 to 1960 will be one of turmoil and strife. Then along comes another man tha:t says the war will come in 1936. Perhaps this is so but it is a significant thing that Mr. Wells left 22 years since the end of the last great war for the new generation to grow up. Not only is there a crisis in world politics but also in literature, fi- nance, economics, and most every conceivable thing.\ At the time of the Epistle from which his subject was chosen there was a crisis very similar to the present one, be continued. The verse of the Scripture that he read was Peter's advice to the people of that time. Wave of Internati<malism He said that during the period immediately following the last war a great wave of internationalism spread throughout the world. By this time, that spirit ha:s turned into a feeling for greater national- ism. \We are beginning to say that America is for Americans. Ger- many says Germany for the Ger- mans and so on. Germany ha:s even gone so far as to have withdrawn from the League of Nations, which America never joined. The Na- tional Recovery Act merely says that America is looking out for her- self.\ He then stated that some of the causes of this feeling were the Treaty of Versailles and a general fear of Communism. \But be con- tinued, \through all this Christian- ity has not lost her standard one single inch. Jesus is the redeemer, lover, and brother of the world. Christianity has stood through many other crises like this one and bas stood them all firmly. It will stand others to come.\ EDITOWS NOTE: The following· letter was writ;ten by a professor. who is still on the faculty of one of the German universities. It was smuggled out of Germany through two other :European courttries be- fore reaching a member of the fac- ulty, who vouches for its authen- ticity. The write1· is not a Jew, a fact which makes his views all the more significant. Half the Faculty Dismissed \On account of the laws against the Jews practically half our fac- ulty bas been dh;missed and I have had to take over some extra large classes. I havP. had no difficulties with the students who are very friendly and decent, but apart from that the work has been ter- ribly depressing. Most of my friends were aftected in one way or another. A surpriding number of them turned out to be at least pat tly ,Jewish, and others were thought \unreliable\ on account of previous political activities. The amount of ~uffedng I have ~een everywhe-re is simply sickening, for of coursE' people have no re- serves at all, and for most of them it is actually a question of starv- ing when they are thrown out of a job. So you can easily imagme the amount of pressure that everybody feels, and it becomes much more understandable why there is so lit- tle open and courageous protest against the Na-zi measures. People are deathly afraid, and they have to be afraid. There is no doubt about it that the whole movement is very closely connected with un- employment, particularly unemploy- ment of the lower middle and pro- fessional classes, and that the laws against the Jews have to be inter- preted largely as a most handy means to create employment for professional people by taking jobs away from the Jews. N othi.ng Discl'.editable Well, I fePI that this in itself is nothing really discreditable. If somebody is out of a job I can un- derstand that he gets into such a desperate mood that he is no longer concerned about the other fellow's feelings if he can only throw him out of his job and put himself in his place. It is a very sad and bard piece of economic struggle, but it becomes objectionable only if such brutal acts are labelled fine deeds of patriotism, and that is what happens at present in Ger- many on a disconcertingly large scale. Even now, after they have been in absolute power for five months, I am unable to see any constructive ideas in the deeds of the government. If you look at the laws they pass, at the projects they discuss, you will see that they are either concerned with the per- secuting of communists or Jews, or with vague racial ideals that may or may not be of value. There is a lot of triumphing about getting unemployment down, although when you look at the \successes they are limited to rural districts now engaged in the harvest; but not one idea about what to do to r.omedy unemployment in the win- ter and on a large scale. Now you might say I am asking oul whether they are base or not. So I cannot help thinking that it too much of the Nazis since appar- ently no other government, includ- ing Roosevelt's, is able to do much. 1 kno·w quite well what a de~peratG problem it is, and I do not blame them at all for being unable to solve it. What I do blame them for Is that they wriggle out of the responsibility and the seriousne~s of the whole situation by making the people dt'Wlk with words anu promises and by side-tracking their mmds onto sue h issues as the Jew- . Hall tomorrow afternoon at 1:30 o'clock. \Freshman C'lass Haven't Had Hockey Put Up to Them,\ Says H. L. Achille~, Coach COOPER<\ TION SHOWN tsh question. One feels in Ger- • ---------------- Twenty-eight Men Able to Play Daily; Strong Interest for Revival of Sport Shown many at present that the people, almost despairing on account ot the economic s-ituation, are being fed with illusions and the most mghly sounding principles which ar·e void of any meaning, and that with having only heavtly-censored newspapers to read, they have no longer any possibility of judging their government. llilore and more they are coming to live in a world of Illusion, which unfortunately will be vety short-lived. It is simply heart-breaking to see this, a:nd per- sonally 1 cannot see any idea, any plan, any vision on the side of the government which would make me swallow the muck they are feeding to the trusting people. Sole Hope of Getting Thru Winter For instance, at present every- body will tell you that the only nope of getting somehow or other thr·ough the winter without open revolts of despair and hunger is the fact that as Economic Minister we have Mr. Schr.r.itt. This Mr. Schmitt is an extremely able business man who was very successful as the leader of our biggest insurance company, and I myself have the highest respect for his knowledge of economics. However, if you look at the program of the Nazis and the ideals which they teach to their followers, you will see that they ought to regard Mr. Schmitt as one of their worst enemies. Having him as their economic leader (ap- parently he succeeded in convinc- ing them that they mustn't experi- ment with the economic system at this dangerous time) they are prac- tically doing and even strengthen- ing all those elements of \capital- istic\ business life which at the same time they denounce to their followers as horrible and wicked features of the \old system.\ \Shame of Versailles\ Abolislled Or take foreign policy, they tell their followers that by their corn- ing into power everything has been changed, that the \shame of Ver- sailles\ has been abolished; al- though actually there is no change whatever, but Germnay's position in foreign relations is considerably worse. This system of abolishing unpleasant truths and wrapping peo!Jle in all k'nds of vague illu- sions seems to me not only ex- tremely dangerous, but it goes against the grain with me·. I think a nation just as much as a single person has to have some standards of judgment, some possibility of looking at his own deeds to find is terribly bad to be taught that one is living in the most sublime (Continued on Page 4) Publications Board Gives Library $200 Money to Be Used to Pm·chase Books Suitable for Review In Idol, Brewster Announces The No•t Memorial Library will receiv~ $200 from the Student Pub- licationd Board during the current year to purchase books especially suitable for review in the Idol magazine and of use to the Depart- ment of English, Mr. James Brew- ster, librarian, announced today. While the regular book appro- priation for the library is larger this year than last year, it will be spent largely for the books re- quired for reference purposes in the various instructional departments. The Publication.il board gift, there- fore, will be especially appreciated by the students because the funds will be used to provide recreational reading. Last year the Student Publica- tions Board gave the libra·ry $300 for the same purpose and 139 books were bought with the money. In notifying Mr. Brewster of the gift, Dean Charles F. F. Garis, prl?sident of the Student Publica- tions Board said that the money would be turned over to the library in eight installments of $25 each. Forty-one candidates appeared at the Hockey meeting Monday night. Captain Bay Hutton opened the session with a review of the rea- sons for the continuation of the spo1t. He then turned the meeting over to Mr. Achilles who showed how Hockey appealed to sub-fresh- men and how it would attract a fine type of student to Union. Twenty-Pight Daily Following the registration, which showed that there were nine fresh- men candidates and that .there were twenty-eight men who would appear daily, George Cory in be- half of the Athletic Boa·rd lauded the men for thll cooperation they showed through their attendance at the meeting. Strong Frosh 1\!:'am NeedPd In closing Mr. Achilles said that the Freshman class had not had Hockey put before them, and that it was his hope that the class of 1937 would respond readily with a strong team to scrimmage with the varsity. Mr. Achilles expressed the hope that the Frosn will defeat the Varsity, and thus give Hockey a substantial place in Union's sports calendar. Captain-elect Hutton, Austy Fox, and \Willie Jenkins stars of last year's team and Phil Little and Charley Kennedy, frosh stars were among those pre&ent. Inexperienced Union Crew 13th at Saratoga Regatta Placed in 1875 By VEDDER M. GILBERT Back in 1879 the Union College crew shot their shell along the waters of the Mohawk River and Saratoga Lake. The crew had its beginnings in the Mohawk Boat Club which was formed in '79 with Eliphalet Nott Potter as its secretary. After a time the club lost its connections with the college and became a town organization. In 1863 Kappa Alpha formed a club which vied with the ~pha Delt's and Sigma Phi for first place in intramural competitions. The real desire for a crew sprang up in 1874 when Columbia in her first attempt at the Intercollegiate Regatta was victorious. If Colum- bia could foster a crew why should not Union? In the Fall of '75, after the R.A. A.C. accepted Union by an eight to three vote, Mr. Rudd, '73, Captain of the Albany Olympics, began. to whip a crew into shape in order that Union might enter the 1·egatta which was .to be held at Saratoga that summer. Hil\ers Trace Two B1·ooks On Second Sunday Outing The Union College Outing Club held its second hike Sunday after- noon. Following the College brook from Jackson's garden, the hikers walked to the source of the stream near a large conduit. They then turned into Nott Street, left the city at the Mohawk Golf Course, and tramped cross country to the banks of the Lisba Kill. Committee Submits Report on Proposal to Conduct Hocl\ey at MariaviUe Rudd, a non-professional coach, found it a difficult tasl' to talm a grc>up of green men, poorly e\quip- ped with a barge-like shell and have them ready in ten weeks. He ordered a strict diet, so severe that the boys began to suffer from boils, and long daily workouts in the gym or on the river. After a short rest, they turned upstream and followed the creek :to Troy road. The last few miles into Schenectady were completed after dark. Altogether the hikers walked about nine miles. Next Sunday the club will walk out Van Vranken Avenue to the vil- lage of Aqueduct and follow the Mohawk River as far as Vischers Ferry where for several miles be- low Aqueduct, the river has cut its channel through thick rock stratas. Anyone interested in making the next hike will be welcome. The club will meet in room 9, Middle Section, South College, at 2:15 Sunday. ----o•---- DELTA PI NU ANNIVERSARY The tenth anniversary of the Delta Pi Nu Fraternity will be celebrated this week end, October 20 to 23. A social gathering and buffet luncheon is planned for Fri- day evening, followed on Saturday by an alumni meeting in the morn- ing a:nd by a banquet at night All of the charter members and many others of the alumni are ex- pected to be present. Following is the complete re- port submitted to Professor J. Harold Wittner, Director of Ath- letics, by the Committee on Hockey of the Athletic Board. The rE>.port, made by George Cory, Charles Bennett, and Robert Brearton, will be acted on at a special meeting of the Athletic Board, called for October 25, at which time any further proposi- tions to conduct the sport will be considered. After careful investigation on the part of the committee the fol- lowing facts have been deter- mined; 1. Mr. Peake of Mariaville has graciously offered to store the players' equipment, nets, a:nd other articles after practices at Maria- ville; also Mr. Peake will store or arrange for the storage of the sideboards at no cost to the col- lege, unless stored in some other place than his store. 2. Mr. T. C. Swart of Mariaville will clean off the ice on the pro- posed rink at a cost of seventy- five cents an hour with a team. The total expense for this work will depend upon the snowfall during the hockey season which is estimated to last from December 10, 1933 until the third week in February 1934. 3. Dean Garis has given his ap- proval of afternoon pra:ctice and also of games starting either at 1 or 2:00 p. m. with the recom-, players have signified their will- teams would have to dress in mendation that home games be ingn~ss to do this. The chairman Schenectady, return to the col- held on Saturday afternoon. has collected the scheduels of the lege for showers, and there would 4. The department of athletics students interested in hockey, and bo no adequate shelter for them and the manager of hockey have the results ind:cate that a rna- during the game. No admission signified their willingness to re- jority of the students have after- charges could be levied to hP.lp arrange the hockey schedule. noon classes Jn one or more defray expenses. The weather in 5. Mr. H. L. Achilles and Mr. nfternoons a week. This list is. this ~ection cannot be depended Leonard B. C!lark have offered attached to thia report. The total upon which was the main reason their services as coaches free of number of men w.ho have signed for the abolition of the sport. The charge. for hockey is ~9. The cost per number of men who could prac- 6. There is enough hockey man per trip Will be 13.7 cents. tice at Marlavll!e every afternoon equipment on hand to furnish fif- 8. The usual guarantee for a would vary to such an extent that teen men with uniforms. The fol- home game is $75 to $100 plus the expense on those going regu- lowing is a complete list of the local entertainment. larly would be too great. equ!pment on hand in the gyl!l- 9 • I-n view of the 'lb·Jve facts On the other side we have some nasmm: VAR~ITY: 23 prs: shm and the ethereal plans made for favorable points that deserve guards, 2 goalte guards, 2. mstep the conduction of this sport, the mention. 1. The evident interest protectors, 2 nets, 2 goalie pro- committee sinc~rely believes that of a sizeable group of students in te~t.ors, 11 pants,_ 17 gar~ers, 18 hockey on ouch a basis is an im- the sport as has been evinced by J?airs gloves, 23 prs. stockmg~, 10 practicable proposition. The men their .efforts to reinstate hockey. Jerseys; FROSH, 5 prs. stockmgs on this committee have a keen 2. The generous offer of two of and 11 jerseys, 27 stick;;. interest in the sport, and their our faeulty to coach the team. 7. G. A. Welcome will transport efforts have been sincere in mak- 3. The fact that Mariaville is gen- 32 men to Mariaville lake and ing this survey. Undoubtedly the erally much colder than Scbenec- back at a cost of $8.00 per day. interest shown by the students tady; thus assuring us better ice. This of course includes the stay deserves commendation, and ef- 4. The willingness of the Dean of the bus during practice. The forts should be made to determine and Di-rector of Athletics to co- estimated cost for 48 nlaying days a: practical means of conducting o,perate with the students to de- is $395. Tl.is fstimatc does not this sport on a more practical terminc a satisfactory plan for take into account the fact that basis than at Mariaville Lake. the continuance of hocltey at inclement weather may reduce We would like to present a few Union. this C!lSt considerably. The sug- of the objections we found in our :Respectfully submitted, gestion has been made that the research. The students who were participants in hockey will defray most interested in continuingwith GEORGE R. CORY, JR., half the transportation expenses hockey failed to cooperate with CHARLES w. BENNETT, from their own pockets. In so far this committee in handing in · ROBERT J. c. BREARTON. as the committee has been able to schedules after ample announce- determine the majority of the ments. The fact that visiting October 11, 1933. Team Called Light Union's team was refetTed to by contemporary newspapers as being \green \too light,\ but they all mentioned the high spirit of those men who had no hope of winning. Some papers stated that Union students \devoted too much time and attention to their studiEs to be successful athletes.\ The crew that rowed June 14, 1875, for Union was composed of: Bender '77 <the only man with pre- vious experience); number two, Jagger '76; number three, Hastings '76; number four, Townsley '76; number five, Frear '76; and stroke Captain Tweedy '75. Union drew thirteenth position at the starting line. Columbia won, her time was 7.04 1-4. Harvard placed second Dartmouth third. Pr.inceton broke an oar thus conceding twelfth place to Union whose \progress was im- peded by the wash of one of the Ji.ttle steamers that plied the lake during the race.\ The next year, 1876, Union again entered the Regatta. Cornell won and Union took fourth place in a six boat race. In 1876 boating ceased to be the national sport. Baseball slowly superceded it. Union, always abreast of the times, lost her interest in the crew, and by '84 boat clubs· ex- isted only in the Garnet Yearbook. Boating was revived again in the early nineties, but for pleasure on- ly.

Two @nnfJJ ~irnsis \A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ FouNDED 1876 Affiliated With Pi Delta Epsilon ~ss~tiate~, ~~ta,int\ ~\'\~\' -= 1933 ~~'!._.;~{ilov~ 1934 =- \\\\\\\ u. The official newspaper of the students of . mon College. Published Tuesdays and Fnd~ys throughout the college year, except dunng Chd&tmas and spri11g recesses. Publication Office, ']:'he Gazette Press, 334 Sta.te St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Cl-ass Mail Matter Subscription price Five Ct;'nts a co.py; $3,00 a year; delivered anywhere m the Umted States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Address all business communications to Arthur J. Katzberg, Kappa Nu House, Union Coll_ege, Schenectady N. Y. All other communications to George R. Cory, Jr., Psi Upsilon Ilouse, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD George R. Cory, Jr .............. Editor-in-Chief Arthur J. Katzberg .......... Business Manager C. William Huntley .•......... Managing Editor Robert H. Smith .................. News Editor Arnold J. Friedman .............. Sports Editor Prince E. Oleson ................ Feature Editor C. Hathaway M. Berger JUNIOR BOARD D. Moulton J. Woolman R. Diamond Issue Editor ...... Clemens F. Hathaway RETRACTION THE CONCORDrENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1933 little or nothing about the question, but if a I T I mtortehor letshs welt! deli:rehrted speechdis thrown ·. F A R R A G Q l~~~.·i·l·: EASY ON_T.HE EYES \I a · em, . .ey s ep rig . up an. vote al- I.!;.=======;;;;;;;;;================.!.' _. _ ._ though they know nothing about the other side of the question It would not be right to call all those who attend the Monday morning meetings fools, but it seems that they are not using any sense at a:ll most of the time during the meeting. If the Student Body wants some- thing to say concerning the running of affairs, it had better turn over a new leaf at once. Considel'ing the question of fencing: the Athletic Board will pay no attention to the opinion registered by the students at its next meeting, because the members are well aware that it means absolutely nothing. Those in charge of the meetings should beal' in mind that every motion that is brought up should not be voted upon imme- diately, but should be carefully consid.ered by a committee, and if it is as stupid as many of the t·ecent ;notions it might better not even be considered further. DAILY ASSEMBLY IMPIROVED One of the most profound grievances ex- pressed by the undergraduates last year has apparently been satisfactorily mended. The Our quaint little pseudonym ain't become by their senior ye!l:r smug 000 Friday the Thirteenth turned no good no more. After last week's mcarnatlons ot seJf-coulplacency,; out to be- nothing compared· to unfortunate exposure, the use of a· men-oi-tne-wGr!d, men ot action-' Black Saturday. Even the Union nom de plume simply won't do at usually toolish action 't road-runners put on a sweet pa- all. Remarkable, isn t it, that just J:;otu of the a;bove groups-good: rade, only to allow a Williams man when our remarks become slightly <>tuuents anu .poor stuaents-jo 1 i 1 1 n: to· be drum major! de1·ogatory, our identity is plaster- t a common ars 1 ust or mysuc1sm, 000 Germany's \Juvenile delinquent ed m capitals all over the bottom · 1 d of the column. What a shock to a ullU unuer 1!1:>-SlltlSnl Wrl me u e with a gun\ has picked up his LeLonu n1ovetuents, devotiOn to any marbles and gone home .... for natarally coy di~pos1tion! Hence- · u t t .., b · · r eaus 1c en e1puse. ...,er-mons . Y' target practice. If ever we heard rorth the dHvel appearing beneath · L·lre uo:>.en have .been .p 1 eacned 111: the vot'ce of .violence and madness l!'arrago will be accompamed by 1n- · t d t t t ,, . ena.pe-1 urgmg s u en ; o ge · ·ve- speak 1 'n 0 ao the language of per- ltials: the whole name looks so de- bl ' mnu this Ol' that no e cause-: suasion, -it was dul'ing Hitler's radio fenseless, so pitiably naked, spreallmg the gospel, tefor•min~i act. Repairing Byron tapologies to .,uciety, outlawing war, and others. the old smoothy): \On w1th the Anu tne 1esults: None. '!'he sur-· dance! Let joy be unrefined.\ A Lace student hasn't the time anul -line of $.33333 will be charged to the cllleigy t.o ach1eve even an Intellect-; rube;; who can't find this line. uaJ. mterest in these rnatte1s, muci1, \Vhy must we wear out the word 1ess to develop a 1 eligwus or· .social: \fool\ when Roget legitimizes such passwn. 'l'lic bnllrant. student eval-: high-toned synonyms as these: wit- uates these movements in the Ugh( Hng, chowderhead, Iooby, rattle- ul 111sto1wal pel'opectwe; he see:o' pate, muttonhead, noddy, oaf, lout, wat tnmgs run 1n cycles, not in. beatlehead, zany, et alii. one gL·eat upward: swmg, and that: In Sartor Resartus w.e chanced tile lUea ot progr.ess is run<1an1en-· upon carlyle's description of the tally tallacwus .. tie knows there are: university he attended: Sartor was t\'vo· s1ues to every momentow,, written in 1831. He labels his ~,~:uestion: he balances the con ten-: teachers \hide-bound Pedants\ and LIOns of both camps and thereby exclaims of their influence on the mtr•oduces himself to .a rascmatin:g students, \when the blind lead the \'\allelnlc game called \tl!mkmg blind, both shall fall into the l.Ol' 1ts own sake.'' 'l'hus though, ditch.\ These professors know and acuon dissolve therr partner- enough subject matter to conduct Shlpj the student, if blessea w1th G\. live or six courses, but of human' pnuosophic calm,.is cursed with the nature and the spiritual content of ,nactwn which scepticisin must man they are hopelessly ignorant: onng. .Someone has said that a .be-' h h <~e1 ~<> nut a belief until it become~> ere we ave a peculiarly modern a program ior action. lf this i5: ty.pe. But allow Thomas to picture his university in his own metaphor- true, tnen beliefs are appallingly 1cal language; into the mouth of scarce among the brighter lads 01! his Cll·eature Teufelsdrockh he puts Union l:ollege. These young scholc these words: \ __ we boasted our- ars would much rather play with s<;lves a Rational University; in the an idea than act upon it; they highest degree hostile to Mystic- sense t11e futility of krcking agaim;t' u,;m; thus was the young vacant the economic necessity that snapes' · d f · h d 'th any tia:ir for action they ma.y have mm urms e Wl much talk retained. The tlrst consideration about Progress of the Species · Dark Ages, Prejudice, and the like; is to ea.J:·n a living, particularly in· so that all . were quickly enough tnnes !il'e these. Any job will do, blown out mto a state of windy so long as it brings in the dough and eases the stram on the old· argumentativeness; whereby the 000 A choice sentence from \Edu- cation Unvisited\ by Robert Hillyer in the October For·um: \One would need the pen of Jonathan Swift to describe adequately an educational system in w·hich special-ists seek to train other specialists in a world void of general cultivation.\ llOO Seldom has a teacher's bitter- ness at enforced compromise with low academic standards been more acidly expressed than in the some- what hysterical \Conf<Jssions of a College Professor\ in the current number of .Scribners. llOO Word comes from Boston that one of the big moments in \Let Em Eat Cake'' (sequel to \Of Thee I Sing\) comes when the harassed Victor \Throttlebottom\ Moore ap- pears with a sandwich board con- taining an aperture in its southern exposure ·tnarked \Watch This Space for Further Developments.\ 000 We rather Hke the remark at- tributed, in a: recent Yale Review article by Zona Gale, to WB!iam Allen White. It seems that the Sage of Emporia, when asked if he had been shocked by a recent New York show, replied: \Shocked? No, I wasn't shocked. I was swindled.\ 000 Salty advice to the Harvard freshmen by ex-Secretary of the Navy Charles F1·ancis Adams: \It is a good plan not to make more of a damn fool of yourself than God Almighty intended you should.\ In the editorial columns of Friday's Con- cordiensis the question of making the sport of fencing a minor sport was discussed. Th.e article said that since \the interest displayed standru·d of Daily Assembly programs offer- in fencing at Union has assumed such tre- ed since the opening of the colleg-e year rep- better sort had soon to end in sick man's roll. With such a philosophy' Impotent Scepticism; the worse!: m the air, the corning of God's: sort explode in finished Self-conceit Kingdom will have to oe postponed and to all spiritua.I intents becom~ indertnitely, perhaps until the cycle dead.'' This passage deserves a o~ce more moves· round to an a;ge second reading; its bearing upon of. faith. And very probably this modern education is obvious. How Will not be within the lifetime of does Old Union hold up under such our civilization. 000 Truetalk in a Boston Hera.Jd editorial entitled \If I were a Freshman-\ \The freshman should realize that he is entering on what will undoubtedly be th~ four freest years of his life. Freedom to talk for hours late into the night, free- ~om to risk his resilent young body m all sorts of stirring and exciting adventures, freedom to let his mind run wild in the literature of the pB;St or in a utopia of the future . : . if he is an intelligent lad, he w11! use this precious interim of freedom wisely, courageously and imaginatively, for it will never come his way again.\ Satisfaction is, as a rule, expressed only mendous importance that it is seriously be- resents a vast improvement over the reper- ing considered as a minor sport.\ toire of l'ecent years. Such a statement is not founded on fact. If there is such an interest, no one seemed That in whispers, whereas dissatisfaction is ex- to notice it until yesterday morning. pressed in lusty voices. Such was the case fencing is seriously being considered as a minor sport is absolutely untrue. The De- partment of Athletics knows nothing about placing a team in intercollegiate competition. The Friday editorial was interpreted by many students, and we regret to say, rightly so, that The Concordiensis favors this pro- posal. We do not, under any circumstances feel that fencing should be made a minor sport. It is all very well to say that those who are on the fencing team are willing to pay their expenses when the team makes a trip. Such a statement sounds very well, but when the hat is passed around, the heru'tiest sup- porters will probably be absent. Neither fencing, nor any other sport can be maintained as a minor sport without in- volving some expense. What about the last spring when everyone, apparently dis- pleased, did not hesitate to make his feel- ings kn()wn. Now, with the majority satis- fied, nothing is being said save in occasional conversation. Yet the fad remains that a number of students have made such unoffi- cia! statements in which they mentioned that they were satisfied with the present type of assembly program. DR. TIDMARSH'S musical programs al- ways have been met with the highest degree of approval and are still as popular as ever. The innovation of the student-conducted programs have added a new and interesting featm~e to that part of our college life. It is apparent that the student body really wants to grasp a better understanding of the field of extra-curricular activities and conse- a cr-iticism? Not too well. Do not As for the ''state of windy argu- our own exceptional students end mentativeness\ that Carlyle speaks their undergraduate careers as co-n- of, we can hardly cGnfine it to the firmed sceptics and pessimists? students alone. And do not our shallow students J.P. R. rr=============~,· the fruits of the victory. Often the W k ' B t Ed•t • 1 enemy is regenerated and attack• ee S eS I 0r1a ing the victo1·, the struggle begins again. Or on the other hand, the vtctorious force In the personality The Future of the New Cultur.e degenerates into something le:os noble than it was. In the group 1 a like process occurs. One of the forces of the group triump-hs a:nd in victory is weakened, and having vanquished the enemy degenerates, So in this college, at the present time, the triumphal forces of the liberal-cultural education will no longer face the struggle. These 000 Washington University of St. Louis has a halfback named Na- than Tutinsky, who can not only throw forward passes with either hand, but can also punt with either foot. Not only ambidecxtrous but ambipedular? ' IGNOTUS One result of the inauguration of President Baker last week was the revelation of the nature of this college as it is toda:y. The struggle which has been going: 011 at this college for many years seemed to have ceased and in the addresses of the many speakers the victor of the struggle was revealed. Two opposing forces, one tending to- ward the vocational and agricul- tUJ·al college and the other tending toward the liberal and cultural col- lege have been seeking supremacy in the policies of this college for many years. At the inauguration the fact WB;S disclosed that the liberal-cultural forces triumphed. This victory of the liberal-cultural force a11d the recognition of the college in the newspapers of the state as \cultural\ must make us wary in the future in regard to just this cultural aspect of our in- stitution. forces will degenerate and this true . rr=============~· culture will become but a worldly culture, sought after for the pleas· ures, the gain it ca.:n bring. The true culture will become but so phis· tication and polish, a shallow su• perficial pursuit ()f the humanities. The individual person, when a struggle between appetite and rea- son ceases, relaxes his vigilance; he rests after the battle; he enjoys However, this. degeneration can be prevented if the students who enter this institution in the years to come are given to understand the true meaning of culture, as ex· emplified by Arnold; if they are taught that the deeper culture is worth much more than the clev-er sayings, the polished appearances, the superficial characteristics of certain types of culture which exist in certain kinds of schools in Amer, ica today. -The ·Massachusetts Collegian. MUSIC by Rankine Hinman quently is receiving this type of programs ~-----------~· necessity of paying teams visiting here N ag1~eeably. o t e s 0 n 0 u r A course in window washing is being o-ffered by the Student Em· ployment Bureau at Harvard Uni· versity, In 1838 Franz Liszt prophesied a double keyboard piano which would \supply those contrasts of tone which are now lacking\ and ~hich would \carry all b~fore it in the realm of music.\ We listened to such an instrument for the first time this summer when Madame Winifred Christie gave interpretive recitals on the Moor Double Key- board Piano at the Century of Progress Exposition. In contrast to the merely technical display which we had expPcted, her play- ing combined perfect finesse and poise with incredible richness of tone. guarantees? It is apparent that certain people are tak- As for the remaining programs that are C 0 n t e m p 0 r a r i e S being given we can only say that they, too, Flunk Dammit Flunk • . . Roof ing advantage of the situation as it exists · h k 'th th 1 • 11 tentr'on of are much more pleasant than in recent years, Garden F01· a Campus •. concernmg oc ey wr e k' tt d t D '] A bl Ll Course ~1~ Win-dow using the same methods to secure recogni- rna mg a en ance a a1 y ssem · y now washing ••. Liquor tion of fencing. It might be expected that more enjoyable for the undergraduate. at Meals someone will suggest that the chess team, The I 1 eception given to the Hampden sing- •> <® th . . . 1 I . a· t' f th Co-eds at the Texas College of if we have one, be made a minor sport. ers IS mornmg IS c ear Y Ill Ica rve o e Mines ha;ve organized a \No Date student feeling in regard to outside artists Club\-but the membership is con- GEORGE R. CORY, JR. HOW EASY IT IS Worthless, is the only adjective fit to de- scribe the kind of student opinion that has been voiced at our recent Student Body meetings. An undergraduate can get up and make a speech for or against almost any- thing; and those present will approve his who are good. This group makes an annual appearance in Daily Ass.embly and each time receives a more cordial welcome. That the applause lasted several minutes after the close of their program makes it evident that our ten minutes in the Memorial Chapel each morning is no longer an unwanted drudgery. Last year the undergraduate body was treated to the singing of a female star brought here by DR. TIDMARSH; at that proposition. time the applause was almost deafening. The Student Body looks ridiculous when Occasionally speakers who face the students it places itself in such a position. There are many propositions that are brought up that should be carefully considered before a vote .are received in a like manner. On the whole, it is the general opinion around the campus that that one phase of our life here is on the is taken. Usually the voters know and care upturn. stantly changing. * * * The architecture at the Century of Progress has led New York Uni- versity to establish a course in Form and Color. * \ \ \Flunk Dammit Flunk\ is not another of those college movies, but a new fraternity at the Uni- versity of Alabama, in which lesser intellectual gia:nts may find sym- pathy. * * * All fraternity men in Marquette University, Milwaukee, have their names, characteristics, and peculi- arities listed with the police. This younger generation • • • * .. .. 'rhe only utility for grades at the University of Chicago is for pur- poses of transfer to other institu- tions. But then, who'd want to trlllnsfer? * * * The campus of the University of Pittsburgh is only a roof-garden. The whole university is contained in a skyscraper, called the Cathe- dral of Learning. * * * According to Dean Irwin of Hood College, picking teachers is as dif- ficult as picking wives. (But can you get a divorce from your teach· ers?) * * .. A junior in the college of -engi- neering at the University of Ne- braska earns his 'Way by repairing watches. * * * Liquor will be served at Harvard meals for the first time in seventy- five y10>ars-if the 18th Amendment is repea:led. * * * Although the winter sports teams at the University of New Hamp, shire pay for their own equipment and transportatil:m, they are still a leader in eastern competitions. * * * Athletes at the University of Ohio are cooking their own meals and doing it on as little as a. dollai· a week. * * * The names of all professors who keep their elasses overtime are published regularly at the Univei·- sity of Kansas. NRA'~ * * * Excuses for oversleeping and missing 8 o'cloclts are being done away with at Ohio University. Four ba'Ild members will .play reveille from the library steps to arouse late sleepers. -Associa.tl'd Collegiate P1•ess. The instrument has two key- boards; the lower is the norma.l keyboard, while the upper piays · one octave higher and is coupled _w\i~h the ~ormer by a pedal. Thus It Is posstble to play octaves with one finger, either staccato or legato and to ·produce chord combinations of far richer tonal texture. The white keys at the back of the lower keyboard are raised to the level of the black ones so that a chromatic glissando is possible. It seems inevitable that this in- strument will completely replace the present piano for concert work and that Franz Liszt's dream will materialize. Color and Music Several clavilux: color organs at the Fair were more disappointing, possibly because we expected too lovely an effect, possibly b.ecause they were -accompanied by badly chosen and poorly rendered music. Color, nevertheless, {Jan contribute conside!'ably to music, as it did at the organ recital Sunday afternoon. A warm sun, diffused through slightly stained chancel windows, transformed the marbled walls into a cheerful, drow;sy accompaniment for the \After-noon of a Faun;\ brilliant autumn foliage visible through the translucent panes formed a ·bright but indistinct .backdrop, set off by garnet curtai-ns and in perfect harmony with the pastel shades of tone ·of the music. Dr. Tidmarsh and his audience were indeed fortunate. .I I'{ :! ·~l I l ( ' ! i' i l ' ·~ ' '\'. \ ' ·~ ' !fj I'J'\ I I \1 1: I .;;;; ] ( I -~ w u a ti ·G ir tl g tJ h tl C• s· c c j

i' J ' '\'. r 4 l d , I r 'l t .. ~ ! -~ J eJ~·· I , l l i/ I' :l 11 !! \ ' '~ I ,f~ 11\ I ' \1 L I THE CONCOR1HE1NSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1933 Three Eleven Lo:ses to Amherst; Tied; Harriers Win ~·~--------------------------~-~ &•~------------------------------~ ~------------------------------ Garnet Outplayed By Sabrinas, 46 to 0 ~w:::::::::::::::::::::::m:::::::::mm::::m:::mu:::::::::m iliAMONG OURHi ::: m Middlebury Holds Frosh Scoreless Roberts, Seeded Fourth, Upset in Tennis 'l,oun1ey In the third round of the intra- \Villiams Runners Lose Here, 20 to 35 Enjoy Yourself at RICHARDS Amherst's Unexpected Stmng Attack Leaves Overconfi- dent Union Outfit Helpless !!! OPPONENTS l!j mmm:m::m::::m:;m:m:mm:mm::mm::mmmm~\\ u ·ni'on Yeal'lt'Jlgs ·Fai'I to T. ake mural tennis tournament J o e Cohen, who upset Jack Moffett,· Gregory, Williams Sophomore, Among Intimate Surroundings This Satm·day the .Swarthmore varsity eleven will play Union for the nrst time in hi::~tory. Swarth- more, the school with the same color as Union, Garnet, has .been met on the diamond and tra-ck, but never on the gridiron. Since these two teams do not play the same opponents, little can be gained by comparing scores. Swarthmore opened its season with a scoreless tie with Dickinson, -but Saturday they lost to the Gettysburg Bullets, ti to 0. Swarthmore has 8 veterans on their team, including Jim Kelly, Ga;ptain and backfield ace. Advantage of Opportunities seeded No. 1 • de.fea;ted ConneLly, Crosse!\ FI'ni'sh L1'ne A·head . 6-1, 6-1. The second important upset· \ And Are Held to 0 to 0 Tie. was registered when Schultz de, Of Eleven Garnet Harriers feated John Roberts, seeded Na. 4, BIWA,RDS and BOWUNG An overconfident Union eleven w~s buried Saturday at Amherst under a powerful Amher~t College attack by a score of 46 to 0. Seven times the Sabrina outfit crossed the -Garnet goal, their fi.rst score com- ing during the opening minutes of the game. The Union team went onto ~he gridiron with a good ~eeord behmd them and with a feehng that Am- herst was not the strong eleven they turned out to be, 'l'he over- conridence with which tl~e. team started the game was sutument to crumble them when the Amherst a.ttack got under way. On the first play of the game the Garnet b~gan their attack without the use of the huddle, having previously planned the opening play. 1t called for a pass rrom Dain to DiLa,!lo, who was on the other side of the iielc;L. The pass wa:> not accurate and It fell into the waiting arms of Mu~­ phy, Amherst halfback, wh;o ran It back to Union's 23 yard lme. On the third play Harry Thomas, Pur- ple and White tri-ple-threat back, on a reverse play went through the lh1.e for a touchdown. Thomas, who returned to college late and who had not p'layed in a game this year until Saturday, kicked .the extra point. Captain Warner Scores After a long drive down the field and following two line plunges, Captain Warner plunged ov~r the goal line from the.one yard, !me to tally again. The klCk for pomt was blocked. Amherst kicked off to Union but the ball was fumbled and the Sabl'inas started another scoring march. Moses tossed a for- ward pass to Murphy for a 25 yard gain, to place the. ball on the SIX- yard line, On a wtd~ end. run Mur- phy scored Amherst s thtrd touch- down. The kick was again unsuc- cessful. A Union drive in the second quarter was halted when Bob Moses intercepted a pass on his own 25 yard line. S~merad ~ecov­ ered for Union by rnterceptmg a pass, but DUI1If duplicated by inter- cepting a Umon pass. After an- other drive down the field Huey carried the ball over for the fourth Sabrina score, and also kicked the extra point. On the first play of the third period Thomas circled end behind excellent interference and tallied. He kicked the extra point. Rotunda and Semerad Gain Rotunda, and Semerad carried the ball 35 yards before Amherst intercepted another Union pass on the Amherst 30-yard line. On a 35 yard forward pass and a lateral they brought the ball to Union's 15-yard marker. Murphy gained eight yards and Thomas scored on a double reverse around end. Ache- son returned the kickoff 25 yards only to have Moses intercept a lateral pass behind the scrimmage line and score the last touchdown Huey a;dded the extra point. The last quarter saw many sub- stituitons. In this period Union ad- vanced the ball to the Sabrina 10- yard line only to have the ball in- tercepted on the Amherst two yard line. Amherst amassed a total of 21 first downs to Union's 7. The Mass. state eleven completed five out of eight passes while Union completed th;ee out of 11. Amherst intercepted eight Union passes. Tile summary follows: U.NION All! HERST LE Waldron .................. Moses LT Lambeth . . . . . . . . . . . . . Fitzgerald LG Kearns ..... , .. , ........ , . Morre C Finch ....... , ........ , . . English RG JYioullon , ....... , . . . . .. . . . Barlow RT Little ..................... Potter RE Krull . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Howe QB Semerad ....... , . . . . . . . . Warner LH Dila1lo ..... , . .. .. .. . .. . . Murphy Illi Dain ... , , ...... , . , . . . . . . Thomas FB ·Chrysler . . . .. .. .. .. . .. . .. . Kehoe * * * R. P. I., Union's rival of Oct. 28, dropped a close game to St. Law- rence, 6 to 0. The Larries proved to have the upper hand in the last minutes of play and scored their touchdown on a pass from Brown to Blackford. They were outluck- ed but not outplayed by R. P. I. whose glorious vi·ctory over C. C. N. Y. a week .ago was somewhat dimmed Saturday when this same C. C. N. Y, team lost to little Le- banon Valley, 32 to 0. * * * WiUiams, whom the Garnet will play November 4, was crushed by the fast travelling Princeton Tig-. er:>, 45 to 0. Those brilliant sopho- more backs on the Tiger team play- ed even better than they did against Amherst the previous week. Williams gained 3 first downs against Princeton whereas Amherst only gained 1, but the Purple gain- ed only 19 yards rushing while the Sabrinas gained 25. The Williams team completed 3 forwa:rd passes out of 9 tried for a total of 71 yards. * * * Hamilton and Rochester played a close contest Saturday on the River Campus gridiron at Roches- ter, the visitors finally overcoming a 6 to 0 lead in the second half to defeat the Yellowja:ckets 13 to 6. Both of these teams appear on the Union schedule, being the last two games played. The defeat was the third successive beating Rochester has taken, the first two being ad- ministered by Oberlin and Alfred. * * * The R. P. I. and C. C. N. Y. har- riers, both of whom appea:r on Union's cross country schedule, raced Saturday at Troy. ;rt was the opening meet for both teams and R. P. I. won, 20 to 35. Stern of C. C. N, Y. finished first in. 25:26 over the 4.5 mile course. Chuck Bradley of the Engineers finished a minute behind Stern, and was fol- lowed by Esser, Getter, Milkesh, Breen, Tweed, and Wilbur, all of R. P. I. Hochberg, Devlin, Volkell, and Kerzner, C. C. N. Y. men, trail- ed the Troy group. * * .. The Manlius eleven, who will pla:y host to the Union Frosh team this Saturday, was defeated by the Cornell Freshman gridders, 12 to 0. The only other Union Frosh eleven opponent, R. P. 1., has not as yet opened its season. Phi Gamma Delta Football Champs Defeat Psi U psilou iu Tight Contest, 8 to 6, AU Scoring Being Done Early in Game Phi Gamma Delta yesterday won the championship of the College in the Interfraternity Touch Football tournament for this year by nosing out Psi Upsilon, 8 to 6, in the finals. The game was one of the closest of the entire tournament and was The inability of the Union fresh- man football team to take advan- tage of oppol'tunities offered cost the yearli-ngs a victory Saturday afternoon in their opening game which culminated in a: scoreless tie with the Middlebury frosh. Twice the Garnet first year men were in strikin~< distance of the Panther goal, o~ly to be thwarted by the stubborn defense of the visitors. ·Ca11ried Ball to ·One-Yard Line On off tackle slants by Captain Brown, line bucks by Englehardt and .end runs by MacMurray, the fivst year men brought the baH on a 46 yard march to within a yard of the Middlebury goal, when the whistle for half time ended the' Union rally. Again in the last quar- ter, line plunges by Liffiton and Brown and a 12 yard pass from Brown to Doyle bwught the Garnet to the visitors' one yard line, but the latter held and took possession of the ball on downs. Fumble Proves Costly Bad passes from center and fum- bles proved costly to both teams. Union made fourteen first downs to one for Middlebury. Neither eleven displayed much strength on the aerial attack, although the home team held a slight edge in this de- partment of the game. The play of Fagan, Potts, and Barton fea- tured the Garnet defensive. Spin- ney proved to be the principal ground gainer for the visitors. The summary follows: UNION MIDDLimURY LE Sloat man ., . , .... ., . ., .. Cloua n LT G-atchell ..... , .. , . . . . . . Hoffman LG Potts .. , ..... , .. , ...... , , . A k!ey C Barton , .. , .. , .. , ........ , Chase RG Fagan .... , .. , ...... , . . . Warren RT Angle ................... Seeman RE Doyle ....... , ........ , .. , . Cra.ig QB Hughes , .. , ......... , .. , Phinney LH Liffiton . , .... , . . . . . . . . . . Spinney RH Brown ...... ,. ..... , . Fitzgerald FB Englebardt ...... , . . . . Pill !Upson Score by periods: ~IIDDLEBUHY .. ., ..... 0 0 0 0-0 UNION ................. 0 0 0 0--0 8uhstitutions: Union-Campbell for Angle ; Haskell for Englehardt ; Mac- lllurray for Liffiton, McKan for Bloat- man. Middlebury-Hanson for Chase; Ward for Spinney; Hazeltine for Chase; Benardini for Craig; Lanargen for Spinney; Vassar for Aliley; Ber- man for Warren; Ward for Phillip- son. Officials: Umpire--Williams of Michigan State. Referee--Rafter of Syracuse ; Head linesman-Miller of Cornell. UNION'S OLD STANDBY Our Work and Prices Are Competitive GARNET TAILOR 305 Liberty St. Tel. 4-0122 Bellinger Paint Co. ARTHUR TRIGG, Prop. Paints, Oils, Varnishes, Glass Brushes and Wall Paper 126 BROADWAY Score by periods: decided in the opening quarter Al\!HERST ............ 19 7 2(} 0-46 when the Fijis scored on a touch- UNION ..... , .... , .. , . o o o O- o back. Immediately thereafter both teams scored touchdowns on for- Scoring Touchdowns-Thomas 3 ward passes. The score at the end Warner, Murphy, Huey (for Warner) f th fi t Moses. Points from try after touch~ 0 · e rs quarter remained un- down-Eng!ish, Huey 2, Thomas (all changed throughout the remainder place ktclts). Substitutions: Union-- of the contest. Rolunda, Stevenson, Agius, Crane, The ,two teams weathered a diffi- Kendrick, McNab, •Connelly, Acheson cult tournament schedule to reach Parker, Greenberg, Dyal, Qp.penheim, the final round .. The Pht' Gams won Woodruff, Hutton. Referee--C. Waters (Wllliams). Umpire-J. F. Farrell iJ?.e championship by defeating Phi (Michigan). Head linesman-F. X SI~a Kappa, Kappa Sigma, Delta Keating (Springfield). Field judge--J Upsilon and Psi U in the finals. lil. Barry (Bowdoin) They drew a bye in the semi-final THE ACME HOUSE LINEN SUPPLY CO.. Inc. Rents Linen for all Occasions (You pay for Laundry Work only) 1030 BARRET ST. Phone 4~9310 6-2, 3-6, 6-4. In the la:test matches of the second round, Conne!Jy de- A home stretch sprint on the· part feated Apgar, 6-1, 610; and McGee of Nestle, Garnet harrier, was downed Schuman, 6-2, 6-2. ·thwarted by Gregory, a Williams Other third l'OUnd results are: sophomore, who maintained his Stroebel won. over McGee, 6-4, 6-3, speedy pace to place first in the and Griswold and Wassmansdorf Union-Williams cross country meet advanced by default. There are which was won by Union, 20 to 35, three third ·round matches yet to on the 4 ¥., mile Alexander course be played: Slobod versus Fraser, here. Keats against Oppenheim, and Union captured the meet in the Lindabury against Firth. first half. Over the last two miles Golfers Decline to Elect. Successor to Groesbeck Out of .respect for Charles Groes- beck, Captain-elect of the 1934 Golf team, now deceased, the remaining members of the team declined to elect a successor a:t their meeting held for that purpose yesterday. They diO. however designate Joseph Horvath, Jr. as their Man- ager and Acting Captain for the coming season. Horvath is a Sen- ior residing at Farmingdale, Long Island, and a member of the Phi Sigma Kappa fraternity. -----0 CHESS CLUB NOTICE Meeting of Chess Club tonight at 8:00 o'clock in the Library of the Civil Engineering Building. Gregory was the only Williams man in scoring posit.ion. He kept a: steady even pace and led at the finish. The Union team displayed excel- lent balance throughout the race. Mirate .scored a close third, and· Kazmierczak tied with Br.ockwehl for the next two places. Eleven Garnet men finiohed before the sec- ond Willia,ms zunner. The summ81l'ies follow: 1. Gregot-y, Vi'illiarns .......... 27:14 2, Nestle, Union ............... 27:-16 3. 1Iirate, Uniun ............... ::7:31 4. Kazmier<·zak, Union ..... , , . 27:-17.6 Rrodtwehl, Union .......... 27:47.6 6. Gottschalk, Union , .. , ....... 28:05 Lape, Union ..... , .......... 28:05 8. Bastedo, Union ........ _ ..... 28:40 North, Union ................ 28:40 10. I~ern, Union ................ ~9: 18.6 l':euman, Unwn ..... ., .... , ~9: 18 6 12. \Vall her. Union ... , .. , .. _ .. 29:-14:8 13. C'rowfoot, \Villiams ........ 29:55.6 14. {}oodbo,Jy, \Villiams . , ....... 30:08 15. Ninde, Williams .. , .. , .. , .. 30:08.2 16, !\1C'\'e!gh, Williams .. , ....... 30:32 506 State Street The HAWTHORNE CLUB SANDWICHES and COLD DRINKS 216 Lafayette Street THE BEACON GRILL Serving Delicious Sandwiches Fried Oysters and Clams On the Half Shell 756 ALBANY STREET \On the Crest of the Hill\ DEWITT'S LUNCH Opposite New City Hall 118 Jay Street HENRY'S BARBER SHOP BARBERING and MANICURING 4 N. Y. C. Arcade HARVEST TIME FALL- Place Your Business With CONCORDIENSIS ADVERTISERS Deserve round. Psi Upsilon entered the finals after defeating Phi Sigma INTERFRATERNITY TRACK Delta, Sigma Chi, and Theta Nu ___ Epsilon. They also drew a bye in '-----------------' the quarter-finals as a result of rthe ·- Eleven groups have already de- defaulting of Beta Theta Pi. ------------------------- cided to participate in the Interfra- Th_e line-up of the winning team ternity track meet tomorrow and conststed of the following men. Ackerm.an, Wittk~, ~ulsart, Thomp~ Thursday. Tomorrow at 4:30 the son, Gnswold, Griffmg, Wilson and 100\yard dash, high jump, discuss, substitute Keens. Psi Upsilon was shot put, and pole vault will be run represented in the finals by Ander- · t son, Cadwallader, W. Cory Gane off. The rest of he events will take Ellithorn, Turner apd Hawks, su~ place on Thursday, stltutes Thatcher and Furgeson. ST. REGIS PHARMACY Charles R. Carey,e Prop. 600 Union Street PHONE 4-i123

Four THE CONCORDLENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1933 - Chemistry Students Witness Process • , ; , 0 1u < • e :: : on • emz lC YO essor less part of the .population de· A S C E t ltll\eet at N W I I N S 't • p f people kicked out of jobs, a help- City Hall on October 24th · N O T I C E S . Describes Nazi Germany nounced, and some ha-zy racial Of Paper Making At Nearby Plant Ideals .pFoposed. The time really --------------- --- reminds me very often of the last At a: meeting of the Amel'ican - <C t· d f p 1) mon· -ths of the war. r had this By ROBERT C. COONEY h mistry stu- About thirty-five c eti. process d t witnessed the en .. I e ens kin Wednesday after- of paper mt{:' fi~st of a series of noon on e 1 . t ·n this · ·t~ to industrial pan s 1 d Xl~~r'ict. The trip was condllcte b Dr Charles B. Hurd and Dr. l bert K Bacon through the cour- te~ of the We':lt Virginia Pap_er \'J Pulp Company in Mechamc- ~~1 N y These trips ai•e bemg ~a~~ i~ c;njunction with: thelnew ~r g course in Industnal C :lem- rea m . d f . miors and sen- istry, reqmre. 0 SJl · Chemistry iors in the B. · m coTurhsee.raw materials for the paper d poplar ·nctustry are spruce an !.vood water sulphur, limestone and :tlt ' Most ' of their wood now ~o~es from northern New York by rail although in the summer Jhe~ have some shipped fr.om ov~ Scotia to New York by boat an then by barge to their docks. The water comes from the canal. The sulphur is shipped in from south- t rn Texas and the limestone ~~~~ Bald Mountain near Schuyler- ville. N. Y. Wood Bl·ought on Con1·Pyor The wood is brought on a con- veyor from the wood pile_ i~to the chippino- building where 1t IS fi1st washed'\' barked, and the bad spo~s taken ~ut of each piece befot·e rt is sent to the chippers. Het·e ~ven the big~est Jogs are brolten up mto chips about one inch square a_nd one quarter inch thick. These chips are then screened to remove th<> ~awdust which is burned for power. From the chopping hou-;e lh<' sifted chips go again by con\l<'Y?rs to either the soda process b~1l~mg or the sulphite process bUJidmg. However at pr·coent, only the >UI· phite proc\!ss is ust>d. Forml'rly the sulphite pt·ocess was used on the long-fibered spruce and the soda process on the short-flbered poplar. The combination of these two pulps gave the best paper but now for economical reasons the chPaper .~Ill· phite pi ocess is used on both kmd~ of wood. . . In the sulplutc process bUJldmg the pulp is cooked for about ten and a half hours under about fifty pounds pressure and between 300- 400 degrees C. The active_ agt•n t !n this cooking is the calcrum . ac~d sulphite whieh dissolves the llgnm in the pulp. To prep~n~ this and sulphite, the sulphur ts burned_ to sulphur dioxide and combined w1th slaked lime, the lime being obtain- ed by burning in lime ltilns their limestone, mainly calcium carbon- ate. When the cooking is fi~ished. the pulp is shot out of the dtgestor by pressure against a steel wall to break up the form of the chip~ The relief gas from these d~c;estors is saved and used over a gam. Pulp Washi>d and Screl'ned The broken up pulp is then wash· ed and screened to remove the heavy fibers that haw'n't been di· gested, big- chips and dirt. The_n after further washing the pulp Is run into a large tank, and chlorine water. and bleach are added. The bleach acts while the pulp slowly settles through a gravity system. The chlorine is obtained. by elec- trolyzing brine (Ill salt solution.) The' chlorine water is obtained by adding water to the chlorine and the bleach by adding lime to t~e chlorine. This bleached pulp Is then washed very thoroughly be- fore it i>' put into the beaters. Here the soda pulp. sizing rosin and pig-- ment are added depending- on what type of finished produet is desired. The beaters are continuous rna- chines equipped with knife-edge cu-tters which thoroughly rnix these ingredients and adjust the length of the fiber. From the beacers the pulp g-oes to the paper machine. the most sig-nificant part of which is a con- tinuous wire meRh mountrr! on a table which vibrates sidewan'. Thi>l ~h'lltf'!'l the p11lp Q.Qwn nutu it i>< rornpaet enmurh to pir-k off and put on a cold roller. Then it goes between manv hPatPd rolls undPr presBurP untii it finally comes out as paper. Pressf'd BetwN'n 5-Ton Rol!Prs Then as a final proces\ to pro- duce high-g-rade paper, this pap[! is pressed between 5-tnn stone roll- ers under pressure. This puts that smooth finish that is noticPd on high grade paper. It is called -cal- endering. For extra-smooth finish- ing it g-oes through anothe1· calen- dering process rall<>cl \super-calen- dering.\ If in th<' calrndeling piO- cess thf' pnpH· is no! of thP desirrd qu1>1ity it is torn up and thrown back in to the bPntPrg to bP ust·d again. After lhPse ra!Pndcring processes the paper i\ cui and trimmed to the dPsirPd sir.<'e, count- ed. packPd and ston•d. The next trip will bo on \\\Pdnes- day, Novemb.'r 1. whrn tlw rhl'nl· istry mnjors anr! stn<i<'nl s of Ot·· ganic Chemistry will vi,.,it the Hwl- son Valley Coke and Produets Co. in Troy. ------0----- BOOK STORE HOURS The Book Store will now be open from 8:45 to 12:00 and frorn 1:15 to 5:00, These new hours become pf- fective immediatPly. Rosendale Florist Jay St., at Franklin Society of Civil Engineers, held on · on mue rom age · .October 10th, Pierre Hulsart, '34, CONCORDIENSIS REPORT:E;RS time of all history, havjng already same strange f;eJi.ng ·Of unreality Pl . Gamm•a Mu Will Hold chairman of the constitutional com- accomplished the highest tasks of and futility whe:J. life at home went · mittee, reported that the commit- 1 d h mankind, while practically nothing on as usual while really everything It F • t M t• T • ht A I freshmen an· sop omore re- has been done but a number of was going to pieces.\ ·s U'S · ee lng . OlUg . tee had only found fragments of porters of The Concordiensis are~~;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;:;;~;;;:;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;:;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ the ot·iginal constitution and a copy required to attend the class 1n · The first meeting of Pi Gamma of that of the student chapter at journal·ism in the student pubilca- Nlu, national social science honor Lehigh. With these as a founda- tions office in Silliman Hall at 7:30 fraternity, will be held tonight at tion, the committee pla:ns to pre- tonight. 8:00 o'clock in the Political Science pare a new constitution in the fu- Office. All members are urged to be t~;re, present. Roberts· Greene, '34, chairman of Pi Gamma Mu was. founded at the program committee, announced Winfield, Kansas, in 1924, with the ·that the next meeting would take purpose of encouraging undergrad- place at the new City Hall on 11 ate study of social science. In or- October 24th, It was decided to der to be eligible for election to the. hold meetings every three weeks. ::;ociety a candidate must be a sen- Greene announced that he had ior with at least twenty-four hours tentatively secured Mr. Ha:r.tnagel, of social science to his credit and Assistant State Geologist, for Nov- must have maintained an average ember 14th, and Mr. Irish, of the of eighty-five pet· cent or more in county highway department, for these studies. Alpha Chapter of the following meeting. New York was estabilshed at Union O•---- in 1926. Union Chapter of Professors ---o---- Association Meets Thursday Work of Union Alumni Stirs Interest of Geological Group. Tile work of MI-. Henry Vaughan, graduate student of geology and Mr. T. H. Wilson, master of geology, '32, aroused considerable interest at the meeting of the New England Inter-collegiate Geological undet· the auspices of the vVilliams College Department of Geology at Williamstown, Ma8s. Professor Ed- ward S. C. Smith and Mr. Fredei- ick Toppan of the Geology Depart- ment here together with several students attended. The worlt of the Union men was discussed by Doc- tor fludolph Reudemann, New York Paleontulogist. .\. paper by these men will appear shurtly in a scien- titic magazine. -- . - --- 0 -- - . Godshall to Attend Meeting of Foreign Policy Association D1·. W. Leon Godshall. Professor of Political Science, will attend a meeting of the Executive Council of the Albany Branch of the !for- eig-n Policy A~sociation. Thur~day afternoon at Albany. The purpose i:; to select topics and dates for fu- ture meetings. The Foreign Policy Association is a national organization which stud- ies international problems, attempt- ing to base opinions on unpreju- diced reports. Associate member- ships are open to students and fur- ther information can be secured from Dr. God,;hall. • The 1S2nd meeting· of the Union College Chapter of the American Association of University Profes- sors will be held Thursday evening, October 19, at the home of Profes- sor George D. Kellogg. The report of the Committee on College and University teaching, published in the May, 1933, Bulle- tin of the A. A. U. P. will be dis- cussed. The discussion will be opened by Professors Robert Crow- ell, \Villiam W. Bennett, and Mort- imer F'. Sayre. This committee which mad~ the report was ap- pointed tu make a survey of thP big colleg~s and universities in the country in orde1· to make a scale by whic:t instructors might be judged a~ to their ability. The As- sociation is trying to better teach· ing throug-hout the country, but in order to do this it is necessary to make sure that the instructors have the ability to present their subject well, and the only way that this !nay be done is to form a criterion. ---0>--- Short Wave Radio Station At the initial m ~eUng of th£' Radio club, Thursday, plans were discussed for the building of a club station. The club has at its dis- posal a 2000 volt direct cUITent gen- erator. Dr. Everett W. Thatcher of thP Phyeics Department, faculty ad- visor for the Radio Club, is satis- fied with the interest shown at the first meeting. ---0--- E. E. STUDENTS The electrical engineering stu- dents are to go on an inspection tour of the General Electric Com- · pany's Pittsfield worlrs on October 20. A special feature of the tri-p . will be the lightning demonstration · which will be given. --~o,~-- COLLEGE ORCHESTRA An important rehearsal of the In- str·umental Club will be held to- morrow night at 7:30 in Silliman Hall. All students who play instru- ments must be present if they ex- pect to be members of the organi- zation. Players of brass instru- ments are needed especially. STUDENT COUNCIL MEETING There will be a regular meeting of the Student Council tomorrow night at 7:30 in North College, Room 13. At that time the com- mittee which was appointed two weeks ago to consider changes in freshmen regulations will submit its report. THE CAZETTE P··RI:NTERS TREMBLAY'S Liberty St. and Nott Terr. VISIT OUR BLUE ROOM FOR BREAKFAST SPECIAL PRICES TO STUDENTS NOON HOT LUNCH AUCHENPAUGH'S BRASS RAIL A PLACE TO MEET A PLACE TO EAT Cold Whole Try Our Boiled LO STER SOc HOT BUTTER SAUCE 8 STATE STREET PHONE 2-6135 sensible package We wanted to sell it for 10 cents so we put Granger i11 a sensible soft foil pouch- easy to carry and keeps the tobacco just exactly right-just like it was made. Granger . man Method. . • good tobacco •.• Well· • . cut right . . . packed right. And there is this much about it: a sensible package 10 cents We have yet to know of a man who started to smoke Granger who didn't keep on. Folks seem to like it. ran er Rou h Cut • I() l9B. I.tc:crTT& \fy'\' T<.n-\cco Co, -the tobacco that•s MADE FOR PIPES i ~~ ~~ I'\ H l r . \' rt ' I ~ ._..: : ~ I r 1 ., \ l ' '1>' I '! l I i I Vo pj T, F1 W! PE Fll ] we: Ga me en< he! '\ ior Ja1 ley B. Ha Ge• Tu F. iti! bel ap] tio me tra Ph ( als te-r thl thl ] Sc de: I is nit ba J ne Cl l da a Cc all be pr of Tt C< ail th D• id to m te Ie re p: b! S1 lo :0 V\ G I? 1.\ cl VI p Sl h u 1'] ( 1 (

t1 ' I :,' l ' ·I>' I . l l .J l ! ! \l ll t· ,, ;/ r JA /' f} \ ..................... . .... ~ Concord'iensis Dedicates This. Issue in Memory of Dr. Eliphalet Nott • • Student Council Mak.es Drastic Changes in Freshman Rules Abolishing Haircuts Vol. LVII UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1933 No.9 Pi Gamma Mu Elect Twelve Members From Upper Classes IIIGUWAY TO I)[ .[)[[)ICAT[[) ·IN M(MORY 0( 1J~.NOTT UOWTO REA.£11 NOTT MEMO Changes Are Made In Freshman Rules By Student Council Waldron Only Junior Elected to Membership in Honorary Social Science Fraternity GOVERNOR WI LBUQ I/DDR£SS W II CONN£CIICVT OcroB£R- 2h Violators of Rules Will Be Compelled to Help Improve Appearance of The Campus PROMINENT CAMPUS MEN Flinn, Tmner, Hausser, Rob- erts, Among Those Honored; Elect Officers for Next Year Eleven seniors and one junior were elected to memiJership in Pi Gamma Mu at the· first regular meeting of the national Social Sci- ence Honor Society, which was held Tuesday evening. W. A. Wadlron was the one jun- ior to be hanOI ed. The seniors are James G. Burke, Thomas J. Crow- ley, Jr., Herbert F. Hausser, Phi-lip B. Langworthy, Leslie R. Long, Harold E. Merry, John P. Roberts, George Tellalian, Alexander M. Turner, John R. Watd, and Daniel F. Flinn II. These men will be in- itiated at the next meeting, Novem- ber 21. A. W. DeMatteo, '34, was appointed chairman of the initia- tion committee. Crowley a Debater Burke resides in Cohoes, is a member of Delta: Chi fraternity, track team and is a member of the Philomathean Society. Crowley lives in Schenectady, is also a member of Delta Chi fra- ternity, president of the Philoma- thean Society, and a member of the varsity debating tea,m. Of: 7!-IE OF'\I#e VNJoNC0/..1-.EGE CAMPUS WHICH WflS VIJf21N(J T-1/12 6JZ, YEJilR.~. T#t1T :D/2, NOTT 'PR.E:S'11JE:NT ( 1804 -1866 ) HAIRCUTS ABOLISHED Regulations Making Freshmen Speak Up and !Refrain from Smoking· on Campus Ended Two f~:~eshman rules and the hair- cut penalty were abolished by the Student Council la:;t night as the result of a: report submitted by a committee appointed to reconsid·er campus re;;ulations. Freshmen will no longer be required to speak up, nor will they be forbidden to smoke on the campus. The other rules were so revised, that only provi- sions with a definite purpose were kept. The Council felt that caps en- abled fresi;J.men to pick out with greater ease members of their own class and thus promoted friendly relations. Rules requiring fresh- men to use the front door of Bailey Ha:Jl and to remain seated in chapel until the other classed might file out were retained to prevent congestion. In as much as the grass is well trampled by the upper Classes, the Council felt that the lawns would be better pr~served if at least the freshmen ret'rained from walking on them. Freshmen will be required to attend Student Body Meeting during the first sem- ester so that they will be able to exercise their voting power in telli- gently throughout the rest of the Hausser is also a resident of Schenectady, neutral, and is Stu- dent Leader of the Glee Club. ·~ ~~------------------------------ year. The Revised Rules Langworthy lives in Gloversville, is a member of Delta Phi frater- nity, i'S a member of the Mounte- banks and is on the lacrosse squad. Dr. Richmond to Represent Union at Colleg·e Inaugural Acting· P1·esident Ellery to Present Memorial to State Of Connecticut; College Presidents and Othe1· Notables Expected to Attend Ceremonies Letters to Concordiensis Must Be Signed by Writers A number of unsigned letters have been recently submitted to The Concordiensls. In a previous issue it wafl stated that all com- munications to the editor must be signed. The name will be withheld from publication if the writer so desires. There are several letters which the staff is anxious to print and will do so if the writers will submit their name10 to the editor. Alter revision, the rules stand as follows: 1. Official freshman hats must be worn in this city on all occasions until Christmas recess. Exceptions are:. Sundays, Thanksgiving recess, and all out-of-town trips of college organizations. Long is a Schenectady man, a neutral, and member of the Glee Club. Merry's residence is in Amster- dam. He is a neutral. Roberts Is Columnist Roberts lives in Schenectady, if' a neutral, and columnist for The Concordiensis. Tellalia:n is a resident of Troy. and is a neutral. Turner lives in Elmira, is a mem- ber of the Psi Upsilon fraternity, president of senior class, member of the Student Council, Captain of Traclt, and was on the Junior Prom Committee. Ward is a Schenectady neutra:l, and is a member of the Philoma- thean Society. Flinn is a local resident, Phi Delta Theta fraternity, and is pres- ident of The Student Council, Edi- tor-in-Chief of The Garnet, swim- ming team, Junior Prom Commit- tee, Mountebanks, a:nd head cheer leader. WaLdron is also a Schenectady resident, member of Alpha Delta Phi fraternity, member of the foot- ball team, track team, and on the Student Council. Officers Elected The officers elected were ~s fol- lows: Reed Tripp, president; A. W. DeMatteo, vice-president; Henry W. Tulloch, secretary; Prof. A. Gordon Dewey, treasurer; and Dr. (Cont. on page 5) P1·inciple of Thing Makes Men Unhappy, Says Ligon Dr. Charles Alexander Rich- mond, president emeritus of Union College, will represent Union (College tomorrow at the inauguration of Gilbert Wilcox Mead, LL. D., as president of Washington College, Chester- town, Marylamd. During the ceremonies an honGrary degree will be confered upon President Franklin D. Roosevelt. Delta Pi Nu Makes Plans for Birthday Fraternity Celebrates Tenth Anniversary with Luncheon At House; Alumni to Speak Delhl1 Pi Nu, one of the youngest of Union's children, i;; celebrating its tenth birthday party this week- end. This fraternity, which was born in Room 7, North College, October 23, 1923, has gradually expanded until, in 1929, it acquired the house in Gillespie Street where it is now located. The founder, Dr. R. E. Mussey, who is now a practicing physician in Troy, intet:e~ted . a hand-full of neutrels res1dmg m the dormitory, in the formation of a new fraternity; out of this small beginning has come the present successful organization. A buffet luncheon and bridge Dr. Ernest M. Ligon of the Psy- took place this afternoon at which chology Department spoke at the the charter members, who were all Wednesday Daily Assembly on \The present spoke. E. H, Robinson, the Principle of the Thing.\ The es- newly elected honora:ry member of sence of the talk dealt with the ul).- ·the fraternity, was introduced at happiness of students and how this the luncheon. unhappiness, which is usually ca:r- A business meeting of the Alum- ried into adUlt life, can be avoided. ni Association is scheduled for to• morrow morning at 10 o'clock, at Dr. Ligon said that much unhap- which the alumni policies and piness is caused by principles. That their program for the coming year is, people allow their so-called will be discussed. ideals to be disturbed by outside happenings even though these hap- Dr. Mussey to Attend penings ma:y or may not be proper; The high spot of the reunion wili As an example, many people be• be the banquet tomorrow night. come angry at not being invited to The toastmaster will be Dr. Mus- a party to which they have no de- sey, the founder and distinguished sire to go. They become angry be- son of the fraternity. Dr. Mussey cal.ise \of the principle of the attended Union for two years, in thing.\ \The size of a man is . the class of '26, but left for the Al- nteasured by the size of the thing bany Medical School in 1924, from that angers him.\ which he was graduated in 1928. A Dt•. Ligon empha'Sized the fact resident of Cohoes, Dr. Mussey is that he was not dealing with the one of the leading physicians of ethics <>r propriety of any p~in- Troy. clples but merely the fact that 1m- The Fraternity will attend Sun· prop~r application of a principle day Chapel in the morning, and a <:aJl. be ve1y disturblnt;. tea. is plaJmed tor th~ ~ternoon. The State of Connecticut will the country; his students founded, honor one of her most distinguish-. or became presidents of colleges ed sons at the dedication exercises (Trinity, U, of Michigan, Knox, etc.), statesmen (William H. Sew- of the Eliphalet Nott Memoria!' ard, John Bigelow), ·engineers, doc- Highway, tomorrow at 2 p. m., in. tors and distinguished ministers. Ashford, near Warrenville, Conn. Nott PI'oduced Leaders The Connecticut Alumni Associa-: Elipha:let Nott believed that coi- tion of Union College has erected leges must exist for the \intellect- in the small state park on the edge ual advancement of youth\ so that of the new highway, No. 74, a they may become the leaders of bronze tablet in memory of Dr. Eli-. church and state in this expanding phalet Nott, who was president of country. union College for 62 years, from Charles J. Bennett, former high- 1804 to 1866. The tablet will be wa:y commissioner of Connecticut, placed on one of the boulders and Representative Ludlow Melius, which was part of the foundation both graduates of Union, were of the house in which Dr. Nott was prime movers in the proposal to born in Ashford, June 25, 1773. name the highway after Elliphalet Nott. Tea After Exercises Prof. Charles N. Waldron, secre- Governor Wilbur L. Cross will tary, and Prof. Anthony Hoadley, deliver the principal address in a-c- bursar, will officially represent cepting the tablet, and naming the Union College, Seven Fraternities To Dance Tomorrow :3ocial Season Will Be Opened After Football Game With Formal, Informal Dances highway after the great American ---a---- educator, brilliant orator and dis- Bai·stow to Make Addr·ess The college social s·eason will tinguished inventor. Dr. Edward . open this week-end with seven Ellery, acting president of Union • dances. The festivities will all take College, will make the presentation At Sunday Chapel SerVICe place tomorrow evening after the address. The Rev. Mr. George C. Swarthmore game. There will be Chappell, of Warrenville, Conn., several open dances as well as two will also speak. The program in- Dr. Robbins Wolcott Barstow, closed. Houses dancing this Sat- eludes music by the Ashford Band, President of the Hartford Semin- urday are Beta Theta Pi, Delta the oldest organized band in the Chi, Kappa Nu, Kappa Sigma, Phi United States, Tea will be served ary Foundation, will deliver the Gamma Delt~t, Phi Sigm~:~. Kappa, afterward. sermon at the Union College and Psi Upsilon. In case of rain, the dedication Chapel services, sunday at 11:00 Beta Theta Pi will give an open exercises will take place in the o'clock in the Memorial Chapel. dance. Pr<Jfessor and Mrs. Henry Town Hall, Warrenville. A. Schauffler will act as chaper- Among the notables expected to His subject will be \What Think ones. The music will be furnished be present at the ceremonies are Y e of Christ?\ by Pat Formichelli and his orches- Dr. James Rowland Angell, presi- President Barstow received the tra. dent of Yale; Dr. Nicholas Murray degree of Bachelor of Divinity Open Dance at Delta Chi Butler, president of Columbia; Dr, from the Hartford Theological Delta Chi will hold an open for- Clarence A. Ba:rbour, president of Seminary, Hartford, Conn., in 1917 mal dance from nine to twelve. Brown; and Dr. Remsen B. Ogilby, and D. D. degree from Ripon Col- Chaperones will be Mr. and Mrs. president of Trinity. Chief Justice lege, Wisconsin, in 1926. Dart- Earl Steinert, and Mr. and Mrs. Charles Evans Hughes and Gov- mouth College conferred upon him Kurt von Forstmeyer. AI Warner's ernm· Herbert Lehman also have the Bachelor of Arts degt·ee in orchestl'a will furnish the music. been invited. 1913 and the Doctor of Divinity de- Guests are Miss Marie Agnes Me- Granddaughters Present gree in 1928. Nelly, Russell Sage; Miss Lloyd Doctor Barstow was a teacher Christensen, Saratoga; Miss Muriel Two great granddaughters of Dr. under the auspices of the American Clarkson, Albany; Miss Margaret Nott, Miss Gertrude Lansing and Board of Commissioners for For- Butz, Lathams; Miss Betty Fox, Mrs. Victor Morawetz, are also ex- eign Missions in Mardin, Turkey, Mechanicsville; Mi-ss· Dorothy Hoch, pected to be present at the exer- from 1910 to 1912, assistant minis- Poughkeepsie; Miss Katharine cises. ter of the South Congregational Ryan, Troy; Miss Rita Brown·hardt, During Dr. Nott's extraordinarily Church of Hartford, Conn., from Cohoes; and the Misses Lois Me- long term as president, Union Col- 1915 to 1918, ordained to the Con- Cune, Mildred Buckley, Helen Van lege was on the forefront of educa- gregational ministry in 1916, pastor Patten, Gertrude Andrews, and tiona! progress. He introduced one at Woodstock. Vermont from 1917 Margery Reuthing from Schenec- of the first courses in modern Ian- .to 1919, .the South Church of Con- tady. guages in a college curriculum; he cord, N. H. from 1920 to 1923, and Kappa Nu will hold an informal instituted one of the first courses the First Church of Madison, Wis- dance to radio and victrola music, in engineering and chemistry in an cousin. while Kappa Sigma will hold an in- arts college; he allowed fir:;;t col- He was: also a member of the formal victrola party. lege fraternities to orga:Dize at Board of Directors of the Congre- Sc.hullll!Cher at Psi u Union, earning for her the fond gational Church Extension Boards title of \mother of fraternities;\ from 1923 to 1927 and is a member Psi Upsilon will give a formal his unusually wise (for that time) of the Phi Sigma Kappa Frater- dance from nillCl to twelve. The single rule governing student con- nity. dance will be op~n. AI Schumacher duct-\each student is expected to He is the author of \Modern Per- and his orchestra will ·furnish the conduct himself as a gentleman at plexities,\ published in 1928, and music. The chaperones will be Dr. all times. , . ,\ brought to him stu• ''Getting Acquainted With God,\ and Mrs. Leonard B. Clark. dents f,:Qm the far~he.st :part_s of also Jlllbllshed in 1926, {Continued on. Page 3) 2. All freshmen are to learn and be able to repeat when called upon: the first verse of the Alma Mater, The Dutchman Song, the Terrace Song, and all cheers in the Hand- book. 3. Freshmen are to remain sea:ted until the three upper classes have filed out of Daily Assembly or Stu- dent Body Meeting. This rule shall remain in effect until Moving Up Day. Bailey Hall 4. Freshmen must use the front door of Bailey Hall. This rule shall remain in effect until ]\(loving Up Day. 5. Freshmen are to use the cam- pus pa:ths and not the lawns. This rule shall remain in effect until Moving Up Day. 6. Freshmen are required to at- tend Student Body Meetings dur- ing the first term of the year and must sit in the gallery. These rules shall be enforced by the three upper classes of the stu- dent body, who should report any infraction thereof to the Sopho- more Discipline Committee. This committee shall assign a penalty to the offender and see that it is car- ried out. (Cont. on page 6) a---~ Wittne1· Explains Seating Plan at Football Games In an interview yesterday after- noon with a member of The Con- cordiensis staff, Professor J. Har- old Wittner, Director of the De- partment of Athletics stated that he believed the compla:ints made about the new plan for seating stu- dents: at football games are unwar- ranted. He explained that the plan was not devised to prevent illicit distribution of tickets to persons not entitled to them, nor as an aid in checking gate receipts. Professor Wittner pointed out that the Athletic Department finds itself unable to guage the students demand for tickets with any degree of accuracy, and in order to better accommodate the public whose pa- tronage is a very vital item of reve- nue, the present plan wa'S institu- ted. Students have first claim to the choice seats on the East side of the field, and Professor Wittner feels that if they should fail to ex- ercise this privilege the seats should not be permitted to remain unoccupied. The system is so similar tG the one used so successfully by the Mountebanks that Professor Witt- ner is confident that the students will find the plan accepta·ble for use at ~he football games.

Two THE CONOORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1933 entirely on one thing: the disciplinary ·com- mittee must enforce the new rules with the RAN.DOM o·· BSERV. ATIONS utmost rigidity. .If :pressure is not brought ·· . · · . . · to bear the freshman rules will di.e out com- By. ~irnsis MUSIC by Rankine Hinman \Ll Oausa Perea Parole Ll.sscti\ FouNDED 1876 Affiliated With Pi Delta Epsilon @\5soclnte~, @otl~,v}ate 'Jt'e$S :..,_ 1933 (HA.nOHAt@COYI::RAliE) J934 =- The official newspa'Per of the students of '£.!nion College. Published Tuesdays and Fr1d~ys throughout .the college year, except dunng Christmas and spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 S't.a.te St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Cla;ss Mail Matter Subscription price Five c~nts a co:py; $3.00 a year; del·i:vered anywhere m the Umted State& Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Addreas all business communications to Arthur J. Katzberg, Kap.pa Nu House, Union College, Schenectady N. Y. All other communications to George R. Cory, Jr., Psi Upsilon House, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD George R. Cory, Jr ...... , ....... Editor-in-Chief Arthur J. Katzberg., .... , •.. Business Manager C. Willia;m Huntley ........... Managing Editor Robert H. Smith. , ................ News Editor Arnold J. Friedman ...... ,, ...... SpOO\ts Editor Prince E. Oleson., .............. Feature Editor JUNIOR BOARD C. Hathaway D. Moulton J. Woolman M. Berger R. Diamond Issue Editor .......... Milton A. Berger DO IT RIGHT pletely in a few years. If they are e-nforced Sidney David Markman in the :proper manner, for the :first time since. l!;;,;;;====;;;;;;;;;~===•-=====;;·=========;;;!.l some of the finest programme their inception, they will be of soine value. music ever composed comprises Now I am day dreaming, The the four year course would be dl- · the major portion of the program winter wiU soon be here and then vided into two parts. The first which Dr. Tidmarsh will offer Sun- I'll become terribly gray and not ·two years would contain most of ·day afternoon in Memorial Chapel. want to dream at all. the present restrictions. The last Rimsky-Korsakoff's familiar '~Sche­ How would I improve Union Col-. two none at all. During the first herezade Suite,\ \Hymn to the lege? I do think it can be .im- two years a very general course in Sun\ \Song .of India,.\ and \Flight proved. Suppose some wealthy· every phase of Roman and Greek of the Bumble-Bee\ breathe an in- With sensible freshman rules now in force, alumnus happened to be created civilization would be pursued by fectious joyousness to whic~ both and he came along and gave us everyone. Art, philosophy, litera- old and young respond. Unllke so steps might well be taken to finish a good ten niilii:on dollars. No, let's settle ture, everything. This would serve. many of his morose coun,tfoymen, ONCE AGAIN WE ASK J · 0 t, and aboll'sh once and for all the fresh- for less. Five million dollars! What as a means of showing that there· this 'colorful individualist composes u would I do? was something existent in the. with a freshness and gaiety that !nan-sophomore scraps. First, I would improve the phys- world before we !lcrri ved. It would ma:ke his· music at times even bois- ·ical plant of the college. In the make us duly humble in the sight terous. Without regard to couven- The Concordiensis has time and again sug,. way of buildings r would tear down of all humanity. This course would. tion he produces brilliant n~w ef- . · · that red clay brick Babylonish consist of lectures and no credit at fects, unusual harmonies and tones. gested the abolition of a tradition wh1ch ·1s architectural monstrosity common- all would be given. \Scheherezade Suite'' not only useless, but is also responsible for ,Jy known a:s Washburn Hall. In No Examinations In the ·~scheherazad!l Suite\ we its place I would erect an arts t th t h' h form the injury of at least one underclassman building. rt would be a large and Upperclassmen would take no again encoun er · .a 1 ¥' er · b t 'f 1 b 'Jd' It I'd b d courses .at uii as they d.o now, but of programme musw Which endea- each year. The casualty this fall was a. eau 1 u m mg. · wou · e e..o ~ vors to create the mood or atmos- voted solely to music, painting,. and would me:r:ely. sig·nify certain fields phere of the occasion rather than severely injur.ed leg sustained by a· member the drama. There would be rooms of inte.rest. They would then be- to represent actual pictures. In it f th l f 1937 H . d th' . . with pianos for p:ractice and com- gin to use the library and read. R!'msky Korsakoff shows himself a 0 e C ass 0 • e recerve ·IS InJury position, orchestra rooms, rehearsal around and into their interests. ·:Jubtle colorist, as he draws from in the evening ''par:;tde,\ at which time the rooms for the pre:pa:ration of plays, They would meet in groups occa-. the fantastic glamour of the \Arab- studios with glass roofs and north- sionally to talk over what they had ian Nights.\ In contrast to this frosh run arounrl town like chickens with ern exposures· for cl-asses in paint- been :r:eading. Every so often they fanciful work, the \Flight of the their heads o.ff. It mhrht he interesting· to ing and sculpture.. All phases of would meet with a prof·essor for Bumble-Bee!' contains as direct, ~ painting and sculpture, music, and guidance and .to report what they vivid realism as has ever been con- ask the new arrivals sometime just why they the drama would be taught to had been doing. There would be no ceived. those who wanted to learn. This examinations. An account of the The \Sonata The Ninety-fourth have this annual foolishness. It is doubtful building would also have a theater work done would be given in a pa- Psalm, in which Reubke first illus- lhat any one of them could give a real1•eason. with a seating capacHy of about a per written for each field of inter- trated' the possibilities of pro- thousand. It would be a modern est pursued by the upperclassmen gramme music for the organ, is The reasons why the tomato fight, the thoroughly equipp.ed affair ready at the end of the two year period totally different from these delight- for the production of plays of a of study. ful numbers. In its noble grand- cane rush, and the new \tradition the tug- really artistic worth ordinarily be- Everybody would live i~ the eur this work has placed its com- f d . bl d t b t d yond the means of a college group. dormitories. Men interested I:OJ. the poser among the musical geniuses o -war are un estra e nee · no e repea e · • rt would be an art theater. same fields will live near each h d' d t Oth er. Then there will be talk. Yes, of the world although e Ie a lf any student can give US some good rea- More Fraternities d the age of twenty-three. plenty of talk. Conversation 3:n Bach's \Prelude and Fugue in A SOliS for the Continuance Of these WOrn-out Then I would tear down the ceJ;J.- wine! Wha.t else is there to live Minor\ complete~ the program. tral heat.ing plant an,d put it where for? The dormitory buildings Our remarks concerning student opinion as expressed in Student Body meetings, in Tuesday's issue of The Concordiensis were not made on the spur of the moment. We repeat that if undergraduate sentiments were put forward in a more satisfactory man- ner, they would be of considerably more value. traditions next year we would be glad to :pub- no one could see it. That would in- themselves will be greatly im- Hampton Singers Disappoint !ish them. deed be a blessing. I would order proved. There will be reception. The Hampton Si'ngers deserved all fraternities to move off the rooms with pianos, sitting rooms the rousing enthusiasm which the campus·. It seems to me an impo- with victrolas stocked with plenty student body evidenced Tuesday SOON Jt is evident that the majority of the Stu- dent Body feels that class offices are of some value, and should not be abolished. On the other hand, many feel that a change could be made that might be profitable. sition that certain fraternities of good music, leisure reading morning; they were good. We did should have choice locations on the rooms with periodi'Cals lying about. not feel, however, that they met the campus. Suppose the college want- The whole college will eat in the· highest standards of negro singing. ed to buil<l a new building tomor- same dining hall.. In the first number especially the row. Where could such a struc- n1 t 1 d d · 't h ture be e 'rected',> Either down in Intra-mural Sports 0 y men con inual y roppe m p1 c ; the base lacked certainty and reso- the pasture or off in the woods And athletics. There would be nance in his low notes and was around Lenox Road. Let all fra- plenty of athletics around the col- very often uneven; above all there ternities go off the· campus where lege. But I would make sure that was an absence of enthusiasm and they belong. Thus will they slowly they were IN the college. No ex- feeling in their work, possibly to die without shocking the sensitive tra-mural sports at all. It seems be expected since they make sev- alumni too much or too suddenly. to me not to be a function of a col- enty appearances in two months. Then I would turn my attention to lege to turn out a lot of gladiators We must otherwise commend their the pasture. I would make that for the amusement of the rabble excellent tone and enunciation. into a beautiful landscaped pari• and the spirited paddle-swinging It is true that the will of the students as expressed by a Monday morning vote is sup- posed to be nothing more than a recommend- ation, but ·what good is even a suggestion when everybody knows that the question has been given no thought by the majority of the undergraduates, and that, as a rule, the issue has not even been thoroughly discussed~ With this in mind, The Concordiensis has been investigating the situation with the utmost care, and will be prepared to report in the near future. with tennis courts, handball courts, alumni. What do we come to col- shaded walks, benches to sit on, lege for anyhow? Let the college (something very uncommon in administration provide fields a:nd rnost of our cities) pieces of statu- equipment for general use out of ary, ponds, rolled down lawns, and its bud·get. Personal equipment an open air theater for plays and will be gotten when needed: by the Week's Best Editorial There is no doubt but that true student opinion can be expressed, but changes must be made before anything can be accomplish- ed in this direction. In the :first place, if the presiding officer at the meeting finds that he is unable to get discussion on an issue, he should have :power to arbitrarily table the motion for a week. Should someone rise and recommend an important change, giving several good rea- sons, let a commi-ttee be appointed on the spot by the president to consider the ques- tion carefully during the week, and report the following Monday. Finally, after hear- ing the report of the committee, the question can be called. In the meantime, if the ques- tion is of sufficient importance The Concor- diensis will cooperate in the same manner as it has in the past, namely; by securing and publishing the sentiments of individual students. If we tackle a problem in this way, the powers that be will realize that the true sentiment of the majority iEt being express- ed ; and they will take these opinions into consideration befoer arriving at a conclusion. STRICT ENFORCEMENT NECESSARY The changes suggested by the Committee on the Revision of Freshman Rules, which were passed by the Student Council Wed- nesday evening, are a step in the right direc- tion. More important, however, than the fact that the freshmen in the future will be per- mitted to enjoy more personal liberty, is the announcement of the disciplinary measures that will be taken should any of the rules be violated. Now, when punishment is inflicted, both the culprit and the college will benefit. The former will not have to go around the cam- pus with half of his head shaved, but he will be forced to do work that will teach him how to cooperate. It is, of course, obvious that certain parts of our campus will be improved by the extra work that will be done on them. The succe'Ss of the new regulations depends SWARTHMORE: HAIL! In meeting Swarthmore tomorrow after- noon for the first time on the gridiron Union is not merely :playing a new opponent; Union is realizing one of Dr. Day's dreams: Union is playing a team from a college of an academic standing comparable to that of her own, and an institution which has also gain- ed fame for the fine sportsmanship of its athletes. We greet Swarthmore not only as worthy opponent on the football :fie-ld but also as the friend from which has come to us Dr. Day and Professor Herrick, both of whom were once members of the department of English at the Quaker institution. Dr. Day brought to the campus some of the straightforward friendliness of the Friends' college, and Pro- fessor Herrick has raised the quality of stu- dent literary expression to an unusually high standard. There is still another debt that Union owes to Swarthmore We, like other institu- tions, have borrowed from her the American- ized version of Honors courses given at Ox- ford. Only the present financial situation prevents the full flowering of this :policy seeded on the Union campus by Dr. Day. We know we shall look to Swarthmore for further adaptations of the Oxford educa- tional principles, for in her President Ayde- lotte not only Swarthmore but also all Amer- ica has an intimate link with, and one of the best interpreters of the Oxford system: Dr. Aydelotte is .::!hiefly responsible for the Rhodes Scholars selected in Americ-a for study at Oxford. Last June Swarthmore awarded an honor- ary degree to Sir Francis James Wy-lie, their commencement speaker. Sir Francis received the same honor at Union in 1932. We commend Professor Wittner for ar- ranging tomorrow's game with Swarthmore whom we hD:pe will be permanently on Union's football schedule. It i·s one of the important advances toward the league of small coUeges of high academic standing. May the best team win tomorvowr concerts. students, if they are interested n t c u enough. The gymnasium will be Library W 1 Be he 0 ege as important as the arts building. Now the library. What is the It will be an integral part of educa- matter with the library? Twelve tion. But it will be in its place of hundred dolla:rs out of the student subordination to the library. pocketbook is spen.t for a band Ma:ny lecturers will come to which can't blow an harmonious Union College·. ~lso first rate music. note and which fails utterly to Also art exhibitions. Also plenty of rouse any of the sc·hool spirit legion of good plays. All these events will in the good old days, while sub- be as much a part of education as scriptions for publications for the the library, the arts building, the library are allowed to run out and gymnasium. the librarian who cai:a:logu€d books is fired. The library received from Students With Intellectual Inte11est the college but $1,200 for new What sort of men will come to books this year. I would change Union College? Different men than all that sort of thing. In fact I we have now. They will not be would reconstruct Union College men who will have to be forced around the library and my arts into the library or the arts build- building. The library is where ing or the gymnasium, They will Union men will WOI'k and enjoy go by themselves. They will be their work. The library will be men with positive .jntellectual in- the college. The arts building is terests, not geniuses, but men who where they will pla:y and pursue are curious and want to know. hobbies. The library will be housed Men who will have enough gump- in a new buil-ding with four or five tion to use the library to good ad- times as much stack room. It will vantage. There will be fewer men, be permanently endowed as a sep- about six hundred, but they will be arate unit to insure the purchase better men. Not the nursery .boys of new books and even the con- with wet diapers. No, by no means! struction of larger and more mod- At present Union College is no ern quarters whenever that will be more than a nursery where profes\ necessary. sors stuff education down ones There would be no courses for throat. The time will come when upperclassmen in the present sense. college students will not need any Men would w·ork in the !iJ;>rl;l:cy. exhortations to scholarly study In Freshmen and sophomores wm the classroom, or fervent pl:eas for study the good old stand-bys as the godlike and virtuous life in they do now. Only the sophomore chapel. . . . options and courses will be open And now I awake as if from a to freshmen also. In other words dream. . . . !AROUND THE CAMPUSI Rambling thoughts. The Payne Gate. I wonder if anyone has ever sat on those stone benches in front of it. They look so inviting. A student rushing out of the book- store stuffing a pad under his arm, and dropping a boolr, and picking it up, and continuing to rush. A freshman crossing the grass, and looking around to see if any other freshman noticed how courageous he was. Touch-footba;ll game on the chapel field. The chapel-who rings those bells at 10:00 a. m., and when does he practice anyway? Pr<lf. Kellogg walking briskly by. Closed gates to Mrs. Perkin's gardens. He- brew inscription around the <lome of the library. Two small boys on two small bicycles riding 'round and 'round the libra:ry. Lacrosse men playing with some sticks. Prof. Green with a green tie. One-word description of Wash- burn Halh-half-moonish. A corn- cob pipe in somebody's mouth. ~he sleazy tennis courts a:fte:r a ramy day. A small group 'vigorously dis- cussing the hockey question. Three girls, arrn in arm, crossir1g the campus. More or Less In arn old college scrapbook I dug up in the library, I found the first copy of the \Fizzle.\ \The Fizzle\ was a college paper back in 1855, and it professed itself to be the only paper in Union at the time. It was written in pen and ink on a single sheet of note paper and was posted on the bulletin board. In its salutatory editorial it an- nounced that \this sheet of college gossip will be published semi- weekly, more or l~ss.\ Torch Songs It would be interesting to find out what the most popular 'popular song' is. According to hummings, \Lazy Bones,\ \The Last Round Up,\ \Blue Prelude,\ and the ''Big Bad Wolf\ ought to put up a fight for first place. Personally, \The Moonlight Maddonra\ has my vote. And while we're on them, why are most popular songs so-called \torch songs.\ \Stormy Weather,\ \Blue Prelude,\ \The Last Round Up,'' \I've Got to Sing a Torch Song\- the best loved melodies of the cur- rent season,-all torch numbers. Shei!ey, the world's greatest lyric poet probably explained it when he wrote in his immortal \To a Sky Lark:\ We look before and after. And sigh for what is not; Our sincerest laughter With some pain is fraught; ·Our sweetest songs are those that tell of saddest thought. ~F.F, FRATERNITIES ON THE SPOT Lewis Worthington Smith, writ ing for The Christian Century, said that \The college-must henceforth train men, not for work, but more and more for leisure.\ I,'l saying this he merely echoed the senti ments of many modern thinkers who have come to the conclusion that man really should work to live, and not live to work, and that a college education should be, not a training period for business, but a preparation for the fullest enjoy ment of life. The well worn epithet \a social animal\ applied to man was never truer than toda:y, when human in tercommunication and contact are at a higher level than ever before and when consequently the need for social capability is very gr.eat At a time therefore when frater nities and the fraternity idea are \on the spot,\ a~ one writer rather grimly puts it, ·a defense of them as the best preparation for society and a life not devoted wholly to work seems appropriate. The fraternity is primarily a so cial orga.nism, and if considered rationa!ly, has as much right in the college, whose purpose is to prepare one for a living, as the class room itself. Several qualities which play an important pa;rt in the after-college life, such as tact personality, appearance, and even to a certain extent the ability to think and to think on one's feet, are more to be learned through extra-cu:rricular life than through studies. It is in this field that fra ternities play a large part. It is their purpose to smooth over rough-cut products of the second ary schools, to mature them and to give them ar social .training the classroom cannot offer for facing the modern world after graduation. The fraternity man is expected to be a gentleman, baianced, rational and sociable,-a person of courtesy, refinement a:nd poise. Finally the sense .of res·ponsibility and organ ization consciousness which goes with belonging to a fraternity de- velops self-confidence and charac- ter, and is extremely import·ant to men fated by modern civilization to be connected with social and bti15iness groups all their lives. This is, then, the fraternity's 1·aison d'etre,-the maturing, the finishing-off and the development of the social side of the gentleman and man of the world to be. In carrying out this purpose fraterni- ties are not always in harmony with the soCJholady ideal, it is true. However, in the world where very few men or women are scholars, where they are rather trying to be simply men and women, why should not the importance of the fraternity as the instrument for making proper men have due recognition as such? -The Ani.hel'st Student. ·J .~ / I <' \ j \w brc re1 ev~ -all of be pr• va W! te1 sa og th in' sa ps ra Tl m is w w: a ly is to m a V! bl pi m he aJ it tc BE ac w m G fr tl • Sl G aJ tl T rc ec \ ir Sl

·J I I <' THE CONOORD1ENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER'20, 1933 'Treaty of Versailles Abominable to To Bold Book Sale seven House Fratetnities To Dances After Hold Game Three ly elected vice-president of the soci- as possi·ble: Allen, Beale. Birck- ety. hea:d, Dennison, Galuten, Higgins, Next week's debate will be on Little, Male, Marra, Marshall, Or- the subject: Resolved, \That the ton, Strong, Swanker, Thornton, States of the United States Which Tompkins. Walker, and Witham. Germany, ' States Student in Article • Week of December 4 (Cont. from page 1) . Desire to Permit the Sale of Spirit- - -~---~----------- 'The guests include Miss Hean uous Liquors After the Repeal of By· LESLIE R. LONG, '34 The week beginning December 4 Anson, Kenmore, N. Y.; Miss Aud- the 18th Amendment, Should Adopt has been set aside for the annual rey Oleander, Garden City, L. I.; the Bratt-Anderson Plan.\ The In November, 19 18, the p-reat that Germany was not solely re- 'book sale for the -benefit of the Miss Evelyn Blozham, Hartford negative side of this question will The Acme Barb-er •war to end wars\ was techmca:lly sponsi:ble for the wBJr, And -it like- Student Loan Fund. This yea:r the· Conn.; Miss Lydia GEbert, Amster- be represented by Chester Nessel brought to a close. Germany, as wise has shown that no party to sale will take .place in the Recep- ·dam, N. Y.; Miss Virginia Peck, '37 and Henry Whitbeck '37 while representative of the Central Pow- that conflict can escape with total tion Room Of the Administration Miss Minnie Pough, Miss Barbara the affirmative will be upheld by ers was branded the \outlaw\ of innocence. The war Wlas the effect· Building. Rice, Miss Katherine Barton, and Joseph Woolman '35 and Francis WE·.LCQM···E· 5 all' nations and, bea>ring the ·status of multiple causes which extend The committee which Is made up Miss Frances Higgins, Schenectady. Town ely '37. of a common cviminal', was brought , back i:n history many years and- of wives of members of the faculty Phi Gamma Delta is holding a ---o--- before her judges and sentence W'aS whi-ch cannot be restricted to the· and is under the chairmanship of closed dance. Chaperones will be pronounced The \:criminal\ was German Empire. In other words Mrs. Harrison C. Coffin, urges that, Dean and Mrs. Charles F. F. Garis, vanquished· Germany; the \judge\ the Allies are co-responsible with students, faculty and friends of the and Dr. and Mrs. !rd. B. Hansen. was the victorious Allies; the \sen- ·-the Central Powers for the suffer- college not only buy the articles on · Ir'V Doling's orchestra w-ill furnish tence'' was the a:bominable ver- iBg and destruction of the Iast sale, but a:lso contribute as much· the music. sailles Treaty. . great war. And whatever respon- as possible. Guests are Miss Marion Helms, An atmosphere of -..yar psycho!- sibility there is must -finally re-st In addition to books, periodicals, and Miss Caroline Hol-mes, Skid- og.y cannot be conduCive to clea:r upon the. statesmen who d-uped pictures and phonograph records more; Miss Frances Macl(enn,on, thinking either on the part of the. their peoples into supporting them will be on sale. Toronto; Miss Louise Kensler, individual or the state. The Ver-. in this game of carnage. The committee includes Mrs. Cof-. Richmond, va.; Miss Genevieve sailles Treaty is a product of W!l-r But the League of Nations, fin, chairman, Mrs. R. Abbott, Mrs.· Eastman, Miss Marie Warestrum, psychology--ef hate, of f~ar, of 1r- Fra,nce in particular, refuse to A. G. Dewey, Mrs. C. F. Garis, Mrs. Miss Helen Regal, Miss Frances rational thought and JUdgm~nt. u_ndo the injustice ·Of the Treaty of W. L, Godshall, Mrs E. W. Ham- Dearstyne, Miss Jane Berberick, The very conditions of its incep~wn Versailles. They choose rather to lin, Mrs. R. M. Herrick, Mrs. G. D.: Miss ·Clarissa Greene, Miss Betty ma:de \justice\ impossible. M1ght refuse Germany recognition as Kellogg, Mrs. F. J. Studer, Mm. D>. Gildersleeve, Miss Doris Nichols, is not synonomous with right. their equal. They choose to -be Van Avery, Mrs. J. N. Vedder, Mrs. Albany; Miss Jacqueline Blaise, Where is there a man who would blind to what the thinking people K. von Forstmeyer, Mrs. C. N. Burlin-gton, Vt.; Miss Edna Will- willingly stand as defendant before of the world know to •be a lie--the Waldron. · iams, INion, N. Y.; and Miss Ruth a court of judgment composed sole- responsibility of war guilt. Yet Those contributing books can Lombard, Miss Marjorie Jackson, ly of his prosecutors? And where they assemble at Geneva to fight either bring them to the Adminis- Miss Jane Miller, Schenectady. is the man who, knowing himself among themselves for an advan- !ration Building a:t hours to be an- Phi Sigma Kappa will give a to be innocent of the orime, would t;tge in armament while at . the nounced later, or call Mrs. Coffin· closed victrola dance. Chaperones meekly assent to the execution of same time they strive to convmce l4-2662) or any member of the com- wi'll be Mr. and Mrs. John Beau- a sentence so pronounced? each other that they are interested mittee, and the articles will be mont of Albany, and Mr. and Mrs. in world peace. Hitler's withdrawal called for. Harry Cregier of Schenectady. Resent Versailles Treaty is not surprising and should not be o---·- G~~aJ;ea;,;t~f s~f:sa;~e;o~~~~t~ condemned. Crowley Urges Students Philomatheans Debate on for the World War. It is quite Wants Equal Armament To Go Out for Debating The Recognition of Russia true that the Germa.n representa- Germany asks no more than tives to the conference at Versailles eq_ua:lity in armaments, She stands nominally accepted that ve-rdict but ready to go the limit in disarma- . Thomas Crowley, Jr., president of it is not true that the German peo- ment. Hitler has issued his chal- the Philomathean Debating Society, pie have ever done so. The Ger-· Lenge to the world-\If the world spoke Wednesday morning in Daily' man government assented but did decides that all weapons, including Assembly on the general topic of so without choice of an alternative. the last machine gun, are to be de- debating. The German people have, for :ftf- stroyed, we are ready immediately After a brief history of the soci- teen long years, believed them- to join such a convention.\ But ety and of debating in Union Col- selves mnocent. the world will not go all the way lege, Mr. Crowley pointed out the The TreBJty together with the with Hitler. Permanent world many advantages attached to the various reparations agreements peaee is a wild fantasy of idealistic membership in the orga:nization. based upon it meant the economic, dreamers. So long as human na- \Every professional man, be he political and cultural death of Ger- ture remains such, there W'i.ll be lawyer, doctor, clergyman or many. Germany was deprived of war. But total disarmament, by teacher has the opportunity and her navy, her foreign territories, making arme-d con:ftict more re- the obligation at onetime or an- and a considerable a.mount of cap- mote, would be a sound step to- other to speak to a group of his ita! goods. Her army was reduced ward the settlement of interna- fellow-professional men and lay- to conform with the quota neces- tiona! disputes by arbitration men and if he is to discharge this sary for internal protection. In rather than by force. ·obligation creditably he must be addition to this, heavy reparations Chancellor Hitler may well take able to express clearly and con- were demanded by the Allies. To his pl-ace by the side of Premier cisely his opinions and observa- make these payments possible, MacDonald as a true exponent of tions. The same applie3 to every Germany was forced to borrow world peace. The German people business man. Philomathean offers from private bankers throughout are highly nationalistic. But they the opportunity to every student at the world. As a result, only a are not fundamentally aggressive. Union to speak with poise, to speak sm-all \net\ payment was made. The German dictator demands fair- well a:nd effectively.\ Germany could only meet the rep- ness and \honor\ for his people and He then urged all students who ar·ations payments by transferring he will get it. have any interest in this type of the debt to private individuals. ----=------------------=---- Thus the net debt was not being retired. Blood cannot be \squeez- ed\ from ·a stone. Moratoriwn Too Late The Hoover moratorium on all war debts prophesied the end of German \payments.\ But this re- lief came too late to save Germany from a national crisis of a most serious nature. Her dire financial condition threatened to result in a breakdown of her traditional insti- tutions and an advent of Commun- ism. The consequences of such a revolution can only be speculated upon but it is knowtrl that they were greatly feared by the people of Europe--including those of Ger- many. Adolf Hitler with his Nazi philos- ophy a>rose as the savior of the German people. From that time to the present, the strength of this man and his ideas has grown until today he, and he alone, symbolizes the political thought of the nation. The German people have vested their hope and faith in him. And to a far grea.ter degree does he represent the people of Germany than did those who were forced to sign the Treaty of Versailles. Intler Germany's Defender The rise of Hitler is synonomous with the German revolt against the injustice of the Treaty of Ver- sailles. History has amply shown Campus Clothes All-Wool Zipper Coats-. $4. 75 to $5.50 Suede Leather Jackets- $5.95 to $13.50 Suede Cloth Jackets- $4.95 Sweaters- $2.50 to $5.00 Corduroys- $3.95 Slacks-- $4.25 to $6.50 At the regular meeting of the Phi!omathean Debating Society, Monday evening, the subject: Re- solved, \That the United States Should Recognize Russia,\ was de- bated. The affirmative team con- sisting- of Dalwin J. Niles, '36, Henry Whitbeck, '37, and Milton Schwebel, '34 won a victory over the negative teJ.m consisting of Joseph Woolman, '35, Fred Feld- man, '37, and Chas. W. Hinckley, Jr., '36. Milton Schwebel was unanimous- work to attend the meetings or, Monday evenings in the Old Chapel. Here, he said, they will be given the chance to participate in the weekly practice debates and in inter-collegiate debates. He then recommended the revival of .the Adelphic society a:s a means to pro- vide competition for Philomathean and also an opportunity for a greater number of students to de- bate. FRESHMAN NOTICE Several fl'eshmen hcwe not yet rep or ted for their physical exam- ination at the College Physician's office. The office is open between 4 and 5 p. m. on all CLays except Saturday and Sunday. The follow- ing are requested to report as soon College Students 509 Union St. The Drug Business is Our Vocation .. Quality'·' Is Our Slogan BRANDHORST PHARMACY \On the Corner\ Union Street and Gillespie Edward H. Brandhorst, Leland E. Brandhorst, Reg. Pha~ Reg. Pha~ /r~~ ~~~;~~~gir~H ~------~MOO flkl!k ' --.......__ -. BANQUETS CLUB DINNERS WEDDING PARTIES IRV. ROSENHOLTZ and His ORCHESTRA Every Saturday Night-9 P. M. to I A. M. No cover charge Complete Restaurant Service On Sara~oga Road at Ballston Tel. Ballston 200 I - ttl 'VE SWUNG know many a stick and I how to spin 'em. smoked many a cigarette and I know how to taste 'em. ttChesterfields are milder -they taste better-and man they do satisfy!\ the cigarette that's MILDER the cigarette that TASTES BETTER JOSEPH'S Stan. Joseph Union '21 @) 1933, ltGGRTT & MYBns ToBAcco Co,

Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1933 Six New Faces to Appear in Starting· Lineup in Effort to Find Winning Team Sport Slides Middlebury Expected to Provide Stiff ·.Competition for Garnet Harriers Here . ~------~--------~--------~~ Burton and Acheson to Appear Sophomores to Start in. ' Frosh Eleven Play ·]}lanlius Tomorrow · Well Balanced Union Team to Be Led by NestltJ Against Panthers in Meet Tomorrow In Baclrfield as Union Plays Union's Lineup Tomorrow Swarthmore for FiTst Time by Drastic changes will be made in the starting lineup of the varsity football team when it ta:kes the Alexander Field gridiron here to- monow af.tem.oon at 2:00 o'clock for its first contest with a mrdiocte Swa1thmore Colll'ge eleven. Coach Hatfield, in an effmt to again bring the TTnirm Garnets bark intu tltP win.ning <'olumn, will have six men, who did not start in the Amherst game last week, in the starting lineup. Tomorrow's game will be the first these two institutions have ever played on the gridiron, so little comparison can be made of their strength in former yeaz s. Swarthmore, known as the Garnet in their home LOWn, are better l•newn h this teaitory as the \Lit- tle Quakers.\ Neither team plays the same opponents during the year. Bw·ton and Acheson to Start Emory Burton, flashy brick-top- ped player on last yea:r's Freshman team. was draft- ed from his post as. ca n d i d at e manag.}r of foot- ball last Satur- day and his play aga:inst Amherst has given him a position in the backfield tomor- row. Burton will play in Dain's place. Anot h e r change in the backfield will be the replacing of Chet DiLallo by ·'· Tom Acheson, , who also played JRMES H,CHI?.VSI.E><.-:J\f well in the Amherst annihilation. Acheson is playing the baekfleld for the first time in his four years on Union's tearn. Harry Chrysler will again start as fullback, while from present indications, Ralph Semerad, the quadruple threat man of the Dutchmen, will call signals from the quat·terback's berth. Sem- erad has been on the sidelin.es this p::.st week suffering from slight in- juries. A strengthening of the line will b!' made when Captain Austin Fox, r:,turdy center, will resume ·his posi- tion after two weeks recuperation from a sprained leg. Another dras- tic change will be made on the left side of the line tomorrow when Hany Parke!' will be seen at end, Art Greenberg at tackle and Phil Little at guard. Neither of these men have ever before appeared in the starting lineups. Parker is a senior who never reached his peak. but as in the case of Burton and Acheson, his playing in the Am- herst game has given him the chance to start tomorrow. Art Greenberg and Phil Little are both sophomores who have been show- ing up well in practice this past week. Moulton to Play Guard The right side of the line will re- main unchanged with Don Moul- ton, crafty linesman, at the guard post. Finch, who ---------.,...-, has played al- most every posi- tion in the line, and who capably filled Fox's shoes when Fox was i n j u r e d , will start at tackle. C h u c k Krull, sophomore, will start at end. This side o'f the line is more ex- perienced than the other, but with Cap- .tain Fox again ~~;r;i;~~~7ji at center t h e line will be well balanced. The Little Quaker evelen has played two games this year·, tie- ing Dickinson and losing to Get- tysburg, 6 to 0. To date the'¥ have failed to cross their opponents goal line although they have a veteran tea~ which is led by Captain Jim Kelly, spectacular backfield ace. There are eight lE>ttermen on the Swarthmore eleven. Because of the Jack of success of the team a revision will be made in their start- ing lineup here tomorr-uw. The out- standing backfield mea are Kelly, Osbourn, Abrams, Pastor, and Orr. The linemen include Young and McCormack on the ends, Prest and Turner at tackle posts, with Pren- tiss and. Hood as guards. Clement is the c~ter. Union Outweighe-d Unj.on will be greatly outweigheod by the Swarth:nore men. The Dutchmen line <1verages .only 168 pounds per man w·hile Swarthmore has seven linesmen whose average weight is 189. Th~y are 21 'pounds heavier per Union linesman. Never- theless, Coach Hatfield will depend on his newly formed backfield to carry the burden on the offensive drive. The speed of Union's back- field easily offsets the opponent's heavier line. The ga:me should turn out to be a fast contest as both teams are Phi Gamma Deltas Win Track Contest Wins Three Firsts and Three Seconds to Lead Runners-up With Sixteen Point Margin Arnold J. Friedman ,. ·Revamped Lineup, With Even Chance for Victory, Faces The Powerful Manlius Outfit The Garnet cross country team will meet the crisis of its schedule tomorrow when it runs against a strong Middlebury squad on the Every week-end in the .daily newspapers one findB blanks which in- --- .Alexander Course between halves vite the reader to pi.ck the winners of Saturday's contests. Some papers. With stren.g expectations of of the Swarthmore footbaH game. t ' k' th · bJ·eakt.l'·g t\nto the Wl\tmin\ column Although Middlebury has not yet offer .prizes to those laymen who come closest o pre mg e wmners .• o tr 1 • d h t ength th\ . .the f1 e~hman football squad left e er 5 r · ·IS season, and the identical scores. This .practice is the most intere;oting one to 115 t there are a number of last year's th t h Schenectady today at : en rou e \etei·ans ·On .the team who· are ca~ the sports editors who enjoy seeing how the individual, · a person w o west to encou11cter the powerful ' . . sees football from the sta:nds, can pick winners. Na;turally, the individ- ·Manlius team tomorrow a.fternoon. pable of extending the Union .team h · t t Wh t The year•'I·ngs appear to be over- to its utmost. ual can only ·pick those games in which he as an m e11es . a can Th D t hm n d\ layed em k confident after their scoreless tie e . u c e tsp r ar - be d.o when it comes to· choosing a winner of a ·game to .be played 3,000 vvitn the Middlebury Frosh Satur- a:ble balance in the Williams meet miles away? Naturally, the only basis one has in picking winners is by day and their performanc«: in prac- last .Saturday, a fact which gives · comparing scores of the teams. This business of comparing .scores has lice has been highly unsattsfactory. considerable grounds for encour- . h t b f t Th As a dt's· cJ\plr\n·ar·y measure Coach agement. TherE! was a difference run into difficulty this year, owing to t e vas num· er o upse s. e 'f -·' f t · d b t Nelson Nitchman may start a re- o ou:.y or y-nme secon s e ween sports editor of a newspaper comes in for plenty od' puns or \wise-cracks' t t the first · and fifth man. NesUe · t rt f th \d vamped lineup against the up-s a e. wt\ll prob\·bly le.ad the Un1\on ·COil- ' when he picks the wrong team. Now the lates reopo · rom e m1 - t· p t uard Haskell ~ a.ggrega wn. a ·on, g · · ' ' tingent, With Kazmierczak, M1rate, . west is that the only person that can not pick winmers is the sports edic .back, Estrich, end, Angle, tackle Brockwehl; and Gottschalk in the tor. But he takes eve1·ything fired at him arrd the following week again and McCloud, end, may supplant t f ·t• ·E'agan Hughes, Doyle, Gatchell and nex our pos·l wns·. makes his selections. · Slcati~an, respectively. Barton, at Nestle has shown considerable Daily newspaper reporters who follow the variO'US football teams, center and Potts, at guard are a:s- improvement over his last season's h i ti . h uld sured 'of the;r post\tt\ons on the for- form and placed fourth in the Ver- boih by watching then· games and t e r prac ce sess1ons, s o ~ mo t t d d t G ward wall while Captain Brown, n mee an secon o regory come fail'ly close to being. able to size up a team and give its worth in Liffiton aitd Englehardt will con- of Williams last week. Gildo Mi- tlle papei'S. No doubt we have criticized boxlng experts for puttng their tii1ue with the ball-carrying assign- rllite, after a. mediocre season last camps behind the eventual loser. It is the same criticism that is me!1t. ·fall, has at las·t found his stride, 1Vi placing fourth in the Vermont offered against the football expert, either in the newspaper or on Manlius Defeated T~ ce meet and third against the Puvple. the air. Tllis year, especially, many football fans have taken to the Manlius has played two games All consistent runners, Captain radio to follow the repm·ting of football experts and to comment upon this season and has sustained de- Kazmierczak, Brockwehl,. and teats in both. The Syracuse Uni- Gottschalk should be amone- the their choices as those of the man wllo knows. Still other fans only versity '37 team defeated the prep early finishers. Bob Lape, the win- listen to tlle football expert witl1 tile expectation Df laughing in his school outfit, 12 to 0, and the Cor- ner oi the Vermo.nt meet and one face if he shoul<l pick one game wrong out of perhaps 75. Hmnan nell frosh won by the same score of the Garnet maJnstays has been error is only natural. last Sa:turday. The probable start- permanently lost to the squad. mg lineup for Manlius will i~clude Still, there is in football that possibility of upset. It occurs very Birge and Danahy, ends; Frerhofer often on the gricliron bec•ause the game is one in which a lucky \break'' and McCutcheon, tackles; Howe sucn as an inter·cepted torward pass, oaJn play a large N>le. une break . t agamst a team is enough to spell defeat for that team. Sue>h is the and Miller, guat,ds; Tamtor, cen er; d with Freeman, Stecker, Hoffman, problem the expert races when he reviews the ga:me of the Satur ay's an'<i Saladino comprising the back- millions. Many experts have been wrong in their analogy of Union's field. strength. Before the opening game of the year with Wesieyan one New X·ork sports editor when scanning the games said, 'In Union there is strengtn, ,but not enough to beat Wesleyan.' His predictions were not Dain Is Seventh Among &n·ureJy right. Last J:t nd>ay this same man cast one MJDJ:GK vote to! Anthetst. J.\he vote ,turneu out to be a trifle bit stronger than meek. ][igh Scorers of the East All or which goes to s.how that the game of picking winners is one ol choance and the man that can actualiy find! a winner, let alone pick the idenLical score, is a lucky fellow and should ,be playmg ·the race~:~, or the stock market, not the football games. 'l'omonow Union is going out on the field with renewed spirit. 'l'he team had a bad day last week, and .it should be t01•gotten lmtrt we finish the season ana write a smmnary o1 the ga.mes. All dm·ing this week there .have been various rumors conceJ·ning tJ1e reason linion lost by such a heavy score. I will not mention any of these ba<l. l'UDiors as none of them hold weight. We shoUld collllile our criticizing of the team to D1U'Sel¥es. '.l\ne past is the past and tne game can never be played over again. We must look to1·wru-a and to tne futw·e games. One thing that can spurt the Dutchmen on to- morrow is tne support of the student bony. When one is backing a pro-Iessional spo1·t team one has to give a winning combination or erse the tea.ID goes into financial di1Iiculti-es. '.l'.IJ.e pro1essionat teani plays tor its spectators. 'l'lle college teain, especiau.y tnat ot a small college, ptays ior its student bouy. The men themselves love the game. 'lhey are out on the gridiron giving their best, but can they play their best when they hear criticism and SC()l'll being thrown at them from all sides. Tomorrow Union plays a new football l'ival. Every single man in the student !JDdy sllolllu be on Alexander Field tomorrow to cheer for the team. SD'mebody may say that cheering is high school philosophy of spirit, but it certainly helps a team. i:·ou want a winner! Then get out there tomorrow and cheer fo-r the team. Show them that you have forgotten last week-end. It ts on the records, but not on the mind of a single student. Chip Dain, forward passing and high scoring star of the Union. foot- ball team, is seventh in the list of high sconrs on the Eastern foot- ball fields for this year. Dain, who probably will not be in Union's starting lineup tomorrow, is one of ten players in tt.e East that have . scorert 24 points, or four touch- downs since the sea:son began.· Danowski of Fordham is the high ·scorer with 38 points, while Myers of Bucknell is second with 30 ·points. Rand our of Villanova, Buckler of ,Axmy, and Maniaci of Fordham are tied for third place with 26 points. Fluharty of Davis- Elkins is nex:t with 25. Those tier;l . with Dain a:re: Johnson·, Geneva; Athenas. Lowell; Mosmosser, Syra- cuse; Fillingham, Duquesne; De- !lce, Duquesne; Montgomery, Co- lumbia; Torello, Alfred; Herlihy, Holy Cross; B0mba, George Wash- ington. TAB SHIRTS Phi Gamma Delta: yesterday and W cdnesday amassed thirty-two points to practically &ssure them of the college championship in the Interfraternity Track meet. One event, the javelin, still remains to ~~ II be played off today in order to de- In th.e Ma•·l. !ermine the final result. Taking first in the broad jump, ~===;;;;;;;=========;;;!.I pole vault, and the 110 yard hur- _ T ABERSKI'S RECREATION ALLEYS Bowl On The Best In Plain Colors White-Grey-Blue. Also in Stripes $1.95 dies, and second in the shot put, 220 yard dash, an·d the hundred yard dash, they secured a margin of sixteen points over Alpha Delta Phi and Delta Phi. Psi Upsilon and Phi Sigmn, DE'lta are tied for third position with ten points each. Considering the lack of training and weather conditions, the results obtained were exceptionally good. The high jump went to five feet nine inches while the discus was hurled over ninety feet several times. Griffing Outstanding Griffing, of Phi Gamma Delta, was the outstanding participant in the meet. He out-jumped his oppo- nents in the broad jump and easily eliminated them again in the pole vault. In the shot put he took sec- ond. bowing to Waldron of Alpha Delta Phi. Glenn, also a Phi Gam, took second in the 220 and 100 ya·rd dashes. Of the remaining events, Acker- man, Phi Gam, took first in the 110 yard low hurdles. Turner, Psi Up- silon, jumped five feet nine inches to take the high jump, while Kush- man, Kappa Nu, defeated Bloom and Everest to take first in th~ dis- cus. -----0--- 0UTING CLUB The Outing Club will follow the Mohawk River to Vischer's Ferry Sunday afternoon Anyone inter- E>St<>d in making this hike should meet in l'oom 9, Middle Section, South College at 2:15. out to brealt into the winning col- umn. Union will be even· more anxious to reclaim glory which it lost last Saturday in Amherst. The team has acquired a new spirit. Sw;;trthmore, on the other hand, is determined to show more strength tomorrow as this will be their last game before meeting Franklin and Marshall, the team that came nea;r upsetting the University of Penn- sylvania last Saturday. To the Sports Editor of The Concordiensis: Schenectady, N. Y. I do not wish to start any more campaigns for making h~dball a: minor sport, but I do thmk that Union College couLd further extend its intramural program to the sat- isfaction of a lar!;e number of stu- d·ents. Today there a-re many stua dents who take advantage of the room rese1'ved for handball. This &port has become a favorite ai?~ng many who find it a very excttiD:g . and beneficial sort of game. It IS one in which competition can be ke~n and fast. It is a game which affords even mo1·e strenuous exer- cise than basketball, football, wrestling and fencing. The number of students that play ha:ndball should warrant an intramural or interfraternity competition in this fast growing sport. I realize that at the present the athletic depart- ment is trying to cut down ex- penses, but I do not believe that staging a handball tournament would be expensive. -.A. J. K. INSTRUCTIONS TO BEGINNERS 16 ALLEYS 12 TABLES 138 BROADWAY After the Game Visit MURRY'S (Next to the High School) For a DELICIOUS TOASTED SANDWICH and FRESHLY BREWED COFFEE or ICE COLD GINGER ALE AMID PLEASANT SURROUNDINGS AUCHENPAUGH'S BRASS RAIL A PLACE TO MEET A PLACE TO EAT Try Our Whole Cold Boiled Lobsters 5 Oc HOT BUTTER SAUCE 8 STATE STREET PHONE 2-6135 DARK GREY TROUSERS? For the College, Man ~to Wear with . Odd Coats $3.95. VI-:N,ICK'S MEN'S SHOP rnc •. , 467 State St.-Near Clinton ~ q l 1 i ., r , I !t \ I I I d \ \ ~~ ,, ,• :j \ t I> i f l ! ' l J r = s· 0 T( Co da wi all COl co: izE sit co: le~ orl na wi on an da pe izE th pr be th da mi E~ th clc in.r in th It te G 0 ed gt th Sc m ar ar ex vi of tb Oi in S]' tb tb cc Ia c:c ot C.l if sv si· PI ef tb rE cc fc aJ sc t:t Vi de t1: sc b, T in w g: it tc OJ it lr it sl Cl lE h fc d< d: tc

0 t ,\ !I rl !l I :a I 'I i l I I ql 1 l I I ,{ \ i ~ \ i ill I f \, '\ .! \ J THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1933 Five Student Council Requests Students to Observe Seven Fraternity Dance Rules TO THE STUD.ENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Here Monday Eliphalet Nott Sought Advice of His Friends Before Accepting Presidency has often, ana for some time past, been such as to induce a serious apprehension that I should be obliged to resign my present charge and seek a situ- ation favornble to exercise, which might furnish, at least, a parlial respite from public speaking. Thus situated, I have thought it my duty to pause and consider. AND THElR GUESTS: By CLEMENS F. HATHAWAY At the request of Alexander 'M. Turner, '34, chairman of the Student · Council Dance Committe·e, The Concordiensis is i\e.printing the college dance r-egulations, drawn up last year .by the Council. The Student Coundl of Union College requests· ·tha;t y.ou cooperate· wit)l it in enforcirug the .. following rules which apply to the conduct of all dances: RULE I.-Responsibility The Student Council is responsible to the College authorities for the conduct of all dances at Union. . . (a). Each fraternity 'U, responsible to the Student Council for the conduct of aU its dances. (b) For the condHct of aH dances held by any other group of organ- ized students-i. e. the French Club-the committee in charge ·is respon- sible to the Student Council. (c) For the conduct of all class dances-i.e. the Junior Prom- the comm·ittee in char·.ge and the Student Council are responsible to the c<Jl- 'leg~ authorities. RULE II.-·. Conduct The Student Council demands that fraternities, classes, and other organized groups of students conduct danct;ls of an orderl·y and decent nature. In taking action against allll!ge-d offenders the Student Council will consider the following as breaches of such decency: (a) Toleration of drinlting ·On or about the dance floor. , (b) Toleration of persons obnoxiously under the influence of liquor --~------~----- on or about the dan:ce floor. D H ld St T y· \t (c) Indiscriminate admittance of persons to the dance. (See VI r. al'O . orm 0 lSI and vm. • Campus Monday and Tuesday RULE ni.-Permission Dr. W. Harold Storm, a member Permission for all dances shall come f:rom 'the Dean of Students. No· of the tr·avelling staff of the Stu- dances shall be held without such permission. dent Volunteer Movement will be (a) In the case of fraternities the president shall ~pply for such on the campus Monday and 'l'ues- permission. . . day at which times he will actd.J.:ess (b) In event of class dances and dances held by any other organ- various groups of undergraduates. ized group of students permission shall be secured by the chairman of At 10:20 a. m, Monday, Dr. E~Jrm the committee in charge. ' will speak to the Bible IJ!ass VI hich ' ' ' 1s unaer the direction of l:'rofessor RULE IV . Chaperones H. Laurence Achilles on the sub- .- · , Ject \Mohammed or <.:hrist.\ Tues- At least two chaperones approved by the Dean of Students must be day morning he will address the present during the entire time of all dances. entire student body during the ( ) A fi 'tt h 11 b · t d! Jl ch d d hall regular Daily Assembly exercises. a oor •comml t'l'e ·s a· e a;p:pmn e·. or. ea · · '~~~e !in: s .', 1'• 1 e rest o~ the visitors time here be responsible to the chaperones and to those directly m charge-1. e. ' • the officers <Jf the fraternity, of the <Jther organized groups, or the cla~s . will be spent in the various !rater- dance commjttee-f,or the conduct of. the ·dance. nity houses. (b) The names of the chaperones and the membel's·of the floor com- lJr. Storm was graduated from mittee .shall be on file in the office of the Dean of Students. the University of .t'ennsylvania in RULE V.-Tim~ Dancing on Saturday night shall stop no later than twelve o'clock Eastern Stan·dard Time. On all other nights dancin•g shall stop no late:r than three o'clock. RULE VI.-Types of Dances Fraternity dances shall be of two types: Either (1) open or (2) closed. (a) In the case of the first, open dances, there is no limitation 1lri in'Vitations except as the fraternity itself may see fit to impose. (b) In tlle. case of the second, closed dances, there are to be no invitations, attendJance at the dance being restricted to the members of l.l:l22 and in ll:l25 received his medi- cal degree from the same uni ver- ::;ity. >:iince 1927 he has been in Arabia under the Board of Foreign Misswns of the Dutch Reformed Uhurch, as the associate of Dr. Paul Harrison. His experience there has been wide and unique. He has lived in all five stations of his mission; his chief work ha:;; been pioneer medical touring; he nas made two long picturesque tours into parts of Arabia hitherto unvisited by missionaries. Dr. Storm speaks in a concrete, ::;traightf<Jrward manner of his own the fraternity holding it. RULE VII.-Invitations and Admittance • experiences, and out of a warm and deep religious temperament. ·---·a--- When the presidency of Union College became vacant by the resig- na:tion of Dr. Jonathan: Maxcy in July 1804, the college had been in existence nine years, and, during that brief period had been .set:ved by three men of distinguished abil• ity. Dr. Eliphalet Nott was for- mally etected .president on August 24th, 1804, but the office had been informally tendered to him on the first of the previous month, when the trustees met to act upon Dr. Maxcy's resignation. He hesitated to accept the posi- tion for reasons which he expressed in the following letter written to several of his friends, whose advice he sought: Albany, August, 1804. \Dear Sir: The object of this letter is to request your advice in a matter of no inconsider- able importance. At ·the last meeting of the Board of Trus- tees of Union College, it ap- peared to be the prevailing wish of the members present to commit the care of the institu- tion, after the removal of Dr. Maxcy, to myself. \As no one of the board had conferred with me on this sub- ject previous to the day of meeting, and as a refusal in ·case of appointment might tend to injure the institution, my friends obtained a, postpone- ment of the election for three weeks, that I might have an opportunity to reflect on the subject, to take advice, and to declare that I would not accept the appointment if such should be my determination previous to the election. \Should I thus declare my- self, it is not unlikely that the Rev. Mr. -- will be elected. \If I know my own heart, to be useful is my great object. I think I am willing to go and to be wherever my master directs. The questions to be decided are, whether it is prudent, at All open fraternity claruces .shall be by indiviClual·, written invitation. It is expected that invitations shall be presented 'upon enterin.g the fra- Twelve Men Are Chosen · Pi Gamma Mu Members ternity. (Sigried) STUDENT COUNCIL· OF UNION COLLEGE German Instructor Explains Purpose of Modern Languages in Curriculum (Cont. from page 1) W. Leon Godshall, chancellor. The student officers are all seniors. The remainder of the meeting was dev<Jted to the outlining of a program for future meetings throughout the year. 'Mr. Joseph Czyzewski, '31, will lead a discus- sion on \Poland: International and Internal Problems,\ at a special meeting, December 19. By KURT VON FORSTMEYEB There is at present quite a heat- that the students get a sound ed controversy among modern !an- knowledge of the skeleton of the guage teachers of America as to language, instead of being intra- the aim of modern language study. duced into the niceties of grammar, Some maintain that the direct whicll may delight the heilirt of the metl.>od, stressing oral, grammar grammarian, but which always and written work must be chang-ed ca:use anguish to the young stu- an,d emphasis must be placed upon dent. A thorough grounding in extensive reading, especially in grammar is necessary to make in- view of the fact that the majority tensive reading possible. It means of students do not devote more that the student must also be given than two ·years to this subject. adequate training in speaking and Others think the aim of language understanding the languag:e to pre- instruction is the attainment of a pare him for his more ilidvan<:ed The meetings of this organiza- tion are devoted to discussions con- ducted by student chairmen or by · faculty members. Various prob- lems dealing with social science are discussed. Such distinguished citi- zens as Jane Addams, president of Hull House, Harry Flood Byrd, Ex- Governor of Virginia, Commander Richard E. Byrd, aviator and ex- plorer, and Daniel Carter Be·ard, National Scout Commissioner, are members of this society. speaking and writing lrnowle<tge. studies. Walpole's Library's 'Venessa' Among Recent Purchases Those who advocate reading as their aim and there are ma,ny of Slow Approach Necessary Twenty-three biographi-es, histor- them, believe that by pursuin·g that It is necessary that one ap- ies and novels have been ordered course the student will be stimu- proach his reading very sle>wly. by the library as a result of the lated to read even after leaving Not merely translation but artistic first installment of the Publication college. This may be true. On the and g.:muinely literary translation. Board's gift of $200, whtch was an- other hand they think that reading must be aimed at. Intelligent nounced last week. can be learned by reading just as criticism a:nd explanation carefully These books, which have met if swimming could be learned by calculated to arouse the student's with the genera:! approval of re- swimming. This is hardly plausible appreciation, must accompany viewers, were chosen by Professor since any function requires certain every page. When the . students Raymond M. Herrick of the Eng- preliminary exercises before any have learned the meaning of the !ish Department and Mr. James efficiency is attained. It follows foreign text then English can be Brewster, college librarian. The that intelligent and comprehensible discarded and the text be worked Idol will publish early reviews of reading no matter how simple or out in the foreign tongue in as these books. In the future, stu- complicated must be based upon a · dent opinion will •guide the pur- foundation of grammar, hearing many ways a:s possible, in such chasing of the remaining seven in- forms as the story and letter, ver- and speaking. !Jal and written, if the matter !·ends sta.llments. Different Situation in College ttself to dramatization, also in Among the more Important books dramatic form. A practical con- ordered arc Hug!l Walpole's \Ven- In college we face of -course a versat'o b t _,_ l'f essa\; an English novel; \The somewhat d1'fferent st'tuation than 1 n a ou every \\\Y 1 e may Autobiography of Gertrude Stein,\ also occasionally serve a useful the teachers in secondary schools. purpose. Singi.ng should form a authoress; O'Connor's \Mellon's We deal with more matur.e stu- P.art of modern language instruc- Millions,\ which dea:ls not too gent- dents who possess better mentality · tlons during the first two years. It ly witi1. the ex-s·ecretary of the than the avera:ge pupil in high adds to the increase. and enrich- Treasury and Houseman~s \Name school. Here we are guided mainly m~nt of the vocabulary &nd to the and Nature of Poetry.\ by cultural and aesthetic motives. JJ;xmg of grammatical construe- The college students are grouped hons. It also contains a:n aesthetic Into three classes: into those who :'1-nd. inspi:vationa! factor, it tends to wish to pursue the study of a lan- mstlll JOY and enthusiasm in the guage for the sake of the language students. Songs ·as ·every.thing else itself, for the purpose of being able must first be translated ·Into Eng- to read foreign liter&ture in the lish in order that the students original and of being able to speak understand, what they sing and it; those who desire to specialize o;nc~ ti;ey do understand, their in it for the purpose of tea-ching smgmg Is no longer mechanical but it; alid finaliy those who wish to emotional. study it for scientific reasons be- cause of the lack of English trans- In summing up, one can be fairly lationl!l in special fields. All. of those justified in trying to formUlate the however should receive the same following opinion: The reading foundations. In grammar the stu- method shoUld he looked upon as dents have to be drilled but this a further development of direct drill should not be extended over method principles which serve as too long a period. It is sufficient foundations of a:ll lan15uage study. We Have the Finest Dt LUXE MOTOR COACHES To be had dn t.he Qapitol District BE GOiNVINGED-CALL G. A. WELCOME & SON Phone 4-84.44 1171 Union St. •••• a bit o' style - snooping, as it were! But we want to give credit where credit is due .•. so England gets credit for creating this smart topper. But now that Var- sity-town has add- ed so much smart- ness England will be taking a \peep\ themselves! N.USBAUM'S 447-451 STATE ST. my time of life (thirty-one years), and with my inexperi- ence, to accept a trust so im- portant, and engage in duties so arduous; whether the pros- pect of usefulness !s greater than in my present situation, and so much greater as to justi- fy a removal from a people with whom I have lived for sev- eral years in harmony, among whom my labors appear in some measure to have been blessed, with whom rests the dust of a beloved partner, and to whom I am united by the strongest and tenderest ties. Into this account must be taken the state of my health, which \Soliciting an interest in your advice and in your prayers, I am, with much esteem and re- spect, yours· truly, ELIPHALET NOTT.\ CHARLES' F'ormerly ED'S 'l'he Offkial l\nion Col!l'ge Barber for the past 24 years. .\\k any upper classmen, they know. 11 operators. Schenectady's great- est barber. COR. STATE AND BROADWAY MOHAWK TAVERN {Formerly The Armory Club) 322 ST A liE STREET SANDWICHES AND COLD DRINKS SPECIALIZING IN CLAMS AND OYSTERS 35c LUNCH 11:30 A. M.-2 P. M. DAILY SOc DINNER 2 P. M.-8 P. M. SUNDAY 5:30 P. M.-8 P. 'M. DAILY SANDWICH -INN 631 STATE ST. Schenectady's Popular Rendezvous A strategic point in the battle for sales Today's intense competition calls for new and more effective merchandising methods. Several plans pioneered by Bell System men are proving helpful. For example: the \Whete to Buy It\ section of the telephone book. Here local dealers are listed beneath the trade-marks of advertised products- such as Plymouth, Grey hound Lines, Exide~ RCA Victor. This service helps manufacturers to reduce substitution, helps dealers to increase sales, helps you to locate the brand you want. BELL SYSTEM TAKE A TRIP HOME BY TELEPHONE -TONIGHT AT HALF·PAST EIGHT I

Professor Bennett Appraises Union ,s Value In Dollars And Cents To City no less than $300;ooo for food, clothing, entertainment, and other items, in the city. Furthermore,' the 362 young men from Schenec- tady and Scotia who attended the college last year kept many thou- sands of dollars in the community THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1933 Six Daily Assembly Speakers · Tomorrow-Mr. C. M. Ripley, of \Student Volunteer Movement\ Tuesday- W. Harold Storms-- . the General Electric Company Wednesday- Acting President Dr. Edwa~·d Ellery Thursday-Dr. W. L. Godshall Friday-Dr. Elmer A. Tidma:rsh, singing F r e s h m a, n R nl e s acL~~ffo~~'llle~ shall take effect upon' T~?r~c2i~D:~~s:ee~~;:'I~f the Th St d Freshman a;nd Sophomore Boards Chang . e·d by ·Co, 11:,1· n·ct\J·. ·.. '' e u ent Council went on rec- T c . d\ ' t . ht t u. OJ;'d as favoring a change in the of he · oncor 1ens1s omg a system of collecting tickets at foot- 7:30 in the Concordiensis office. All ball games. members who were not present at the meeting last Friday must at- CCont. from page 1) The motion was ·car·ried that a tend. Others are excused. Those The Sophomore Discipline Com- committee ·be a<ppointed to imresti- not attending will be dropped from mittee shall be appointed by the gate Student taxes with the view th t ff Student Council. of possible revision. Daniel Flinn . ,!:!!e:;...:s~a!!;·!..' -----~--~----~ Penaltie.:l for infraction of the '33, president of the Col].ncil, chose F!·eshman Rules shall consist of ·William Waldron, '35 as chairman Enjoy Yourself at Professor William W. Bennett of the departme>nt of economics was approached by a local newspaper reporter some time ago and asked what Union College meant to Sche- nectady in \cold cash.\ Now Prof. Bennett was· a:ccosted once before by this 'pers·istent pest,' and be was prepared to answer him. He took out his pad chuck full of facts and, before he fln·ished, he had the reporter bdicve that Schenectady owed Union a pretty sum of money. which would have gone away had· :.......-........_ ___ _....._ ___ ~\\'-~--' these young men attended other colleges. The advantages which ar~ gained by having citizens who loyally support the home merchant apply no less to the support of the home college. of this committee. He will be as- · either: (1) working on the athletic sisted by Henry Gulnac; '34, Austin,,! fleld, (2) working for Professor J. R d T \The college payroll for 1932-33,\ 1·eads the artide, \contained 81 members of the faculty and 57 other Pmployees. In addition the 23 fraternities employ no fewer than 40 persons, so that the total number of jobs which may be at- tributed directly to the college is 178. The payroll for these em- ployees i:; cDnsiderably above $300,- 000 per year. These people ar~ all residents of the city. Many of them at·e propE>z·ty owners and taxpayP'l'S who support Schenectady mer- chants. As a matter of fact, the totaL annual budget of slightly less than half a million dollars is spent in Schenectady. Consume SPI'vic~s H~'>rE> \It is important to note, however, that unlike a factory the people who buy the servic~s offered by the college must rome to SchPnectady to consume these services. In 1932- 33 there were 570 young men who came to Union ft om towns other than Schenectady and Scotia, These students undoubtedly spent SATURDAY and SUNDAY EXCURSION TO NEW YORK CITY A beautiful ride during the fall sea.son in modern de luxe motor coaches at the very reasonable price of $5.00, including room in Hotel Taft- , Twin beds and pri· vate ·baths !two people in a room), Hotel Taft is one of New York's finest hotels. Bus fare alone is $3.50 round trip Secure your reservations now A. E. and E. L. WADE PHONE 2-6836-R I I i li'Iont>y Comes from Outside \It should be noted that a high per·centa~c of the money which comes to the college through Hs endowment and from tuition comes ft·om the outside. If the college were tax-supported, the taxpayers of the city would bear the burden. As it is, the coi!ege costs no one in the city one penny, except the par- ents who send their sons to the col- lege. The records show that the tuition fees cover less than one half of the amount spent by the coll<ege on the individual student. There are few places in this world where one can buy a service for half of its cost.\ Compliments of Union National Bank CHEMISTRY CLUB TO MEET Harold Wittner, (3•) any current Fox, '35, ' ee ripp, '34, <and Dun-•, task for the betterment of college can McNab, '35. Pl'Opeity. --------------- Among Intimate Surroundings Thirty-five members were present nt a meeting of the Chemistry Club held Wednesday afternoon. Plans for the coming year were discussed, and it was a:nnounced i,hat Dr. Wtl\ ~on wiU speak at the next meeting which will be held Tuesday even- ing at 8:00 o'clock in the Chemistry Building. THE BEACON GRILL , · . Serving Delicious Sandwiches Fried Oysters and Clams On the Half Shell 756 ALBANY STREET \On the Crest of the Hill\ THE CAZETTE PRESS PRINTERS ROSENDALE FLOWER S H 0 P .Schenectady',; Telegra,phic Florist Flowers of Quality 124 Jay Sh·eet Phone 4-0540 Opp. City Ilall HENRY'S BARBER SHOP BARBERING and MANICURING 4 N. Y. C. Arcade Bellinger Paint Co. ARTHUR TRIGG,. Prop, Paints, Oils, Varnishes, Glass Brushes and WaH Paper 126 BROADWAY BILLIARDS and BOWUNG 506 St~te Street L . F . N I C K L A S , I n c. '164 Jay Street EXCLUSIVE MEN'S SHOP CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS, HATS AND SHOES OF THE BETTER KIND TREMBLAY'S Liberty St. and Nott Terr. VISIT OUR BLUE ROOM FOR BREAKFAST SPECIAL PRICES TO STUDENTS NOON HOT LUNCH-25c FOR ALWAYS LU~KIES PLEASE Choice tobaccos rolled right-no loose ends ALWAYS tlte.Jinest tobaccos ALWAYS the finest worhmanshp ALWAYS Iuchies please I When smoking a Lucky, have you noticed the long white ash? That's the sign of fine, choice Turkish and Domestic tobaccos. And have you noticed how fully packed Luckies are with these choice tobaccos-rolled right-so round-so pure-with no loose ends. Luckies always please! Cop~ls:ht, 1999, Tho .A.morlc.;. Tobacco companJ. ''if's toasted \ FOR THROAT .PROTECTION-FOR BETTER TASTE GL T Ki1 Fir aJ ·~ Vol. I Dr Me Actin r d FA Gover Bro Ere Anot1 Union's afterno necticu cises ol rial H Warrer: On t way, N a bron in mer: .preside years, Connec Union L. Crc address naming now nee and d Ed ware Union address Indi \Tod' mous I portan1 tion er of ad; simply but an are ins ,., oftentil ·- \.)' ' I . .J;! / t. !( I a progrel out th Russel: today ment b work~: \Dr. widely terest- Union ter of college withou was a1 the tVI llstb C techno. cation< countr· doors 1 knew life di confirn to Uni stitutic 0 \Con and j~,; which in this Union State Churc1 Colleg• State in Co portan gradtu many \ThE The pl ment. past~ dedica achiev \Go. the. 13. reside: and ir cut's ~ dis tin~ to yot nectic comm work. Union ment AIUI Delt Thil annlv• ternit -last S ers in '24, S1 Dr. B Willis City; Is lane ventic were anniv Afb game the a joyed. mode

GLEE CLUB To Go Tp Kingston For First Appea.r- ance of the UNION COLLEGE, SCHENEcTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1933 Support The Booksale Sponsored by Faculty Women's Club Week of Nov. 28th ..,._. ...... ~ ................. .... No.lO V()l. LVII ============~============~================~= Dr Ellery Speaks at NoitKingston Concert Loan Fund to Get'Dr. Jones a Fine ·Christian • • . • . . G • To Be Glee ·Club's Books ale Profits G. l . , MemorialHtghway ExerciseS: First Appearance From Faculty Sale ent eman, Declares Ellery Acting President Paying Tribute te Dr. Eliphalet Nott Describes \Educational Earthquake\ Pro· duced by Progressive Policies of Deceased Head· Tidmarsh Will Play on Organ; Raoul Nadeau, Atwater• Kent Winner, Vocal Soloist Contributions ()f Periodicals, Phonograph Records, Books, And Prints Are Requested Complications F1·om Cold Fatal to Popular 1\Iemoer Of Faculty Who Passes A way at His Home After Illness of One Week; Death a Great Shock to All FAMOUS SONS CITED Governor Cross Accepts the Bronze Memorial Tablet Et·ected by Conn. Alumni Another inscription was made on Union's page of history Saturday afternoon when the State of Con- necticut held the dedication exer- cises of the Eliphalet Nott Memor- rial Highway at Ashford, near Warrenville, Connecticut. On the edge of the new high- way, No. 74, m a small state park, a bronze tablet has been erected in memory of Dr. Eliphalet Nott, .president of Union College for 62 years, from 1804 to 1866, by the Connecticut Alumni Association of Union College. Governor Wilbur L. Cross delivered the principal address in accepting the tablet, naming the highway after the re- nowned educator, eloquent orator, and distinguished inventor. Dr. Edward Ellery, acting president of Union College, in his presentation address said in part: Individual and Idea Honored \Today we commemorate a fa- mous past and we dedicate an im- portant present ... When a genera- tion erects a memorial to a figure of a day that is gone, it is not simply an individual who is honored but an idea. A man. and his work are inseparable. A man's work is oftentimes a great gift to human progress, and just as the \gift with- out the giver Is bare\ as James Russell Lowell sang once, so we today memorialize in this monu- ment both a gift and a giver, man's work and a man.. \Dr. Nott knew youth varied widely in mental abilities and in- terest-and his administration at Union College was hardly a quar- ter of a century old before the college offered courses of study without Latin and Greek. That was an educational earthquake in the twenties and thirties of the lilth Century. While science and technology were still in their edu· catiunal swaddling clothes in this country, Union College opened its doors to young engineers. Dr. Nott knew that one mistake in a lad's life did not stamp the boy as a confirmed criminal and welcomed to Union failures from sister in- stitutions. Connecticut's Union Men \Connecticut history illustrates and justifies that educational i~ea, which found an early ex.press10n in this country at Union College. Union College has given to this State a Bishop of the Episcpal Church, two Presidents of Trinity College, a Lieutenant Governor, a State Secretary, a representative in Congress, two judges of im- portant courts, and about 135 other graduates-substantial citizens in many different walks of life. \The past is ours for inspiration. The present is ours for accomplish- ment. We commemorate here the past-a man and his work. We dedicate here the present to the achievement of an idea. Dr .. Ba,rstow Speaks At Sunday Serviee \Tme Spiritual Intelligence Rests on the Intellectual Power,\ Says Dr. Barstow \\Vhat think ye of Christ?\ ask· ed Dr. Robbins Wolcott I:Sar~tow, r'I·eBident of Hartford Semmary l!~oundation in Sunday Chapel sei· vices held i~ the Memorial L;hapel ... There are, he stated, three possi- ble answ~1·s. He used the Uta! of Christ before Pilate to illustrate his point. The first answer is th:at given by th~ Pharisees when Chnst. was brought to trial. 'If He had not been an evil-doer,\ they cried, \we would bring no charges.\ Christ was a distmber of the ·sta· tus quo\ by which the Pharisees made their .largest profit. We ca.n apply the same answer to the satne question today. Thtl second an,;wer is that of in· difference. -When Christ was brought before Pilate, Pilate answered to the accusations of the Pharisses that he found no fault with Him. Pilate was not well versed with the past history of Christ and was merely presiding at a trial. He was on the verge of letting his prison- er go free until he was persuaded not to. \We are apt to have this same indifference today. We have followed all the .big men of the world without question, but true spiritual intelligence rests on the intellectual power,\ said the speak- er. The thtrd and best answer to the question is that of Christ's own disciples. 'Lord,\ they asked, \to whom shalt. we go? Thou hast the answer to eter.:n'(!l life.\ They ac- cepted his wayS'~nd dedicated their souls to the kingdom. of .Cod. The result, Dr .. Barstow said, of the following out of this third an- swer would be the end of the great- est problems of the world today. The que~tion of economics, intPr- national hatred, racial differences, and political life would be cleansed and men and women would .find g1 eater spiritual sensitivene.ss. ----10---- Test Is Necessary For Entering Medical School All students preparing to enter a medical col.lege in 1934 are required to register at once with Dean Charles F. F. Garis in the Adminis- tration building for the Medical Ap- titude Test given by the Associa- tion of American Colleges. There is a fee of one dollar which must be paid at the time the examination is taken. The test will l;u;l given on December 6, but unless students make known immediately their in- tention to take these tests there may not be enough copie~ of the tests for them. FORTY TO MAKE TRIP Organization Will Aho;(} Make Appearance in Conjunction With Mountebanks Offering The Union College Glee Club will present the first public concert of its 1933-34 season in Kingston on the evening of November 17, ac- cording to a11 announcement made by James Horan, '34, manager of the Musical Clubs. The concert will take place under the auspices of the Young Men's Organization of the Fair Street Reformed Church, in Kingston. About forty men will make the trip. In addition to the numbers of- fered by the club, its director, Dr. Elmer A. Tid.marsh, will p1ay sev- eral groups on the organ. ·rhe solo- ist of the evening will be Raoul Nadeau, winner of the Atwater- Kent Radio Audition Contest. The songs which the club will present are divided into two groups. Those forming the first are a musical setting for Psalm 150, by Cesar Franck, \The Best of Rooms,\ Wood, \Laudamus and an old Welsh hymn, arranged by Burleigh. The second group will be headed by a marching song, \Why Don't You Try?\ ·by Pietro Yon, a seven- teenth centrury English air, \Pass- ing By,\ written by Purcell and arranged by Burliegh, and \Short- nin' Bread,\ arranged by Charles Wolfe. The \Dutchman's Song,\ by H. S. Knight, class of '17, will close the program. The organization will also make an appearance in conjunction with the Mountebanks produchon of \The Intruder,\ on November 11, in Hanna Hall. -~-01---- MRS. COFFIN CHAIRMAN Students to Have Opportunity To Acquire Books Cheaply For Their Own Collections The ladies of the Union College faculty have again issued an invi- tation to book lovers in Schenec- tady as well as those connected with the campus to contribute any prints, periodicals, phonograph rec- ords or books to the \bookstore\ the Faculty Women's Club will con- duct from November 28 to Decem- ber 3 in Silliman Hall, for the benefit of the student loan fund of the college. .Mrs. John N. Vedder, president of the Faculty Women's Club has ap- pointed Mrs. Harrison C. Coffin chairman of the committee that will collect and sel'l the books to obtain funds with which to help keep in college some of the under- graduates who otherwise would be unable to stay because of financial difficulties. Mrs. Coffin Names Assistants Mrs. Coffin has asked the follow- ing wives of the Union faculty to aid her in this work: Mrs. Leonard B. Clark, Mrs. A. Gordon Dewey, Mrs. Edwin W. Hamlin, Mrs. Daniel T. Selko, Mrs. Philip Stan- ley and Mrs. Frank J. Studer. Anyone wishing to contribute books to the \Faculty Bookstore\ should telephone Mrs. Coffin at 4-2662 and someone will call for the books. They may be brought directly to Silliman Hall where they will be stored on the second floor. Silliman Hall will be open from 9:00 to 12:00 and from 1:30 to 5:00 o'clock every day except Sunday for this purpose. Flinn Asks For Power To Large Collection Desired · A b' \} It is hoped that a large collec- Table Motions r Itran y tion of books and interesting peri- . odicals will be obtained by the committee and the sale durin_g the At Student Body meeting yes- week of November 28-December 3 terday morning D:mi~l Flinn, '33, will result in a sum comparable chairman, asked for power to table to that netted last year when the motions a week for coru;;ideration. ladies of the Faculty sponsored a Such a rule, he explained, would lecture by Carvath Wells for the give everyone an opportunity to benefit of the Family Welfare learn more about a motion before Bureau of Schenectady. The Fac- voting upon it. ulty Women's Club also aided the Henry Gulnac, '33, read the new c0llege in arranging for the Fried- freshman· rules and the penalties erich 'Schorr concert the year be- for breaking them. Flinn announc- fore last when $1,000 was obtained ed that the Sophomore Discipline for the Student Loan fund. Committee would be appointed at Mrs. 8offin in her invitation to the next meeting of the Student book lovers or periodicals to the Council to enforce these rules. bookstore said that this plan may The atmosphere of the meeting solve the problem of what to do W11lS considerably saddened when with overbulging bookcases for the student body rose a.nd stood in those who have too many books, silence as a ma1k of res.pect for and solve the problem of how to Dr. Leonard Chester Jones. acquire books for a growing li- George Cory, '33, asked . that a,ll b.rary without too great an expen- comrnunications for the Concord!- diture for others. ensis be signed. He said that sev- Anyone having good books to era! letters of criticism. had not give to the bookstore for needy been published because the writers students is asked to notify Mrs. had failed to sign them. Coffin of this. Scientific Courses Were Placed In The College Curriculum By Dr. Nott By VEDDER M. GILBERT Passes Away Dr. Jones Is Buried Near Late Dr. Hale Students and Faculty Pay Final TJ:ibute to Man Wbo Had Many Friends Here The same simplicity with which the late Dr. Leonard Chester Jones, professor of history, conducted his life marked the funeral services yesterday afternoon in the Union Presbyterian Church on Park Ave- nue. Dr. Edward Ellery, acting presi- dent, and Dr. Thomas R. Good, pa:;tot· of the chutch, conducted the :;imple :;ervice that was attended by members of the college faculty, students, and the many friends Dr. Jones had in the city. No eulogy was pronounced, the service con- sisting merely of the reading from the Scriptures, a prayer, the read- ing of a psalm and several hymns. Frasca Reads Psalm The Rev. Mr .. Michele Frasca of the Italian Presbyterian Mission read the psalm, for Dr. Jones had· taken active interest in {his mis- sion. Members of the Kappa Alpha. Fraternity, of which Dr. Joues was a member, were the bearers .. They were Donald Mackensie, Richard Chase, Robert Kennedy, Tiffruay Lawyer, Harrison Sayre a11d ;Eqwin Hutchins. Two other members of Kappa Alpha, Charles Bridgeman and' Gilbert Betts sang in the col- lege choir. Honorary Bearers The honorary bearers were mem- bers of the Session of the Church, of which Dr. Jones had been an elder for ten years, and the follow- ing members of the Union faculty: H. Laurence Achilles, Dr. Ernst J. Berg, Frederick L. B!'onner, Rob- ert W. Crowell, Dr. Joseph D. Doty, Dean Charles F. F. Garis, Anthony deH. Hoadley, Dr. George Dwight \Governor Cross: On behalf of the. 135 sons of Union who are now resident in your commonwealth and in partial return for C~m~ecti­ cut's gift to Union College, 1t IS my distinguished privilege to present t(} you and through you to Co~­ necticut this Memorial erected m commemoration of a man and a work. In this act we dedicate Union College anew to the advance- ment of youth.\ Dean Garis called attention of all applicants to the fact that the test is now one of the normal require- ments for admission to a medical school, and that if they pla.n to enter a medical school in 1934 they should arrange to take the test ln December. It is not necessary that all premedical requirements be com- pleted at the time the test is taken, if the requirements will be com- pleted in time for entrance to a At the beginning of the nineteen- medical school in 1934. Last year the tests were taken by th century Dr. Eliphalet Nott, w'hen mind, Nor was his work tsat of a Kellogg, Dr. John L. March, Dr. rabid creator who never considers Philip Mosley, Dr. Anthony J. Pa- lermo, Mortimer F. Sayre, Henry Alumni Retm·n to Attend Delta Pi Nu Anniversat·y Thirteen alumni attended the lOth anniversary of the Delta Pi Nu fra- ternity held at the chapter house -last Saturday. Four charter memb- ers including Rev. George H. Kling '24, St. Johnsville, first president; Dr. Ranald E. Mussey '26 Cohoes; William G. Bradshaw '26, New York City; Edward J. Leifheit '26, Long Island, returned to attend the con- vention. The other charter members were unable to return for the anniversary. After attending the Swarthmore game Saturday afternoon in a body the alumni and active chapter en- joyed a banquet followed by a model initiation. 9,131 students of 546 colleges, and he introduced scientific subjects were used by approximately 90 per Into the academic course, inaugu!'- r.ent of the approved medical 1 f h 1 t• schools of the United Sta:tes as a. att!d a new p an o se o as 1c cur- factor in the oelection of their riculum. His plan met -with stren- students. According to the medi- uous opposition from his associates cal schools, these tests have prov- and colleagues. They called hirn a ed very helpful. Thirty-one Union radical, yet within a few years the students took the test last year. majority of American colleges had The test will require approximate- accepted his ideas. ly one hour and a ha[f. Details of In the early part of the nineteen- the examination will be given the th· century the New World univer- applicants later from the Dean's sities used the English system of office. study. Americans still held the Eu- ropean notion of an educated man.; DAILY ASSEMBLY SJ?EAHE:R WNlnPsday --Acting President Dr. Edward Ellery. Thursday-Dr. W. L. Godshall. Friday-Dr. Elmer A. Tid- marsh; singing. Saturday-Frederic A. Wyatt, '32, \Hiking and Winter SpcH'ts.'' thSJt is, one who was well versed in . the ancient tongues, one who -wa.s trained in subtle I'easoning, and the correct use of rhetoric. Dr. Nott felt that \a college must have a wide curriculum,\ one that would bring \all kinds ~f men and minds\ to Union. Nott mtended to attract scholars through scientific courses. Dr. Nott was an invento.r. The United States Patent Offices show numerous records of his ingenious the sales value of his article. He A. Schauffler, Edward S. Q. Smith, built a practical stove in 1833 which Dr. Morton C. Stewart, John N. th c E T · Ch' Vedder, Charles N. Wa1dron, D. e olumbian xpost ton m l· Richard Weeks, and Dr. Peter I. cago considered worthy of exhibi- Wold. tion. Interment took place in the col- Since Dr. Nott was a contriver lege plot of the Vale cemetery near of new ideas it is little wonder that ·the late Dr. Edward Everett Hale he wa:s in sympathy with. the new one of his closest friends, who died spirit of scientific inquiry. Previous last year. to 1828 Nott began to instigate his ----o---- plans depending upon his own in- .fiuence and the mfluence of the in- dividual professors to awaken an interest in the natural sciences. Not satisfied with the results, he announced in '28 a ·new course to begin with the sophomore year. 'fhe subjects to be considered were natural history and philosophy. a>'· tronomy, chemistry, physiology, bot- any, and mineralogy. The educational world upon hear- ing of the electives Dr. Nott was about to offer his students agreed that the foundations of sound learning were being shaken down. Roberts. '34, to Read Paper at Opening Meeting of Hale Club The Hale Club will resume its ac- tivities for the comJng year when it holds its first meeting on No- vember i. The society will continue its policy of having a paper read by one of its members at each meeting. John Roberts, a senior who was elected to the Hale Club last year, is preparing an essay to be presented at the initial gather- ing. DECORATED IN BELGIUM Well Known in Local Histor- ical Groups; Late Professor Had an Interesting Career Dr. Leonard Chester Jones, pro- fesor of history died Saturday fol- lowing complications that set in a week earlier when he contracted a cold while working in his garden. He had been absent from the campus all last week. News of his sudden death was received as a \tremendous shock\ by Acting President Edward Ellery and Dr. Joseph D. Doty, chairman of the history department, as well as by the hundreds of students who knew Dr. Jones intimately. \Dr. Jones was one of the finest Christian gentlemen on the campus,\ said Dr. Ellery, adding, \the college will long suffer the loss of this man who was a great in- fluence in the lives of students.\ Dr. Doty declared that the death of his colleague \was a great personal loss and an irreparable one to the department, while the students have lost a sincere friend.\ Host to Students Since he came here in 1921, Dr. Jones was an increasingly impor- tant part of the pattern that is Union College. In a quiet way he influenced the lives of hundreds of students each year, for he invited to dinner at his home the students in his advanced and freshman classes, the entire chapter of the Kappa Alpha society, of which he was a member, and other students on the campus, as well as the group of freshmen to which he wa:s faculty advisor. He was one of the faculty mem- bers who was popular with the stu- ~ents in daily assembly, and when he appeared, he invariably conduct- ed a religious service. In many other ways, he was an intimate part of the life of the campus. He lectured under the Phi Beta ~ap­ pa series in 1922, prepared an in- teresting exhibit in the library of the Engineering Building, of th(' great cathedrals of the world. He read annually a humorous chroni- cle of the year's doings at the col- lege before the members of the English Club; he wa:s the faculty marshal for the academic proces- sions that opened and closed col- lege, and as the president of the Schenectady chapter of the Alli- ance Francaise, he arranged for an annual prize to be awarded to a Union student outstanding in French. Born in New York Dr. Jones was born in New York eity 47 years ago, the son of Dr. S. Beach and Gertrude Ralston <Cros- by) Jones·. He studied at Dr. Lyon's .private school before entering the Pomfret School, Pomfret. Conn. There he prepared for Princeton TJnivPro:ity: After hiR .grac'luatinn with: the Bachelor of Science de- gree from Princ-~ton in 1907, he be- came a surveyor in Vancouver, British Columbia, for a year. He became a landscape architect in Montreal, Canada, during the next year. He returned to an old love in 1908, when he went back to Prince- ton as a Fellow in History, receiv- ing his master's degree in 1909. He studied for another year under a fellowship and then went abroad to continue his research for two years at the University of Geneva. which a:warded him the Doctor of Literature degree in 1916. In Foundation Group He began his tea:ching career in 1912 as instructor of French and Latin at Harldoafleld High school, Haddonfield, N. J. Two years later he became a private tutor in Pasa- dena, Calif., for a year. He then went to Switzerland and soon be- came a member of the War Relief Commission of the Rockefeller Foundation. Decorated By King of Belgium It was for this important work in 1916-17 in Switzerla:nd, and for his subsequent work as a major in the American Red Cross for two :;rnrR in Brlgium. Franr\ nn.f! Switzerland, that the Belgian king decorated Dr. Jones with the rib- bon of a Chevalier de le Ordre de Ia Couronne. He married Yvonne Marguerite Jequier at Neuchatel, Switzerland, (Continued on Page 3)

Two Qlnnrllr ~itnsis \A Oawa Persa Parole .tlsscd\ FouNDED 1876 Affiliated With Pi Delta Epsilon ~.ssotinte~. !~r,9,iat\ ~r\sG - \: I 91 J (.f!A1_!0~iil!~!f.~_@ I 9 3 4 E ~ The official newS'paper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fridays throughout the college year, except during Christma:s and spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4--4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Address all business communications to Arthur J. Katzberg, Kap;pa Nu House, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. All other co.mmunications to George R. Cory, Jr., Psi Upsilon House, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD George R. Cory, Jr ..•...••...... Editor-in-Chief Arthur J. Katzberg ....•..... Business Manager C. William Huntley .•..•...••. Managing Editor Robert H. Smith ...••......•...... News Editor Arnold J. Friedman ......•...•... Sports Editor Prince E. Oleson ................ Feature Editor JUNIOR BOARD i C. Hathaway D. Moulton J. Woolman M. Berger R. Diamond Issue Editor .••.••.. Donald B. Moulton LEONARD CHESTER JONES Those o-f us who knew Dr. Leonard Chester Jones intimately feel that we have lost a true and valuable friend. Those of us who were not fmtunate enough to be well acquainted with him will, nevertheless, miss him. Dr. Jones had very definite ideas about the relationship b.etween a member of the faculty and his stu- dents. He made it a point to know all his students well, but what is more important, he had a deep interest in every one of them. Union College has lost an ideal Christian gentleman, a fine scholar, a true friend and 1·eal man with the passing of Leonard Chester Jones. ELEVATE THE CLASS OFFICE! That a more satisfactory form of class government could be adopted is without doubt; The Concordiensis has attacked the present method for several weeks in its .editorial columns and also has printed the opinions of more than a dozen students on this matter and is now prepared to submit a plan suitable for adoption in the near future. It is obvious that the senior class offices are necessary as is the Junior Prom commit- tee. As for the remaining class offices, in their present mode they a1·e empty honors. Let there be appointed by the Student Council a chairman of the freshman class about two or three months after the opening of the college year. In that space of time the talented man of the yearling class can he discovered and hence be put into office. Then, should the occasion arise for the class to convene, a worthy man will preside. His powers will be to call meetings of his class and to preside at those meetings. The sophomore and junior classes may elect chairmen of their respective cl~sses soon after the opening of the school yea1·, whose powers will be the same as the chair- man of the first-year men. In order that the whole responsibility of a class does not remain in the hands of one man, the mem- bers of each of the three lower classes who are on the Student Council could act in the capacity of an executive committee. This plan is suggested because it would insure each class of having its most capa:ble men on its executive committee. Why retain other offices when they are in reality but empty honors? Since there is hardly a necessity for a president, need there be a vice-president, whose only duty THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1933 in any form of gov.ernment is to act as pre- siding officer in the 2:bsence of the president? .I F A R R A G Q .. ·11 EASY 0 N THE EYES 111 As for the secretary, there is no record of _ =- any class now in cotleg.e ever keeping min- !.!;;;;============;;;;o;==========-lJ utes ·Of their meetings, and that, too, is a meaningless office. Since there is neither financial income nor financial disbursement by the three lower classes, the abolition of the treasurers is inevit3!bly in order. The only duty of the historian is to write a history of his class for The Garnet. This could probably be better accomplished if done by a member of the staff of that book. Several students have voiced the opinion that the prestige of holding a class office warrants their continuance. In answer to this it might be interesting to ask any fresh- man or sophomore to name the officers of his class; it is highly doubtful if many could. do it. The only possible excuse for the re- tention of class offices seems to be that there ought to be someone to eall the class to- gether. The plan outlined above adequately takes care of thjs need and' also elevates the significance of presiding officer of the class. NECESSARY POWERS Mr. Flinn's request 1n Student Body meet- ing yesterday for power to table a motion if he doesn't feel .that a motion has been thoroughly discussed should be granted at once. Such a step is not intended to give the president of the Student Body arbitrary powers, but rather to help th.e undergradu- ates get what they want; or at least, to have a voice in things that are going on about the campus. By delaying :1 vote for a week, a commit- tee can have time to submit a report, and the voters will know what they are voting about: something which they have not known in the past. To assure an unbiased report from an appointed committe-e, both a major- ity and a minority report should be request- ed on all important questions. Giving the president more power is one of the most essential reforms needed to bring our Student Body meetings up to a level where they mean something. :!in the past, as we have said before, a majority vote means very little, because tahe greater part of this majority care little o-r nothing about the is- sue involved. SUPPORT THE BOOKSALE! Every year a certain number of students enroll in college with insufficient means to last them through the term. Such a condi- tion prevails not only at Union College but elsewhere; each institution of higher !.earn- ing has its own methods of solving the prob- lem of giving needy students all the financial assistance possible. It is pleasant to note that a body, not di- rectly connected with Union, such as the Faculty Women's Club, takes a paramount interest in this worthy cause. The success of its booksaJ.e a year ago, which netted the student loan fund the sum of two hundred eighty dollars, warranted a repetition of the sale. But due recognition of the efforts ex- pended by those in charge is wholly in order and The Concol'diensis wishes to commend those ladies who devoted a large portion of their time last fall to the success of this ven- ture. Not only did these ladies spend a vast amount of time in collecting books and prints then, but they also went to a great deal of trouble to arrange for the recital which Friedrich Schorr, world famous bari.,tone, gave here two years ago for the benefit of the student loan fund, the proceeds of which amounted to one thousand dollars. Once again we find that the same group has arranged to hold a booksale for the stu- dents of Union College. It is, therefore, the duty of each and every student to cooperate with the committee in charge and lend sup- port by donating books, and prints and other articles which will be included in the sale. These Prophetic Penpsylvanians: a filthHy lucrative position, fiilan- Excerpts fwm the Haverfordian cial mentor of that \God-intoxicat-. ··000 Gentle Brother Leonardus of tHaveriord College): \The New ed\ tri:be; what more beyond, 0 the Chrh;tmas chronicle of the Hale Englanders (Wesleyan), in their Solomon'? But the mores are crumb- Club has left us. It sounds selfish ~eu.::;on·~ opener,, were held at a 7-7 ·ling all about us. Where is the to regret that >'ve shall never hear tie by a weak Union eleven, . \ heroic soul who used to exude this another of those inimitable pseudo- But wait until Quakery Haverford sentiment: \My fathm was .a Re- mediaeval manuscripts so un·fai:l- tw;:;les with the \Oberlandermen'' publican, my grandfather was a ingly unearthed each December, at 1 wow) --then we'll ta:lk. Late News Republican, my great-grandfather no one knows what cost in toil of !•'lash: Haverford 7, Wesleyan G. was a Republican; I've voted Re- composition, to supply the humor- * * * In the same Haverfordian, a business solicitation l\ad\ to thee and thy Unci~ Jonah): \You may be as handsome as John Barry- more, athletic as Douglas Fair- banks, and talk faster than Lee Tracy, but you'H still need a new Fall Suit from Reed's to be as popula:r as Micky Mouse!\ Even our gods are prostituted to unholy Mammonism. Is nothing sacred? * * * Refreshing, these young things who just don't give a damn. This one-my problem for the evening- won the iron mug going away. The S.cene: A semi-'respectable dining room in a semi-respectable hotel; some nine adolescents are c·hewing the table around a rag. Following a brief unexplained absence, the \problem\ trots up to the festive board and gurgles for the benefit of all: \Oh gee. What am I gonna do? I've gotta have a nickeL\ Is one born with it or can it be de- veloped? * * * Required Reading: \Lazarus by L. N. Andreyev in \Best Russian Short Stories\: Modern Library. Compare with O'Neill's treatment of same theme in \Lazarus Laughs.\ • * * Times News Index: \Nutt quits as Republican treasurer.\ Only a loon would do such a thing. Such Week's Best Editorial REl'EAL AND THE CAMPUS WHh the practically inevitable repeal of the eighteenth amend- ment looming up in the near future a:nd no longer disputed by the most ardent of drys, the old problem of administrational attitude is bound to make its reappearance on the Wesleyan campus. The matter has cooled somewhat since the Presi- dent's letter on 3.2 per cent beer, but the return of hard liquor may easily result in a: needless amount of discussion on the part of under- graduates, alumni and administra- tion officials which in the long run accomplishes nothing whatsoever. We fail to see why the liquor prob- lem should be regarded as a mat- ter of major importance when in reality it is a side issue in our country today. Granted that the re- peal of prohibition connot justly be overlooked. But we should like to see it disposed of as far as Wes- leyan is concerned in a reasona,ble, common-sense way with a mini- mum expenditure of time and en- ergy. As far as the administration is concerned, we wish to point out that the repeal of prohibition should actually have little effect on the undergraduate. He has come to realize more than ever the value of the dollar and his desire \to get his money's wo1 th\ from the op- portunities offered by Wesleyan is a prevalent one. The effect of these influences have been noticeable in the general scholarship of the col- lege during the past two years. On the whole. hard times have done much to temper the attitude of the undergraduate toward his oppor- tunities. Undoubtedly one reason for this is that he has not so much money to spend. and when liquor becomes legal, he will regard it as a luxury of the first order. The c-x- pense involved with heavy govern- ment and state taxes will in most ca:ses force the undergradu~te who wants a drink to continue to pat- ronize the bootlegger or to make his own. Another approach to the liquor problem may be made from the pomt of view of the fraternity. Na- tionally as well as locally, this in- stitution has functioned with defin- ite reg-ulations on drinking, most of which have been on the books so long that they have become obso- lete. vVesleyan fraternities are no exception; they have rules, and look upon them in various ways rang- ing from half-observance to com- p!Pte disregard. The reaction in many cases is justified because of the unreasonableness of the regu- lations themselves. A fraternity chaper seldom, if ever, comes to thP point of suspending a member for drinking, and cases calling ~or ~uc!1 drastic measures are certain- ly not frequent enough to warrant the existence of the rule. The return of hard liquor, finally, should result in a:n extremely lib- eral attitude toward 3.2 beer. It should be treated in the S!1-me cate- gory >vith coco-cola or lemonade both by the fraternities and by the administration, for it is cheap, easily obtaina,ble, and non-intoxicat- ing. We see no reason why beer should not be served and sold on the campus. As, for hard liqu~n·, there is no necessity for a defimte course of actio!l! on the part of the college, for l!epeal will certainly have little, if any effect on the average und.ergradua,te. --'WeSleyan Argus publican for forty-two and a half ous high-apot of the college year. years and I'm proud to cast my But the loss is real, and incalcul- ballot for the present standard- able, and ours as a col'lege com- bearer of the grand old party, that munity. Many men possess the tal- great-souled leader of men, George 2nt fo!' scholarship, but few com- O. Pastymouth.\ Ta Da! ~ine With it the gift of that cleans- * * * rng humor which has edge a,nd Wisdom of the Ages.: \Study point, yet is utterly lacking in ht spite and malice. Let others pay without thought is vain: thoug . the so-ca!Ied serious tributes. We without study is perilous.\-Con- are content to salute the pa:ssing ·Of fucius. * * * a noble wit: Falteringly we advance a lim- erick. by an unknown quantity named Arlo 'Bates: A prudish y0ung lady named Chaucer Said \Oh fie!\ and \For shame!\ and \Oh law sir!\ \Dividers have limbs Like indelicate hims, So circles I draw with a saucer.\ * * * Diplomatic opening to a letter we received the other day. Dear J, Being sick of studying, and having nothing else to do, I'll write you a letter. Very cheering, very cheering' But sort of tough on the ego, yes? * • * This column is an infantile ex- perimental stage, believe it or not. Any suggestions are sought with great glee; some of them might even be acted upon. J.P. R. \Farewell gentle, ther Leonardus.\ smiling Bro- 000 Each fall we marvel at the new crop of alleged educa;tion&l in- stitutions brought to our attention by the weekly football scores. Somebody, preferably Chase and Sanborn, ought to match those val- iant elevens listed in the papers as \Upsilanti Tea,\ and \Terre Haute ·Tea:.\ 000 Attention, Music Editor. It's really your job, and not ours, .to notify the public that St. Mary's of California has in its backfield both a Gilbert and a Sullivan. 000 This NRA business can be carried too far, it seems. Boston staged a six-da:y bike race last week with the riders circling the saucer only 12 hours a day instead of 24. Thought they could sell a 3- day race in 6 days, perhaps. Did the 6-day bugs bite? No, as A. Woolcott once said, they stayed away in droves! 000 The co-eds of Boston Univer- ·~-------------~ sity, tha:t once-very-Methodistical institution, are to be allowed to smoke in the gymnasium for three hours three days a week. Sounds like:: \Nicotine I, M.W.F. 11-2, Gymnasium,\ to us. 0 .u r Contemporaries Notes On C'o-rd.• Plan to Wo1·k •. Endou•- mrnts .• G11alemalan Foot- ball •• Tu.1·l'do~s fm· T1·ark .. Race Suicide .. Co-eds 000 Word eomeq by dog-team from Hollywood that the latest Mae West .. premeer\ was poorly attended by the other stars, who are jealous of her popularity. Th~y refusE', in other words, to c\mup'n'zee h·er some- time? 000 New York City mayora,lty ~--- -----------<® candidate McKee is a former teach- er of Latin, whose presence in the campaign leads us to inquire: \Me- Cui bono?\ Race Suicide'? In a survey at Hunter CollegE'. New York, it was found that of the 650 Freshman Co-eds, only one intends to marry after gradua- tion. The others ane planning to work. * * * Music Hath Charms . The Tulane Glee Club staged an informal football game in Guate- mala on a tour and now th'l na- tives. who ha:ve gone \Griddy\ have hired Bill Penny of Tulane to coach a team there. .. * * The five most heavily endowed universities in the United States are Harvard, Yale, Columbia, Chi- cago and the University of Roch- ester. .. * * Cosmopolitan A student at New Orleans Uni- versity received a medal from the Halian government for rescuing a Turk from drawing there two years ago. * * * Tuxedog are the latest style for track officials at Alleghany Col- lege. This custom was established last spring. .. .. * Overemphasis of Athletics? Students at the Cooper Tns.titt1h~ of Technology <New York) were unaware of the fact they had a football team until the football manag-er of another institution phoned to find out why the Cooper Union eleven didn't show up for the game. * * * Tom Gowdy, an lnterprid colored man, is keeper of the cadavers at the University of Alabama Medical School, a:nd it doesn't phase him a bit. ... . . \DPb\ Parties Harvard men who desire employ- ment are enrolled on a social reg- ifrter whose business it is to fur- nish male escorts for \deb\ parties. * • * Every male senior at the Uni- versity of California must under- go two we~ks of football training: one weelt m the line and one in the bac kfle !d. • • • Vermont University The local R. 0. T. C. will hold a mock court martial soon just for practice. ' • * * Agnes Seott College Excerpts from a student opinion column- We think tha:t the halls are too dark at night for safety We think that not bei~g allowed to wear riding pants to cla:ss is be- yond the pale. We. think that foggish ideas are plentiful here. -Associated Collegiate Press 000 The grid experts agree that the best backs of the year, Mont- gomery, Le Van, Rand, Curtin, are ~II small men. But, on that basis, what a back.field Union ought to be having! 000 The reigning king of the wise- cracks is now \Where's Elmer?\ But after watching the obstreper- ous Little Quakers on Saturday we'd make it \Where's Elme; Mater?\ IGNOTUS MUSIC by Rankine Hinman Thornton Whipple, '35, and Ed- gar Moulton, '37, who are playing the chimes in Memorial Chapel this year, have added a number of ar- rangements of college songs and hymns to the collection of music available for the Union set. As only two of the eleven French demi- bells which consfitute the set cor- respond to the black keys of the piano, transposition for them is re- stricted to those songs which have a range not exceeding one octave and which may be written in one of three keys. Dr. Alexandet• Richmond, Presi- dent-emeritus of Union College, had many songs arranged for the chimes, which he wa:s influential in procuring. Donald Nitchman, who played them wst year, added many more coll3ge and fraternity songs to the collection. so that, with the additions made this year, there is a latge variety of numbers &vail- able. The chimes, which were given th<> college in 1926 by the Class of 1922, are played by a set of hand levers placed in the cupola of the Chapel above the clock. Moulton plays them on Tuesday, Wednes- day a:nd Friday, and Whipple on Thursday, Saturday and Sunday. Fr?Uch Songs in Old ChapE'l Thursday evening- Mme. Castel- lanos Taggart delighted a small audience in the Old Chapel with a program of French, Spanish. and Creole songs, rendered in costume. In her lower registers Mme. Tag- art's voice was merely adequate, but the sparkling purity of her higher notes, and especially of her head tones, was an unusual tr.eat for her listeners; her manner was charming. Dr. Tidmarsh on Committee Dr. Tidmarsh was a member .of the committee which selected the repertoire for the current season of the Associated Glee Clubs of America. VVith him on this commit- tee were Charles F. Morse of De- troit and Dr. Thomson $tone, con- ductor of the famous Ha:ndel and Haydn .Society of B.oston. Mac~ Dowell's \From the Sea,\ which the Glee Club sang last SJlring with Mrs. Rosen. at the theremin, is among the eight numbers chosen. 1 I d I: '.11 '! ' 'til. i. D T in Cr St of m ca so sc w. se U: Ia gt er U: in gr A til

3- ,. aJ m st e- h- c- at re -~~ be ?\ er ly in is il- of a g- er er c~ is . •'JI THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1933 Three Dr. Jones' Death a Shock To Faculty and Students (Cont. from page 1) in 1918, while there with the Red Cross. Upon his retUl'n to the United States in 191!1, he joined the faculty of the history department at Dart- mouth College. Two years later, he came to Union as assistant profes- sor. In 1924 he was advanced to as- sociate professor a:nd in 1932 he was made professor. During his sabbatical leave of ab- sence in 1927-28, be lectured at the Uni.,.-ersity of Neuchatel, Switzer- land, which aj}pointed him its dele- gate in 1932 to the world confer- ence of universities at New Y.ork University.. Dr. Jones has spoken frequently in Schenectady before va>rious groups. He was president of the Alliance Francaise from its incep- tion in 1925 in this city until this fall, when he resigned to become president of the Fortnightly Club. He lectured before many local so- cieties including the Journal Club of Schenectady, the Parent-Teacher Association and the Business and Professional Women's Club. Emopean Lectures He gave a series of 15 lectures on European backgrounds as part of the Americanization work of the state department of educatien in the Schenectady High school. Dr. Jones made an impor;tant his- torical discovery while working in the Bodleian Library at Oxford in 1928, he found a pamphlet of 1608 which gave an account of the un- successful attempt in 1602 of Charles Emmanuel of Savoy to seize the City of Geneva. His ac- count was read before the Societe d'Eistoire at D' Archeologie de Gen- eve, to which he was subsequently elected, and published widely. The University of Neuchatel also pub- lished his \Arnold Guyot et Prince- ton,\ and other pamphlets, includ- ing \The Neuchatel Group of Sci- ALWAYS thejinest to6accos. ence in. the United States,\ of his were published by the Geneca soci- ety. In 1931, Dr. Jones tDok part in a Fllench play, \Le Voyage de Mon- sieur Perrichon\ which was pre- sented at the Civic Playhouse under the auspiGes of the Alliance Fran- caise. He also had a leading role in \The Women Have Their Way,\ a regular production of the Civic Players in. 1932. Last April he en- acted one of the principal roles in \Le Mllnde ou !'on S'ennuie,\ which the Alliance Francaise presented. :Made Church Elder Professor Jones was actively in- terested in religious work. His many years labor was rewarded last June when he was elected a ruling elder in the Union Presby- terian Church and last winter he was one of the lecturers in the Schenectady sub-district Epworth League sessions, speaking on Re- farmation Leaders. Dr. Jones was a:lso intensely in- terested in gardening, his special hobby. He made a comprehensive The ALWAYS thefinest~tpo1-hmanshp survey of lilies which will thrive in I I Plans for Current year northern New York climate. In addition to the societies a!- , ___ N_o_r_,_c_E_s __ ..~ Outlined by the y Cabinet ready mentioned. Dr. Jones was a __ _ member of Phi Beta Kappa; Sec- tion de Genieve de !a Society de Zofingue; Schenectady Historical The German Club wlll meet in Somety; American History AssoCJa- Silliman Hall tonight at 8:00. At the weekly meeting, held last Wednesday evening in Silliman Hall, the Y Cabinet eleeted Gerard Neumann '36, Phi Sigma Ka,ppa, secretary for the coming year to fill the vacancy by the recent resig- nation of Frederick Knauu '35. tion; Association of American Uni- versity Professors; Hale Club; Uni- versity Club of New York; and the The French Club will meet this Murray Bay Golf Club, Point a Pic, evenmg at 8.00 in Silliman Hall. P. Q. He is survived by his wife, a daughter, Mary Crosby, 13; a son, S. Beach, 12; and two brothers, P.aul T. Jon0s, civil engineer of New York, and Edward C. Jones, elec- trical engineer of East Orange, N.J. ---0,--- Instrumental Club There will be a meeting of the Radio Club at 3:30 on Friday af- ternoon in Room 22 of the Electri- cal Engineering Building. The Journalism class will meet in Mr. Milton Enzer's ofFice in Silli- The regular rehearsal of the In- man Hall at 7 :SO tonight. strumental Club w1ll be held to- After the election the cabinet was addressed by Professors Ligon and Achilles who suggested that the Cabinet ascertain by means of a questionaire what things the stu- dents desire the Y to do and, also, how much support they would be willing to give. A committee, head- ed by Professor Ligon, was then appomted to make up a suitable questionaire. The Crubinet pla:ns to have dis- cussions on various questions led by members of the faculty. Several questions w:ere submitted and dur- ing the coming year these w1ll be discussed. morrow night in Silliman Hall at 7:30. Members of the band and others who play instruments are invited to attend. The American Society of Civil Engineers will meet tonight. A trip will be made to the new city hall. of a The finest tobaccos -only the center lea·ves The very heart of Lucky Strike's fine quality is choice tobaccos- ripened by warm sunshine, rich soils and gentle rains. Right now, up to $100,000,000 worth of fine Turkish and Domestic tobaccos, the Cream of the Crop, are aging and mellowing for the makers of Lucky Strikes. For only a special selection of choice tobaccos is used in making your Luckies so round, so firm and fully packed-free from loose ends. The reason why Luclcies are always the same in mildness, smoothness, in G.elicious taste. ,,0 ] \l'J 1t\s toasteo. FOR THROAT PROTECTION-FOR BETTER TASTE ALWAYS£uchies please!

Four THE OONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, 0 1 CT0BER24, 19-33 .. S th E .1 D f t 'F hm' Eleve'n' 1\,I'I\d·d:lebur· y Loses Gregory, Union ............. 29:23 House and the heating plant? war · ffi ore as I y , . e ea S: feS , ' Rll . , • . • . lfJ. , •· IJ • • . • : ~f~~~~s~{J~:;~u.r~.::::::::: :~~;~~ f~e~~::: ,ti~:e~~ 1 f::a~:! 0 ~t~f~n~ Defeats Manlius To Union Harrters Tilford, Middlebury ........ 3:1!:24 • Field and toward Jackson's Gar- Listless Union Team, 6 to 0: , --·- · · . . . . .. · .• R 11 .oss, union ................ 31 = 25 11 ::!~ri:~tthtofb~te:~i~~~~~~pa;~~1 ----·~- • , Pass fl'Om Hughes to Li:ffiton Gottschalk, Gamet Runner, IN THE MAIL · refer our Random Observer to the Fighting Quaker Outfit, Led by Captam Kelly and,·. 1 ·n F 10 · .,, 1 'MI'nu.tes .of Gam· e. Crosses Finish Line in Fast archives of the college,. where he u may find copies of the original On, Completely Outplays Union Eleven to Win; Gives Union 6 to 0 Vict01·y: Time in 19 to 36 Victory Edit 01 ,, The concordiensis: ~o~ds c~ait:rd ~~~~~!~d a~ t~~rt~~; By Lone Touchdawn Scol·ed in Third Quader' --- In the last issue Mr. Markham discover that they were granted on stated, tha,t if he had had his way the ninety-nine year renewable , A stout-hearted Manlius school, The cross country team captured . he would order aH the fraternities I ease plans which cannot be broken. : eleven staved off defeat for three its third vidory of the seasen Sat- that have their houses on the As for the statement that the By A Staff Reporter ! and a half quarte~s Saturday at, urday afternoon when Union de- campus to move off, making room. fra;ternities would die a slow death . . . . d t. .:1 f t Kallet field, Manlms, 'but finally, feated Middlebury 19-36 over the f 11 b 'ld\ 0 b t t d t h k \th e · A spu·Itless .UniOn varsity eleven went own o ue ea on, succumbed to a fighting. Union· 4 ., . .~_.-Inl.le AI·exander course. Bob or new co· ege · ru mgs. · ur o -· ha waul no s oc e s nsl- server further states, that it was tive alumni\ the mere .statement Alexander Field Saturday IosinO' to a fighting Swarthmore. Freshmaz:. team, 6 to 0 · Wtth only Gottsc~alk, _the first .man to cross .an imposition for certain f.raterni- is a foibl'e in his argument, and is ' 0 , a few mmutes left to play, Wally, the fimsh lme was t1med in 27:01, ties to even exist on choice Ioca- too far-fetched for refutation. College team, 6 to 0. The Union team was unable to match: Hu.ghes tossed a forward pass. to: the fastest time recorded on 'the tions ·on the campus, and that any'· RALPH MacALLESTER, JR. . . K ll d O h , Phtl Englehardt over the goal lme comse this year, b . ld h t b the dr1vmg power of the Quaker backs, e. Y anT·h· rr.' .wt · o for the lone touchdown. · The race woo close as .fax· as the new uildmgs wou · ave · 0 ' ed,. !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!U!m::m:::::m::m::m::mmmmm:mm ~ under prese:r.t conditions, place ; m m rippea the home line wide open time after time. · e VlSl ors Three times Union was at the two mile mark, when ·several Mid- in the .pasture or in the woods ·by. m UNION ALUMNUS siX FEET m • J . t t f th d last step of the stairway leading dlebury men dropped behind. The Lenox Road. iii '!'ALL WISHES TO SELL $!l50, 5ii . OUtplayed the Garnet lD every epar men 0 e game an to a touchdown, and three times first five Union men showed good Perhaps Mr. Ma.rkham has not m RACCOON COAT FOR ,$100, · · · !!i their vic.tOl'Y was well earned. the Manlius stalwarts tumbled the .balanc? throughout the race. Only bt een at~ Union College blolngbe~lod~gh m £?·A'tJ.N JU~glj1~LEWhf:Mci iii , Frosh back to the bottom of the one Middlebury man, Sears, placed f! no. we any favora e u.t. mg m TO· SJ<:ND COAT TO SCHE· :;: Union had no offensive drive until~ flight, but on the fowth attempt in the first six. Sites m central campus positions, m N.ECl'ADY FOR INSPEC'riON m the final period when Ro- til the last quarter consisted of Union took to the air after three With an undefeated team, Un- other tha·n those occupied by the m Br:FORE RECEIPT OF ANY iii ~unda was sent plunges which fajfed to gain yard- plays had failed to score froin the. ion's prospects for the rest of the fraternities. I never saw the campus m l\IONEY. m mto the game. age. C:brysler carne<;~- the burden of one-yard line and the pass was cross country season look bright. before September of this year, yet m m Rotunda was the plungmg and had httle success. good. Next .Saturday the Dutchmen will in the short time that I have been m A. Y. TAYLOR, m only ~~a~geclad Rotunda Adds Life to Team Cadets Rally at End run against R. P. I. on the Alex- here, I have noticed several possi- m 193 I s Street m mabalne to am awk~ The. Cadets made a stirring rally ander course. . ble locations. There is the site now m m The scrappy playing of Rotunda Th d f fi h occupied by the Old Gymnasium m Wash'•ngton, •D. c. m runs of more. seemed to give the appearance of in the few remaining minutes of e or er 0 ms : Dormitory. There we have ample m than 10 yards. a man coming in to play with a the game. Thrice Anderson hurled Gottschalk, Union · · · · · · · · · .27:01 ·space for a large modern .building., CALL SCHENECTADY- 4•8821 iii 'rhe Union team listless team that cared little wheth- passes, but thrice the passes were Sears, Middlebucy .. · ..... · · .27:07.8 Again, what is the matter with the ::: was outfitted in er it scored or not. Rotunda's ap- g.rounded. Liff.iton and Englebardt Mirate, Union . · · · · · ..... · · .27:13 space between the Psi Upsilon ' !!!!!!!i!i!ii!!!i!!!mil!!i!.!!!!!!i!!!!i!i!::i!!!ii:ii!iii!ii: orange jerseys pearance on the field also gave new were the chief ground-gainers for Nestle, Union ............... 27:25 because Swarthc spirit to Red Burton. The only oth- Union and between them they rang .Kazmierczak, Union ........ 27:29 more's color is er Union man that showed any up 14 first downs to Manlius' four. Bastedo, Union ....•........ 27:38 Garnet, the same fight was Captain Austin Fox, who The game was featured by a 65- White, Middlebury .......... 27:44 as the Dutch- all through the game kept urging yard run by Captain Brown of the North, Union ............... 27:59 man's. The near- . his charges to get into the !ray Frosh in the fourth period from Meecharn, Middlebury ...... 28;04.8 est Union got to and stop the Swarthmore backs,, his own 25-yard stripe to the Man- Neuman., Union ............. 28:16.8 the Swarthmore who each time they went through !ius 10-yard line where he was Brockwehl, Union .......... 28:38 THE CAZETTE PRINTERS PRESS goal line was the J. Rotunda the line carried the Union tacklers caught from behind. Seymour, Middlebury ....... 28:46 U ~~l~e ~~ R~=~~d =theirbHb~i~~e~du~ ~K~e~r~n~,~U~n~io~l~i~·~·~·~··~·~·~·~·~··~·~·~·~··~2~8~:5~0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ earried H. able to tackle a man and bring him The summary follows: ~ Or:t• Scores Touchdown down. Pos. MANLIUS UNION '37 Swarthmore's lone touchdown l'u~. ::5\\'Ain'IDIUHJ.:: L':-.:10\\ LE l>anahv .............. Sloatmnn came in the third period on a 44 1.11 .McCormack . . . . . . . . . . . . . Parker LT Cleghoi·n · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Gatchell yard drive after It had. lost a chance Ill' 'l'um~r ................ ur~e111Jurg· LG Miller .. · · · · · · · · · ·· · ·· · · · · Potts t · th d t h n LU Bright ..................... Little C Taint or ................. Barton o score 1n e sec on quar er, w e c ::;. Clemeut ................. l<'ux It(} Howe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Fagan after they had advanced the ball to HG Browniug ............... :\loulton nT J.'reihofer . . . . . . . . . . . . Campbell Union's one foot line, Union recov- ItT Prest .. .. . .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. . I<'meh HI~ Birge .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. . . .. Doyle ered after a bad pass from Clem- HB Yuung ..................... Krull QB Freeman ............... Hughe\ ents, Quaker center. Orr, speedy I,JB Kelly · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Semeratl LH Saladino ............... Liffiton Swarthmore back, scored for the L' 11 H AIJrams · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Burton RH Hoffman· ............ EnglBebardt h h \ Us!Journ ................ Acheson H.B 1\i~Clure rown touchdown on a plunge t roug FB On· ................... Chrysler \ ... ·· .... · .. · .. right tackle from the 1 yard line. Score by periods : Turner's kick for point failed. SWARTHliORE ............ o O 6 0-6 Swarthmore totaled ~46 yards by {'SIOX .................... 0 O O 0-0 :\TANLil'S ............ o O-O rushing whtle Unwn gained only Tuuchdo\lu-Swarthmore: Orr. ::iuu-' U:SION '3i' ... , ....... 0 6-6 130. Swarthmore made 12 first stitutions-I.Jnion: DILallo for Burton, Touchrlowns-Engleharclt. Suhstitu- L'rane for :\loultou, Agius fur Green- lions-Manlius, Anderson for McClure, downs, while Union made 5, all of hurg, ·waldron for Krull. Dain for Di- \\'ard for Hoffman. Sutter for Taintor. them coming in the last quarter on Lallo, Stevenson for l'arl<er, Lambeth ·rr· I-I 1 11 runs by Rotunda and Burton. The for Agiu:>, Hoi undu fol' l:lemerad, Ken- l'nion, MrCurraY 1 fofr Let ltonb, 11 aps te AUCHENPAUGH'S A PLACE TO MEET BRASS RAIL ' A PLACE TO EAT STEAMED CLAMS 25c HOT BUTTER SAUCE 8 STATE STREET PHONE 2-6135 h drick for 1Valdron; Swarthmore: Post for Hughes, Ang es or' amp e • ay- forward passing attack of bot for !'rest. Offi<'ial;;-H.eferee: K. Yen- ton for Fagan, Fenton for Potts, Me- teams was useless. Swarthmore der \'eer. ::-;yrat•use; um 11 ire. A. \V. Ris- Leod for. Doyle. Offlcials;-Referee, tried 5 passes while Union tried 4, ley. Colgate: hend linesman·, w. Smith, Hall; Umpire, Sheelv:. Headl!nes;nan- but neither team completed ~y. Syra.u~e Tin~ vf b•~vJ~ ~~-~·~u~J~u~ufk~~~ .• ~c~·~et~t~m~a~n~.~T~i~n~l~~u~f~~~e~ri~o!ds~-~l~~n~>t~nu~t~•~a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Six Quaker· fumble:; at. c1 ucial mo- • --- -·· ·-· ·--· _:. • ments of the game cost them the benefits of a greater victory. The one touchdown margin is insuffici- ent to show the superiority of the Pennsylvania team in Saturday's game. Kelly Outgenerals Union The first quarter of the game was a punting affair, with Orr, kicking with 'his left leg, averaging about 45 yards a punt. DW'ing this quarter Captain Jim Kelly, all-Am- erican mention last year displayed a fine command of generalship on the gridiron. His choice of p,lays at opportune moments completely baffled Union's defense. Double re- verses and fake forward passes showed Union's inability to cope with this style of play. McCor- mack, Swarthmore end, was lar- gely responsible for the success of his team with the fake pass. Each time they tried the play McCor- mack drew Union entirely away from Kelly, who then ripped off long gains. The second quarter was the start of the Swarthmore drive, but Union was fortunate in that mis- plays by the visitors prevented their scoring during this period. Union was unable to stop the Quaker plays in either the third or fourth quarter·s, a fact which spurted the Penn outfit on to great- er playing. Union's offensive up un- THE BEACON GRILL Serving Delicious Sandwiches Fried Oysters and Clams On the Half Shell 756 ALBANY STREET \On the Crest of the Hill\ Enjoy Yourself at RICHARDS Among Intimate Surroundings BILUARDS and BOWUNG 506 State Street The HAWTHORNE CLUB SANDWICHES and COLD DRINKS 216 Lafayette Street @ 1933, lrGGniT & MYERS TOBACCO Co, __ at you -want ran • • In your p1pe a sensible package 10 cents ••• is tobacco that's made to smoke in a pipe. This means the right kind of leaf tobacco-the kind that grows for pipes. It means that it's made right ••• and old man Wellman, who taught us how to make Granger, knew how. It means that it's cut right. Just pack Granger good and tight in your pipe and strike a match. Folks seem to like it. -the tobacco that's MADE FOR PIPES . '· \' ( ' ' - ( ' l Vc G ~ T F1 mE sti gri C01 of gil :1:0( di! va ra1 ga stc ~e: on an ur in1 sh ffil ag :NI to th bu bu st1 su Bi ne w M in co lru 4.( a~ to io K cc B: fr nl H til te st hi m hi al fr R eJ gi It tc fr E II st ti el P' E b tl k \ r 'I a c g 11 E c '\1 f• v '\1 a 0 f a c a

';' ( . U . PI·· R! · P I . '33d' G· .d. c·I . nton • ays · ... •. tn .. · · ·. r1 ·Iron . ··asstc Rensselaer, Welcome to UnioH College for the Traditional Games Vol. LVII, No. 11 Garnet Meets Three Rensselaer Teams Today On Campus Freshmen Football Teams of the Two Rival Schools Clash Before Big Varsity Game l'NlON HARRIER~ STRONG Union Cross Country Team Hopes to Defeat R. P. I. Har- riers to Remain Undefeated .. Today on Alexander Field Union meets Rensselaer Polytechnic In- stitute in three contests, two on the gridiron and one on the cross country tzail. The freshman teams of the two schooh:> will meet on the gridiron at 12:30 while the varsity tootball teams will clash imme- diately after the frosh game. The varsity cross country teams will race during the half of the varsity game. Cross Country Meet The Union tPam ha..c; improved steadily since the beginning of the :::;eason. There was a diffeTence of only 37 seconds between the first and fifth Garnet runners last Sat- urday against Middlebury, a fact indicating better balance than was shown by last year's team. The Engineers won their first. meet against C. C. N.Y. two weeks ago with a score of 20 to 35. The :New Yorkers, however, have a no- toriously weak team. Union, on the other hand, defeated Middle- bury by the same score. Middle- bury is reputed to be one of the stronger teams of the east. R. P. I. Has Veterans The Troy team is composed of such veterans as Rogers, Wilbur, Breen, Barker, Bradley, and three new men, Mikesh, Getter, and w.ebster. In a recent time trial Mikesh covered the R. P. I. course in 26:35. Union captured the re- cord for this course from Syracuse last year when Holleran ran the 4.6 miles in 24:56. Since Gottschalk took first place against Middlebury, it is difficult to prophesy who will lead the Un- ion team tWs afternoon. Nestle, Kaz;mierczalt and Mirate should cover the course at a fast clip. Brockwehl, who was suffering from a severe cold last week, is now in better running condition. Having cut over a minute off his time in the Middlebury meet, Bas- tedo is expected to make a good showing. North has also improved his time for the course, and Neu- man seems at last to have found his stride. Frosh Team Str()ng . With hopes of an undefeated and unscored upon season, the freshman football team meets the R. P. I. frosh today in their final en,counter of the year. The yearlings have played two games with an uncrossed goal line. In the first game they were held to a scoreless tie by the Middlebury fresh. Last week, on a pass from Hughes to Englehardt, In the final minutes of play, they defeated a strong Manlius School tea=, 6 to 0. Nitchrnan Starting Same 'l'eam Coach Nitchman is starting prac- tically the same team that defeat- ed Manlius last Saturday. One im- portant change has . been made, Haskell, the second string quarter back, being switched to the first team in the place of Hughes. Has- kell's performance in practice this week, especially in passing and running accounts for the change. The team will lineup with Doyle and Sloatman, ends; Gatchell and Campbell, tackles; Potts and Far gan, guards; Barton, center; Has- kell, Liffiton, Englehardt and Brown, backs. Although this is the opening en- counter for the Trojan frosh their weight should be a factor in their favor. Three men ou the team weigh over 190 and the average weight of the team is betweeu 175 and 180 pounds. The team consists of Gilcoyne and Smith, ends; Naf- fet and Sturges, tackles; Dooley and Farringtone, guards; MeyeTs, c·enter; Roberts, Kauffman, Becker and Jones, backs. UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., SA'I1URDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1933 How Union May Line Up Against R. P. I. UNION LINE-UP LE LT LG 67 17 37 t.Stevenson, '36 tGreenberg, '36 tLittle, '36 RE 12 RT 32 RG 48 ~Parker, '34 Dyal, '36 ~Moulton, '35 c 72 ~semerad, '35 Rotunda, '35 ¥Captain Fox QB LH 34 14 RH 3 tDiLallo, '36 FB 39 tMilano, '36 Statistics on Union Squad No. Name 2 Connelly, Frank X., '35 3 tDiLallo, Chester A., '36 6 McNab, Duncan S., 35 7 tKrull, Charles M., '36 8 tWoodruff, Richard L., '36 11 tWaldron, Van Antwerp, '36 12 *Parker, Harry B., '34 14 Rotunda, James, '35 15 tirvine, W. Stuart, '36 16 Kearns, John F., '36 17 tGreenberg, Arthur R., '36 18 Guthinger, George F., '36 19 Crane, Reynolds M:., '35 20 *Kendriclt, Rodger A., '35 23 Kuttle-r, John J., '35 25 Smith, Clement A., '34 26 Burton, Emery, '36 27 tGulnac, Henry P., '34 32 Dyal, Le Roy, '36 34 •semerad, Ralph p., '36 36 *Chrysler, Harry J., '34 37 tLittle, PhiU!l. III, '36 39 tMilano, Joseph E., '36 41 Hutton, Edward M., '34 43 Bullard, Arthur A., '36 47 Grieco, John, '36 48 •:Moulton, Donald B., '35 52 Coppola, Anthony, '36 56 *Finch, John E., '35 57 · Duchscherer, Henry, '36 63 *Dain, Charles L., '35 67 tStevenson, Albert H., '36 68 Emerson, George F., '34 69 tLambeth, William D., '36 Pos. HB HB HB RE QB LE RE HB LE LG LT RT LG RE c LE E RT RT QB FB RG FB HB LT LG RG LG RT,C HB QB LE HB LT 70 *Acheson, Thomas T., '34 72 *Fox, Austin M., '35 (captain) 74 *Agius, Joseph V., '35 FB c LT c 78 tMarotta., James V., '36 Wt. Ht. Home Town 151 5'8\ Rochester 151 5'7\ Schenectady 153 6' Schenectady 162 5'11\ Lynbrook 135 5'8\ Rome 158 6'2\ Schenectady 163 6'1\ Schenectady 144 6'6\ Schenectady 146 5'10\ Hillsdale, N. J. 160 6'10.\ Fonda 173 6'8\ Bennington, Vt. 171 5'11\ Schenectady 152 5'10\ Plainfield, N. J. 158 6'¥..\ Easthampton, Mass. 169 6'9\ Schenectady 167 6' Schenectady 155 5'8\ Albany 178 6'1¥..\ Bangor, Maine 170 6'1¥..\ Glen Ridge, N. J. 160 6'9\ Schenectady 160 5'10¥..\ Schenectady 167 6'10\ Minneapolis, M'inn. 176 6'1\ Schenectady 135 5'5\ Troy 183 5'9\ Stormville 146 6'7\ Albany 167 6' Schenectady 165 5'8\ Schenectady 163 5'11\ Whitehall 150 5'7\ Kenmore 144 5'8\ Oswego 150 5'9\ Brooklyn 145 5'6\ Scotia 195 6'11\ Schenectady 156 5'10\ Albany 170 6'1¥..\ Buffalo 176 6'11\ SchenectJady 148 6'10\ Scotia G. El.L/0/T 1-/t:ITI=l£'1..0 /)NION FOOTBALL CORCH Hatfield's Record at Union 1!l31-Won 5, Lost 2, Tit>d 2 1932-Won 5, Lost 2 1933-Won 1, Lost 2, Tied 1 RENSSELAER LINE-UP LE 11 t.Wunnenberg, '34 RE 17 *Schwarting, '35 LT 5 :!:Parry, 35 RT 18 ~KoJeszar, '34 LG 7 ~Fiori, '35 RG 20 ~Harr.er, '34 .C 6 +Quinn, '35 QB 24~Meyer, '34 RH 15 Rennie, '35 LH 1 ~suk, '34 FB 22 +Sawyer, '35 Statistics on Rensselaer No. Name Pos. \Vt. Ht. Home Town 1 *Suk,. W. J., '34 HB 155 6'8\ W. Springfield, )\fass. 3 Ecl<ert, J., '36 RE 150 6' Great :-<eek,. L. I. 4 Van RensseLaer, F., '36 LE 149 5'8\ Morris, N. J. 5 :j:Parry, E. J., '35 LT 166 5'8\ Utica, N.Y. 6 :j:Quinn, G. A., '36 c 181 ''9\ Albany, N. Y. 7 *Fiori, A., '35 LG 181 5'10\ Clifton, N. J. 8 Fuller, 'L., '36 c 166 6' \Valtham, Mass. 9 :j:Conrad, J .. '36 FB 149 5'8\ Sturb-ridge, Mass. 10 Stenglein, A., '36 LG 160 5'7\ Rochester, N. Y. 11 :j:Wunnenberg, C., '34 LE 162 5'10\ Brooklyn, N. Y. 12 tMcKinley, D., '36 HB 152 5'10\ New York City 13 Clark, G., '35 HB 182 6' ~uskegp-n, Mich. 14 Worden, 0., '34 RT 17() 5'10\ Syracuse, N. Y. 15 Rennie, L., '35 HB 183 5'10:1: 1\U!.yville, N. Y. 16 Dyer, V., '34 HE 181 5'1()\ Slifton, N. J. 17 :j:Schwarting, '35 RE 153 5'10\ Lynbrook, N. Y. 18 *Koleszar, J ., '34 RT 185 5'1:1\ Wharton, N. J. 19 P•fau, F., '35 LE 176 6'2\ Y onlters. N. Y. 20 *Harrer, J., '34 RG 188 6'1\ Buffalo, :-<. Y. 21 :j:Ward, C., '35 HB 150 6' Rochester, N. Y. 22 :j:Sawyer, H., '35 FB 162 5'10\ Scotia, N. Y. 23 :j:Budrecki, J., '34 LT 184 5'9\ Linden, N. Y. 24 *Meyer, F. J., '34 (•Capt.) QB 187 6'2\ Newarl<, N, J. 25 :j:M.uessel, C., '36 RG 181 6' Pelham, :-<. Y, 26 :j:pugan, .J., '36 R.b: 158 5'W' Brooklyn, N·. Y. 28 Davey, J., '35 RG 163 5'10\ Prides Cross'g:, Mass. •won Varsity Letters ('Non Freshman :-Jumerals Coach Henry Kumpf; Assistant Coaches Paul Graham, Paul Escho.Jz. Captain Frank Meyer • 19.!2 varsitY letterman; :j: '32 aU a letterman; \Von Frosh 'numerals last year. Coach, G. Elliott Hatfield; eap-OO.in Austin M. Fox; Mana:ger, Carl C. John.S'on; Cheer Leader, Dan-iel F. Fldnn, II. ·-·_:_~_:_._'_·_~ ~ ~ I ~ TOT UNION I Umpire: R. E. Corser, Syracuse. Referee: W. E. Dunn. Linesman: R. Delahant, Wesleyan. Year 1R86 18R8 1839 18U2 1892 1R33 1R94 1895 1S98 1899 189!1 1900 1901 1901 1903 1904 1914 Place Albany Troy Here Troy Here Troy 'I' roy Here Troy Here Troy Here Troy Here Troy Here Troy THE UNION-R. P. I. SERIES Union 4 4 10 4 20 10 37 26 22 5 6 5 17 18 12 21 24 RPI l915 11 1916 5 1917 1918 0 1919 0 1924 4 1926 6 1926 0 1927 0 1928 0 1929 0 6 1no 0 1931 1931 ~ . 1932 Here Troy Here Troy Here Troy Here Troy Here Troy Here Troy Here Albany Troy 7 45 19 6 0 7 40 21 21 6 7 0 21 7 13 0 0 3 13 0 7 0 6 3 14 2 0 0 2 0 11 llnion won 24 games, lost 6, and o tied 3. R P. I. won 5 games, lost 0 24, and tied 3. Rensselaer Poly Scored Over C. C. N. Y. in Opener The R. P. I. football team opened its sea~on _by defeating City College of New York by an overwhelming score of 33 to 0, on October 7, the l;nstitute eleven outplaying the met- . ropolitan gridd~ars from start to fin- ~~ . In the game with St. Lawrence, on October 14, the Trojans bowed to the northern aggregation, 6 to 0. Both teams resorted to defensive football in the first half. Last week R, P. I. lost to Rochester; 14 to 6. CROSS COUNTRY RECORDS R. P. I. has had only one cross country meet t() date, that being against City College of New York, whom the Engineers de- feated 25 to 30. Union has won three meets this yea.r. They have one of the beist outfits in many years and look forward to an undefeated season. In their first meet they defeated Vermont, 19 to 36 at Vermont. Their second victory was scored over Williams by the score of 25 to 30, while last Sat- urday the Dutchrnen defeated Middlebury, a strong oul.flt, 19 to 36. This It a Special Issue for the Union-R. P. I. Game PRICE FIVE CENTS Dutchmen Combat Rensselaer Poly In 33rd Classic Trojans Stand a Good Chance To Down Hatfield's Eleven; Rotunda to Start in Game NEITHER TEAM STRONG Cherrymen Boast Quartet of Veteran Backs; Punts of Capt. Meyer Average 60 yds • This afternoon Union a:nd R. P. I. renew their grid rivalry which be- gan 48 years ago. The teams have played: 32 games in this series, Un- ion having won 24, R, P. I. 5, with 3 tied. R. P. I. has al-ways regard- t>d this as their most important . game and keen rivalry is shown between both schools. Both are an- xious to break into the winning column after unsuccessful starts this season. This year R. P. I. has an excell- ent chance of defeating Union. The Cherrymen, although winning only one game tWs season, have dropped two close contest to St. Lawrence a:nd Rochester. Captain Frank Meyer is a dependable quarterback whose kicks· average 60 yards. With him in the backfield are Rennie, Suk and Sawyer, three veterans of last year's squad. R. P. I. Has Strong Line On the ends- the Engineers will have Wunnenberg and: Schwarting. Wunnenberg is a sopho-more who starred last year on his freshman team, while Schwarting is a junior. Both men are a tower of strength for the line, and are able men to receive forward pa;sses from Suk and Sawyer. Parry and Koleszar are the tacldes. Kolesza:r is a sen- ior who has had three years of ex- perience. Parry is only a junior and already has showed his worth on the left side of the line. Fiori and Harrer, both veterans of last year are the R. P. I. guards. With Quinn at center the Troy boys have a multitude of strength in the center of the line. With tWs combination they are in a high pitch for today's game and hope to repulse the Garnet for their sixth victory since the series began. Union line Uncertain Union, on the other hand, has been experimenting with new line- ups in order to come out of their losing slump which now has be- Clime very sedolJl>, follow:i.ng the losses to Amherst and Swarthmore. Joe Milano, sophomore back from whom much was expected this year, and who has been out of the line- up with injuries, probably will start tWs afternoon. Semerad, cap- able Dutchman quarterback, al- though slightly injured, will again call the signals. DiLallo and Ro- tunda, two diminutive backs, prob- ably wtll be Coach Hatfield's choice to start today. Burton and Dain also will see plenty of service. Union's ends will be Parker and Stavenson. Parker earned his berth last week, while Stevenson will fill in f9r Krull who is out with injur- ies. Greenberg and Dyal, sopho- mores, will start in the tackle posi- tions, with Moulton and Little as guards. Moulton is the only man in the line with more than one ses:son's experi( nee, except for Cap- tain Austin Fox, capable center. These two men will be depended upon to carry the burden of the .line, as the inexperience of the other linesmen was showed up in the two previous games. In last week's game against Swarthmore Union failed to show any fight. They seemed to go through their plays as mere pup- pets. Their defeats have caused them to get into a different tem- perament for R. P. I. Each year this game is the most important to th~ local boys and if the Engineet·s are to be stopped the Dutchmen will have to develop a better brand of football than they have displayed . in the past two weeks. Knowing Union's wealmesses this year is reason for R. P. I. to show much more fight irt today's game.

Two THE CONCORDiiENSIS, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1933 COUNCIL PRESIDENT LACKS 'POWER The quick rnanne·r in which the Ath-letic RANDOM QBSERVAT'IQNS Board disposed of the fencing question at the By special meeting Wednesday evening is just @IlltfJ) l,'=l =W=ee=k'=s :;;;;Be=st;;;;;;;;;;;;;Ed=it==or=ia;;.;;;;;l ;;;;.:til \A Causa l'ersa Parole Assa-i\ Fm· .s m.n ll-'7-G another indication of how any governing Sidney David Markman Fi'atE'rnity spirit is a difficult tlung to tlerine and is ·better • ex- body in the college feeb about a vote in Stu- ------ ;.Jawed, }Jt:t haJJ~ .. 1..>;~-· !J<>intlng out d d d what it ought not to be. It should ent Bo y meeting-s. As has been state The United States is about-to en- emment amounting to about om nut bE.\ as 1 , the case among many before in these co-lumns, the sentimE'nts ex- t<>r into negotiations to arrange for numlt ed and ergnty-seven rnillion Htudents on this campu~. an all-ab- Affiliated With Pi Delta Epsilon ~ssociattd (!]olltgiate \Jrts~ -\' 19Ji ~A!!_Oft:t ~~~ T~~_J~~i> -193-4 ~- the otficial t·ecognition of Soviet liL•llaJ s us well a:; sume P 1 e-JL'V•·l u · Em· bi-ng i-nterest. In tact, it would pt·essed by the unde1·graduates h1 Student 1 '-us,;m. We are the only major lion uebu; ol the cza-r. w uen the be better tor many students if they .power i-n the world not to have a!·- · :::lov1etts -1 epudiated these d~bt~. that .llought of their fraternity houses Body meeting- mean nothing at the present .eady done ,;o. Since both countries aCl \,a; h-le -lu,;l straw WJI!( h ac . '~ buatdmg hull:<e~. as ha:; been The officia:l newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fridays throughout the college y~ar, eXcept during Christmas and spring recesses. t . are not members of the League of tually led to the policy of n•HH ecog- ;ugge;>ted, than as institutions 1-me. Nations the concilliation of these nitwn held by us. .but what ate w-hich endow them with unusual· so- No time cou-ld be wasted. to bring ~bout a two great powers is hailed as a these uebts compared to t!le detrts .·ml power and di~tinctiun. llJOVe which will shift the balance - Jwcd us by the other fore1gn pow There i,; nothing more lamentabl'e PubJ.ication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenecta:cly, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 change. The Student Council is Investigating- of power in international politics. Pr:s: r-tow that a!li our really big on thi:s campus than the ,;nobbish- th t f · . CI editors -have defaulted m theu d Entered at the Schenectady P-ost Off.lce as Second Class Mail Matter the matter now, and acti:on should not he long It is rather strange Q, -or s1x- ness of certain men an women • ·teen years the United States has payments, Russia's crime in not 'rlfiliated with certai-n socia<l groups. in coming. The president of the Council been officially oblivious to the fact !Jaying is not so great. fhey :>eem to think that lhet·e is I ld b d h 1 I that Russia even existed. This dis- Writers Hail MovE' 1ttached to the members of the neu- Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. S 10U e gra-nte t e powers to tao e a mo- 1 egar·d continued in spite of the fact Wliters in various paper.; in the twl group ,;ome sort of stigma tion if he deems it necessary, imrnediately. that trade was carried on between cuunt 1 y h<.~.ve hailed we move tu \\ hich shut,; them out from the se- lhe two countries. Exports from the ward recognition as a measure tu .lE:ct society which fraternities dam- When lHr. Flinn asked for these powers . U. S. to the U. S. S. R. gt·ew from i,;Uatantt>e tue !Jeace or tue world inatc. With incomparable conceit Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Address all business communications to Arthur J. Katzberg, Kappa Nu House; Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. All other communications to George R. Cory, Jr., Psi Upsilon House, Schenectady. l\Ionda\ mol'ninQ·, a motion should have been 'tl,~2u3r tao·nodr1eahhuanldfrerrutl· .'lahn'odnedleovlelanrsmrr:nl- And so it is, mote or less consi-der- they set up for themselves a cir- J ~ \ 111g tl1at both cuunt!ie,; me nul cum,;cribed social world in which made to the effect that they be granted right lion dollars in 1932 when, because of membets of the Le<J.gue of Nations. they arc represented a,; symbols of the depression, the total of U. S. L•el!nany ha,; ju,;t lert the League in perfection. then and there. The fact that it ·was not import in Rus,;ia amounted to a :oquotbble uver· a 1 llld cquallt:y. The,;e ,;nubs are overflowing w-ith shOVI!.S how wide awake the under!!'l'aduates ·twelve and a half million dollars. ,!apan 'Jert Ute League becal:lse s~re the fraternity spi-rit. Nine-tenths of ~ Li'kewise we imported from Russi-a ,e,ented the oppoSition to her pol- their conversations and thoughts are at these sessions. in peak years as much as twenty- ley m Manchulla. Hussia is hem- are associated with their respective SENIOR BOARD George R. Cory, Jr .............. Editor-in-Chief Arthur J. Katzberg .......... Business Manager C. Wllliam Huntley ........... Managing Edrtor t:ve miNion dollars worth of mostly met! in between these two perky groups. They attach undue impor As long as the present attitude exists, the taw and some manufactured prod- 1 , 11 <.! highly militaristic state:;. 11 tance to their affiliations and gloat :Student Body is going to have little or noth- l.'cts, until now during the present ,ver s11e needed a friend sne need~ over each petty victory which their ,;lump when the figures have drop- one now. Litvinov has spent a great house may reap in campus politics. . ing to say about affairs which concern it, but, ped to nine million dollars. deal of time in making non-aggre,;- They thrive on ugly rumDlll defam- Robert H. Smith .................. News Editor Arnold J. Friedman .............. Sports Editor Why have we not recognized Rus- ''!On t1 eaties with aU or Russia s im- ing their rival houses. Their cry is on the o-ther hand, if questions are consider- sia up to now? We are afraid of mediate western neighbors. With always a cheap and inane, \Rah ed in the l'iQ·ht way, student opinion as ex- ·communist propaganda. In the early Germany boHing over a bit ;:;he does J•ah, my fraternity.\ ,. ·:1920's there was a great RED not 1eel so secm·e. But \vitt thr It i,; about time that some of pressed by an undergraduate vote is a potent SCARE to which Lewis Allen in his ~oming 1 ecognition, she will be in a these ultra-fr·aternity-minded per Prince E. Oleson ................ Feature Editor JUNIOR BOARD C. Hathaway M. Berger Issue Editm· D. Moulton J. Woolman R. Diamond Clemens F. Hathaway weapon. TOO BAD ,Only Yesterda.y devotes a whole better positiOn to pa-y more atten- son:; beg-an to realize the illusions .chapter speaking with great journa- Lion to her boubles in the east with under which they art.:> labor in~ lese and glibness. w·e are just Japan. Hus,;ia has clearly indicated through their college careers. If about getting over our abhorrence that she wants peace. A war for they would learn to talie their fra- ·ror the Reilil. There must be some- ller at the ptesEmt moment woulll t£·1 nitie,; le,;s ~el'iously, they would :thing to Communism, we figure. ;;pell ruin. \ve have had enough ut bP rendering themselves a great r . Rugged indi-vidualism has not turn- ,,ars, and so our turning away from service. With ;;ome of these insuf- ,t seems a p1ty that there are no social ;t-d out so well. We just have not the arms quar-rel being indulged in f(•rable people, fratE>mity i\' the :;ole functions to speak of foHowinQ' the big·2.·est :f<ot around to having two cars in ·by the Ew upean nation;;, i~ only an rpher e in which their narrow ami R. P. I. AND SPORTSMANSHIP ~ ~ the garage. In fact we are quite i11dication of om· desit e like H.u .. - i'l eju~cetl mind:< rotatP. If tlwy Awa~· b:lck in 1886 Union pht~·ed its first hon1e game of the season, tonight. Of course lucky if we even own a garage to- trw's, to keep out of the continental would fully understand what an in- ~ \ · clay Thus we do not shudder so stew ~i'-\nificant part fr atemities play intercollegiate footba:ll game, and it played the present e~;mditions forbid many exp.endi- 'mu~h when we hear the awesome · Wall ~tret>tVisi<ms out><ide their four-year vacations tures on luxuries, but the cost of runninQ' an name of the Third International hf·re, they might p1 ofitably turn just one game that season. The oppenent was ~ pt·onounced. With trade open between the two tbeir thOllf.:hts and tall{ to sorne- d · •t t countries. Wall Street is beginning t t 11 'no- 1 ·eali worth f th · tt Rensselaet· Polyte-chnic Institute. Through open ance IS no grea · Anotht>r Reason to have visions of a returned pros- tion:-' Y Y 0 err a en- the vears these two teams have met, often Union seelil1S to be running down socially. But it is also for another reason perity. Russian trade wm not lift J -that we are beginning to feel some the depression from our shouldE'r~ twice a season, until now, after thirty-two Soiree will, in all probability, never come brotherly love for the Russian muz- 1t will take more than that. At back Perhaps it is bette-r that it never does hik. Russia is too busy taking care least it will be a spit in the bucket encounters the R. P. I.-,Union g-ame has be- • of her own troubles to be bothered rhe1e are some sceptics who believe come a tradition, a tradition marked bv On the other hand, the short Saturday night v-:ith a proletarian revolution of that Russia will set up trmding cen· J world wide scope. Probably the tets in the Un-ited States for the diH strong rivalry. dances a.re always a pleasure to attend, and worst thing that could befalL Rus- hibution of her products and will the manner in which the Student Council' ~ia right now would be the setting undersell us since she has cheap A cursory glance at the record of the 1 up of international communism. At labor. Russia is having her hands supervises the entertainments makes them the present moment she needs the too full at present supplying her numerous game.s between the• Cheny and the capitalist countries. In fact it is own needs to beg-in supplyir:g us. Garnet shows a prepondel·ance of victories much more orderly than some college dances \ ery necessary for her well being At any rate, for a while the bot!urn {' of which we have heard. that capitalism continue to- flower of trade will .be in our favor. J it· for Union. But the al'l'ay of Union's tri- and flourish for the moment at \inov was not speaking thmugh his The Rochester game is coming in two least. Russia's lot will not be so hat when at the World Economic - The Hili New:-~. St. Lawrence Univer::;rty ·---------------------------~ !Notes On 0 u r Contemporaries f.'twl iVctll\l' JJop 8/nrteriu-g . .• Jfa·nit•tl.l • .• Pr1111k ('aridru ... !Juu• Lett!f''d ... I' hcntinrt umphs means little to her coaches for they good when they take sick and get conference this summer he said 1 tl t th R p I t :fi h t th · h d weeks. Why not have a few dances about belly-aches as they all have now .. tl,a.t Russia could place a billion J mow 1 a e \· · · earns 'g en· ar - the camptlS? Not Ollly wl'll they make the Ideally speaking, Russia in prin- dollms worth of orders each year, ~>---------------·<e> ••. 1Vrnnr:-: est when playing the Garnet. No mattet• · , · · \ · · r1p!e is committed to reform the pzovided she was given credit. Thus aLu-rnni enjoy their stay here 1nore, but they world. But not right now. Those it appears that the only reason for how many games Union may win, the Engi- rabid Bolsheviki who wanted to Russia's exporting at all now is that neers from Tro\ a:lwa\S come back, vdth an . will also encourage a fine interfraternity bring about the world worker's rev- Fhe needs the cash to buy. If she J J spil'it. olution right away if possible are were given credit, and she can pay unquenchable fi1·e to make their rivals work not in Russia any longer. Comrade back, there would be no need for Trotsky has been relegated to writ- her competing for our mm·kets. for every yard, for every scm·e that they get. ing books and crying about how This is true for the present while 1-:lTANDARD BE'ARERS l·adly he has been treated. <Read ,,J,e i,; ;;till building herself up inter- For a temn to g-et beaten consistently by ,, · • his History of the Russian Revolu- nally. When thal is done, then 't ld t · ] d t t b k h twn in two tremendous volumes.) what? Another column. l s o- es rlva s. an. ye 0 come ac eac Today, besides witnesshlg a classieal grid- Perhaps in a hundred years from At any rate to recogniZE' Russiu year with an indomitable determination to kOl'l struggle that dates back almost a half now when Russia is on her feet ~~not so difficult a task as we make once and for all, she will take it it out to be. We recognize England pla,\' with eve1·y ounce of' st1·ength. win or n century, the spectators on Alexandet· Field t•pon hE>rself to make us into a com- and seem to gt'l along and to have not,-that is the hei.!!ht of good sportsman- . 11 . h ... 't . . munist country. But w.hy look a diff<>rPnces with thu,;e big- tall blond \ WI ave an oppot ~Ulll Y to See lll actiOn two hundred years ahead? blue-eyed, square jawed empire ship. In close games, scores seldom are a other Garnet standard bearers, the cross- Karl Marx's IdPa buildE'rs. true measuring- stick of the trival tl'ams' cali- country and freshman football team::;. bre; sportsmanship, however; is always to be Union can well point with pride to her reckoned in judging a group's actual worth. cross-country record. Last year the harriers Toda·y, whE>n the Garnet meets the Che·rry, lost only one dual contest and finished no matter who wins, let the two opppsing- among the leaders in the Middle Atlantic elevens be juclged by the spirit they put in States 1\Teet. This season Coach Ket:r.'s men the game and by how well they stick to the seem about to equal if not surpass this l'ec- code of good sports. ord. Running against first class competition, HOW ABOUT SOME SPIRIT? . the Gamet runners have won their first thl'N' meets with little diffirulty. No mattet· how gruelling- the race may be today. Union's supporters may rest assm·ed that every ounce of energy which can be summomed up will be expended in the attempt to give her The Cniun College Stw.leut Body has been an unmarred record for the day. criticized rather harshly recently for their Although all other freshman sports have complete indiffet·ence to their football team. been abolished, tha footbal-l team shows no Rig-ns of shirking the task e.f maintaining Such a condition is inexcusable, and there ie the athletic prestige of the class of '37. no reason for its continuance. Under the extremely able tutelage of Coach This aftemoon the team needs the support Nelson Nitchman, this eleven ca:n be ex- more than all,\' team has for some time. We pected to give a good account of itself. In his hope that for once our Student Body will three years of coaching freshman football wake up and support the team to the utmost. Coach Nitchman's charges have lost only one game, two years ago. Last season the Union must win this game to have a sue- yearlings were unscored upon, and this sea- cessful season. A victory over the Trojans son have an mncrossed g-oal line again with will do much to raise the morale of the team. a scorceless tie and a victory. The Rennse- After tod.ay's conte-st the Garnet faces Wil- laer team is playing its first game this year ·and its quality is unknown. As in the vars~ Iiams, Rochester, and Hamilton on successive ity contest, however, a hard fought battle Saturdays. If we can finish the season with may he anticipated. This is the Union first four victories, our season will be a complete year men's final encounter o-f the year and success. . it is hoped that all those who failed to \see the first home game will avail themselves of Let us come right out and back o-ur team the opportunity to see the freshman class' to a man. All they need is a little encour- only athletic representative in its last con- agement, and victory will be ours. test. MUSIC by Rankine Hinman And why not, say you? Simply this. The whole idea of Commun- 1 ism as set forth by Karl Marx and I ir;terpreted by his prophet Nicolai Lenin, is based on the philo~ophy 1 ol the German Idealist Hegel. Hegel I iuvented the notion of thesis, anti-~- I thesis, and synthesis. What does this mean? You have a definite so- • !.i:==============.!l Ciety, the thesis; suddenly you have I We hnpP thnt many of th~ 1 a reaction or opposition to thE' pre- , . • ro · valent form of government or soci-. leges wrck-end guests w!ll be a~lr rty, the antithesis; the opposing t~ atteml thP ?rgan rP<'I!\11 ';Nht~h forces fight it out with wm·d,;, laws, i Dr. El~er A. T1dmarsh wrll grvP m cr g-uns and you have 11 new order, J~.femonal Qhapel tor:'lon?w at four the synthesis. To illustrate, therE' is; o clock. ~o admrssJOn IS charged an absolute monarchy going along~- for the rP{'Ital. peacefully, England; ,;udaenly somP- \Flnlandia\ and other wnr k~ nf body begins yelling about rights and 1 the grea-t Finni~h cumpo>er. Sibel- freedom. they argue and come to 1 ius. constitute th~ elo~ing ~1oup cf blows; and ther1 lo and behold you I th.r pt ogz am whr•ch _Dr .. Tidmauh have a Magna Carta. Will present. He wr-11 be assist- Govei•nment OvPrtlmown 1 ed· bv. M~s. ,Eva Naff~ig~r, contr~l- . . . to SJbeltu~ wnrk diPtmetlv Fm- Thus m Russra the Czanst gov-lnish and quilt unltl{e German. Rus- ;rnment was overthrown. After a. sian, or I'VPn Sr::mclinavi~n music .ot of banter back ~t;td forth they I con~tit utes. a pecular compositE' of are. ~t last ~yn_thesrzmg. ~ut_ on folk music, tragic my~tery that -has then own pnnczples, the prmC!ples evolved from the honor and gloom c,f Karl Marx and Hegel, revolt ~s, of centuries- of struggle again't a bound. to appear agamst the th~s1s fearful environmen-t, and a !a!'hing or _social orde!· to J?e. Commumsm fnrth of emotions with enormouF s~nctly ~peakmg 1s flux, change. force which preven-ts his work from 'I here Will be five year plans, and becoming m-orbid or unmanly. fl\ve ~ear plans, an~ five year plan.s. In \F'inlandia\ ate exptH~ed F.uss1a wrll be havmg her domestic many chara.cteristic:: of his muoic· w9rries into ~ternity. .In time she inde.scribably sad yearning, use. of might get a brt of resptte and then folk tunes or themes 1 e~embling be able to devote herself to chang- them, powerful patriotic enthusiasm mg o~r form of governn1:ent. But as in the accumulating sweep of se- what If she does? We Wlll change quences in the middle portion of anyhow, ferhaps w~ will not cut the nu~ber. Dr. Tidmars-h will -also each others throats m our revolu- piay Sibe·Jius' \R<>mance \ \Coril- tion. We will have evolution, not Ion,\ and ''Valse Triste.\ The vivid re_volution. Yet who can .tt11 what realism· of \Valse Triste.\ written \nll be. But my dear children, do for Yarnfeldt's drama \Kuoloma\ :,-ou know that we are in the midst Is especially pervade 'with mystic uf a revolution now? Read Mr. Will legend, h<Jrror of death. ~-oger's tel_egram to the New York Ol~ssic Gre.ek Dance 'Itmes thrs Tuesday where he . speaks of things simply unheard of ~tuden~s, WJ}l rememb.er one. of in the good old days. Enk Sahe s Gymnoped1es\ .whr~b . Mrs. Ros·en played last sprmg m Another bone of contention be- her thezemin recital. Tomorrow Dr t~~en t~e U, S. and .the l!- _s. S. R Tidmanh will play the First \Gym- \~hrch d1d not perm1t off1cral rela-- nopedie\ of this somewhat eccentric ~on_s,._ was the oancellatlon by the French composer, whose s1vle re- .._,oviecs of some debts due ?S· These sembles that developed t-ater ·-by his debts a;mount to rou_ghly e_1ght hun- close friend, Debussy. A \Gymno- ~red ,million dollars r~eludmg !llYth- pedie:• is ·a classic dance given on I<:al u~t~rest. Of t~1s sum erghty- certam festal occasions by dreelr six .mrlhon dollars IS owed to the yout·hs. National City Bank who floated The program also includes Pre- some Czarist bonds. There is also lude and FUgue in G minor and liome money lent the Kerensl.y f:OV- two trag-me:nts from Dupre'~ \Sta- CHEATING From the psychological clinic of the University of Hawaii comes the star !ling statement that 25 out of every 100 students will cheat if the <'hance of escaping detection is good. NAMES At Fordham UnivE'rsity it appears that the faculty arE' appointed by name. Father Deane is dean, a F<'aher Whalen acts as dean of dis- debating, and Mr. Vuekal ( pru- nouncE'd vaczlol b in charge of the glee club. FAST WATI<~R BOY Marquf'ltr- Vniversity's football team has thE' fastest water boy in the world serving it. He is Frank !>Ietcalf, the Olympic tmck st:J.l'. STUTTERING Prof. Lf'e Travis at the Univers- ity of Iowa placed ping pong on the cun iculum in his speech clinic as the part of a p1ogram to· cur·e blUt- tering. FRANii CARIDEO Frank Carideo, former all-Amer- ieAn 'JII'lliPrhaPk at NotrP Dame. has failed to win a single major gamf' <lUling- hlH tiz·st two yPal< as head coach of the University of Mis;;ouri. MARRIED? Rtatistirs prove that married ,;tudents at Wyoming University avPt'RgE' bP!ter grade\ than fhosp unattached. BOW-LEGGED The Parcnthf'sis Club, uniqU'.' or- ganization at th<> State Teachers College in Trenton, N. J., is only open to bow-legged men. SAMUEL ,JOHNSON'S'.' The YR!e University library soon is to receive from Gabriel Wells a manusnipt of a sl'rmon b~Iievl'd to have been written by Samuel John- son. -Associated Collegiate Press. tions of the Cross,\ which the com- poser _played he~e three weeke ago, Capr;ce by Gmlmant.\ and Sc·hu- mann.s lov~ly \Traumer; Mrs. N_affzrger Will offer -two- son.gs by Lrszt and Haydn. Bo;qton S~mpathy Tonight Tcharkoveky s Fifth Symphony will be the major work on the p-ro- e-ram to be given tonight •bv the B;oston ~ymphony Orche~:tra at 8:30 o clock !n !he Plaza Thea.ter Dr. Koussevrtzsl,y's reading of this sy·:m- P.hony ranks. with his interpreta- tions of. Sibelius' works among t·he accomph:;-hmen.ts for which t·his Ql'- c.hestra rs most famomi. The pro- gra~ also includes Mozart's \Eine Kleme Nach\musik,\ the Prelude to Mom:-sorgeky s Opera \KhoV'ant- china,\ and 41 Till Eulenspiegel's Merl'y l\ranls:s\ by Ri~llarcl 8t1auss. ' ., 1:;: ···: ·.r = Ur Sq [)oVI B F Co drry the will tne y:iJl Tho !!!lOU fi-rst Ur b'lll iltotJ Will noel Ca guar Sam !..:ttc is a fron tean the I BE able ou1. has te..Lr juni mar. inar Sine ball ran~ U!JP wisl van A: bert will pra• \Jif.' Cler Jm« a·re mo:: first oth• carr kee tom mo~ be: oth• are squ pia: cen Gri: Ou< H B~ At 'I the the Bo: too 'l'r< na.! pia Ma ing thP. to be ~ ter sp< me Je~ po: sis ch: an 1 ab te~ scl thi by la.! th• of rei be a: '35 !iii at Wf inr Jet wi ia: ve in cl• th he b~ aJ ftc tc w C: sc Sl Jr. a I D

ex- out uld uld so- is S('- cir- of of oat is of ons If in- lay uns en- r s of out if is ars by a the in the as ut- aH of OR£' or- ers nly to by :30 ol'- ine to Union Basketball Squa-d·to Report [)ow, Jackson and McDowell· to • Be N ucleu,.r.; for Nitchm~n's · First Y e:w · as Head Coach., Co,,ch Nelson W. Nitchinan to- , dny issued a .coli .for c-andidates ~or the vazsity basketb:rll team w.h~ch . will <beg.in practice on Monday !01, tne .foUl teen game schedule that vill get under way on Decembe; .9. · Tho Gcrnat team will be bmlt mound 'three letterme:~. This is fi·rst year a~ head co~ch. Union's opponents on the b'sket- b<ll court this se~son include Ham- ilton, R. P. I., Amherst, Wesleyan, \Villiams, .Syracuse, Swai t<hmore, TI.ochester and. MlddiPbury. . : Captain Purcell Dow, veteran guard Raymond McDowell and Samu~l Jackson, forwards, are the J..:~tCI mt>n back this season. ~here is a .fine lot of matmial a:varlabLe from last se:'s::m's successful frosh team as well as 1 eserve men fr.om, the 1932 varsity. Large Number of Ca.ndidates Becaus of the large number of· able candidates expected to turn out this season, Coach Nitchman has arranged for a junior varsity te..tm as well as the varsity. The junior varsity will play the fresh- man basketball team in a prelim- inary to the home varsity contests. Since there is no freshman basket- ball extra-mural schedule, thi!i ar- ran,.,.ement will be beneficial to both U!Jp~rclassmen and freshmen who wish to keep up training for .future· varsity play. PAUL ESCHOLZ Assista.nt Football Coach Among the prospecis for varsity berths arc five football players who will not be available for b'l.sketball practic~ until the end of November. \Jiggs\ Rotunda, Harry Parker, Clement Smith, Ralph Semerad and Jm<eph Milano, all of Schenectad.y, . a·re experienced players who wrll . most likely gain places among the first ten varsity players. There are others, less experienced in varsity· competition, who wil give these men .. keen competition. .John Moffett, tennis star, has been practicing most of this fall and may prove to· be a star forward. Jack Ga,in is an- other forward possibility. There · are four sophomores who may squeeze into the first string court players: Van Antwerp Waldron, center, Michael Pri:mer, guard, Guy Griswold, guard, and Howard Ouderkird, forward. Hockey Will Not Be a Minor Sport Athletic Board Decides Not to Conduct Hockey at Maria- ville; Fencing Also Dropped Taking action on the report of the special committee investigating the hockey situation, the Athletic Board at a special meeting whi·ch • took place Wednesday night in the Trophy Room of the Alumni Gym- nasium decided that the proposed plan of conducting the sport a:t Marlav!lle is not feasible. In adopt- ing the report Gf the committee, . thP. Board declared its wiUingness to consi:ler other plans which .may· be proposed for rein.stating 'h<lckey . Fencing Idea Drop~ The Board also took up the. mat- ter of making fencing a minor· sport but decided aga:inst such a move because few of the small col,. leges have fencing teams .. The special committee which re- ported on the hockey situation con\ sistcd of: C. William Bennett, '34, chairman; Robert J. Brearton, '34, · and George R. Cory, Jr., '34. Student Agitation Because of extremely unfav..or~ · able weather last year the hockey· team was unable to play all of its scheduled games. As a result of this hockey was dropped as a s·port by action of the Athletic Board last spring. This action met with the disapproval of a large number of students and agitation for its: reinstatement wa:s begun at the beginning of tins year. Acting on a motion introduced by Austin Fox, '35, captain of football, who out- lined a plan for conducting hockey at Mariaville, the Student Body went on record a:S favoring the re- instatement of the sport. The Ath~ letic Department then declared its willingness to the plan and a spec- ial committee was appointed to in- vestigate the matter. A thorough investigation by this committee dis- closed several obstacles which madec the proposed plan of conducting · h<lckey at Ma:riaville impractical. VARSITY BASKETBALL NOTICE All aandidates for varsity basket- ball except football squad memb.ers · are to report in uniform on the gym floor at 3;30 o'clock Monday, Oc-, tober 30th. The members of last year's squad who are expected to report are . Captain Dow, McDowell, and Jack-' son, only lettermen, and Moffat,· substitute forward. Also sever.a:l-t members of last year's fresh squad· are e:x;pected. The first game will be played on December 9.-Middlebury away. The team will play a tough sched- ule of 14 games including Syracuse, Swarthmore, Amherst, Williams, Wesleyan and Rochestel', CAPTAIN FRANK MEYER OF THE R. P. I. VARSITY ELEVEN THE CONCORDilENSIS, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1933 Board of Strategy HENRY KUl\IPF Head Football Coach Coach Henry Kumpf once again send.s his R. P. I. foot- ball team again.sot Union In an effort to score its sixth victory since the series be- gan. Assisting Kumpf in coaclaing the varsity- are Paul Graham and Paul Escholz. Graham is also head swim- ming and bas.eball coSJCh and his teams have met the Un- ion teams for ma.ny years. Captain Fr·ank Meyer is the outstanding man on the En· gineer squ•ad. He is the quar- terback and the best punter on the team. PAUL GRAHAl\'1. Assistant Football Coach MARTY McDONOUGH Cross CoWitry Coach Three ROSENDALE FLOWER S H 0 P ScheneCJtady's Telegraphic Floris•t Flowers of Quality 124 Jay Street Phone 4-'0540 Opp. City Hall .. fEtLE.RS - BIG TIME TONIGHT FUN'S ABROAD - GET YOUR DATE - LET'S GO W.ILL INAUGURATE ITS BEiAUTlFUL NEW FIREPLACE TONIGHT, OCTOBER 28fh FAVORS WILL BE DISTRIBUTED. WHY NOT DINE AND DANCE THERE AND ENJOY YOURSELF? MUSIC FROM 9 P.M. TO I A.M. WE SUGGEST THAT TABLES BE RESERVED Saratoga Road at Ballston Tel. Ballston 200 THE DIPLOMATS WITH THOMAS DIRECTING THE BAND I keep coming back to that word ~~balanced\ on the hacl{. of the Chesterfield package Y ou often heal' the word balance- something is out of balance- top• heavy, not on .an \!~even keel.\ . What you read,~~chesterfield Cigarettes are a balanced blend;\ means that th-e right amounts ofthe :dght kinds of tobacco are welded together; that is, home-grown to- baccos, the right kind, the right quantity- are blended and cross-blended with tohac• cos from Turkey and Greece. When these tobaccos are balanced one against the other, then you have a mild cigarette. When they are in balance, then you have. a better-tasting cigarette. May we ask you to read again 'the statement on the back of the Chesterfield package? May we ask ,you to try Chesterfield? A. Balanced Blend (!!) 19.;3, t!GGBTT & MVIlliS ToBAcco Co.

Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1933 How the Freshman Teams Will Line Up for Game on Gridiron Today THE CROSS COUNTRY TEAMS UNION LE Sloatman Rlil Doyle LT Gatchell RT Campbell LG Potts RG Fagan QB Hughes RH Englehardt Lli Llfflton FB Brown c. Barton Full Name Pos. Wt. Name Angle, Richard W. RT 175 •storm King School, Rochester Gllcoyne Arny, Malcolm L. T 160 •Irving School, Montclair, N. J. Murphy Barton, Robert A. c 190 •Union-Endicott H. S., Endicott Smith Brown, Ernest C. RH 160 •Gioversvile H. S., Mayfied Streachleau Carscallen, Edward FB 160 •st. Bernard's Schoo, Watertown Campbell, Paul, Jr. RT 180 'MCCallie School, Chattanooga, Tenn. Beckwith Doyle, a.J'mes Q. LE 168 •Roxbury School, Sprbgfield, Mass. Maffett Emerson, R. .Chapman FB 145 ~scotia H. S., Scotia Sa mans Englebardt, Philip FB 160 Nott Terrace H. S., Sahenectady Sturges Estrich, aJmes D. E 155 West H. S., Rochester Fagan, Joseph P. RG 170 •St. oJhn's Prep, Brooklyn Fenton, Donald M. RG 170 Margaretville H. S., Mavgaretville Dooley Gatchell, Frank B., J'r. LT 201 •McDonough Sahool, Baltimore, Md. Farrington Haskell, George P. QB 140 •Hotahkiss School, Huron, S. D. Kramer Iolughes, Wallace R. QB 155 *Hotchkiss School, Chicago, Ill. Taylor Le Tarte, Duane c 160 Mont Pleasant H. S., Schenectady LUfiton, Donald LH 160 *Albany Academy, Albany Meyers Macinnes, Donald LE 131 •Manhasset H. S., Manhasset Pry ell MacMurray, Kenneth RE 141 •Manlius School, Brooklyn Mulcahy, John J. RH 120 William Hall H. S., W. Hartford Becker Paton, Harris W. LG 160 Elmira Free Academy, Elmira Engle Potts, William K., J'r. LG 163 *Bloomfield H. S., Bloomfield, N. J. Hoffman Prest, Edward G 150 Erasmus Hall H. s .. Brooklyn Jones Sloatman, John, Jr. REl 170 *Glen-Nor H. s., Norwood, Pa. Kauffman Smith, John F. FB 170 Manual Training H. S., Brooklyn Roberts Stephenson, Henry RT 165 Woodberry Forest School, Buffalo Schaefer ViSCUJ3SI, 1\'lartin T 156 Mont Pleasant H. S., Schenectady Sibley Wilson, Herbert R. LH 145 Albany H. S., Albany Skylarlt •Preceding prep school denotes he pia yed on its football team. ALWAYS tlte.ftnest to!Jaccos ALWAfiMefin~t~~ma~hp ALWAYSLucllies please/ LE LT LG QB LH R. P. I. G!lcoyne REJ Smith M:affett RT Sturgess Dooley RG Favrington Roberts RH Becker Kauffman FB Jones ·C Meyers Name UNION Hometown W. Kazmierczak, '34 Schenectady L. Nestle, '35 Gloversville G. Mirate, '35 Schenectady R. Gottschalk, '34 Hankins E. Bastedo, '36 Hastings-on-Hud. R. North, '36 Sohenectady R, P, I. Name D. Rogers, '34 J. Esser, '36 c. Getter, '36 J. l'i1:ikesh, '35 C. Bradley, '34 Hometown Daytona Beach, F. East Hadden, Com Binghampton Kingston Boise, Idaho Albany Pos. Wt. School G. Neumann, '36 Brooklyn D. Webster, '36 P. Wilber, '35 P. Tweed, '34 R. Dimoclt, '35 Danbury, .Conn. Schenectady Saratoga End 160 .. 155 155 155 Tackles 176 198 164 190 Guards .. 147 200 187 184 Cent:;rs 177 144 Backs 140 135 159 150 172 166 158 145 140 Troy H. S. Manlius Williston Academy Dean Academy Herron Academy California Tech Philadelphia H. s. Albany H. s. Long Berucli, N. J .. H. s. Dover Plains H. S. Brid:geport H. s. Albany Academy Vandergrift, Fa., H. s. Bridgeport H. S. English H. S. (Boston) Buffalo H. s. Englewood, N. J., H. S Clloate Academy Wappingers Falls H. S. Perkiornen H. s. Jersey City, N. J., H. S. Friends Academy Troy H, S. \V. Brockwehl, '35 Lynbrook E. Kern, '34 Sahenectady J. Gregory, '34 Sahenectady J. Ross, '36 Albany A. Walther, '35 Upper Montclair, N.J. FOR QUICK SERVICE- CLEANING, PRESSING SHOE REPAIRING Call BALL'S, 2-3456 or bring to 633 State Street \WE WILL DO THEM WIDLE YOU WAlT\ til LUCKY SMOKER It's not by accident that Luckies draw so easily, bum so evenly. For each and every Lucky is fully packed-filled to the brim with sweet, ripe, mellow Turkish and Domestic tobaccos. Round, firm- no loose ends. That's why Luckies are so smooth. \it's toasted~' FOR THROAT PROTECTION-FOR BETTER TASTE Si Qj Si er , hou Mu da Sig1 Phi aim A fori will G~ A clos will der lOll! and L Hal acl will lin, Tuc p dan Da, and Fre nisi s trol and T clo~ will T.: Fie p pie• ing Ha: bar of ten c ly 81 ir: b• t< r• B p T (

THE CONCORD:EENSIS, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1933 Six House Dances Methodist Church Group Dr. Samuel Holmes of <Buffalo TENNIS TOURNEY POSTPONED Oti C . T .. ht. To Hea1· Godshall Speal• To Be at Chapel Services Because of the continued inclem- \ ent weather and the resulting con- • · ampus onJg. · --- diticm of the tennis courts, the Ath• D W L G d h letic Department has seen fit to , . r. .·. eon . ·O ·s ell, head of ;Dr. Samuel VanVranken Holmes,, postpone the completion of the cur- the Pohbcal Science Department . pastor of the Westminster Church Six. closed d:ance;S and one s·mok- will scp.eak to the ~ong·regation of .of Buffalo since 1893 will deliver the rent intramural tennis tournament. er w1l1 be held th1s Saturday. The the F1rst Methodist Cliu.rch of :principal address at the service in ~~~~;;;;;;;;;~;;_;~~;;;;;;~ houses giving dances are: Alpha Schenectady tomorrow night on the Memorial Chapel tomorrow morn- 111 Mu Sigm-a, Alpha Phi Delta, Lamb- topic \International Rel:itions And ing at 11:00 o'clock. da Chi Alpha, Phi Sigma; D~lta, Peace.\ He will also present a se- After he was graduated with a Sigma Chi, and Theta Nu Epsilon.· ries of lectures at the Albany West- bachelor of arts degree from WH- Phi Si.gma Kappa will give an ,minster Pr·esby:terian Church; and a Iiams College in 1883, Dr. Holmes alumni-freshman smoker. ' series ·befqre the Colonial Club of: &ntered the University of Berlin · Alpha Mli Sigma wil hold an in- Canajqharie, New York, during the where he studied for two years and. formal victrola paJrty. Chaperones next s1x months. studied for the ministrr at the· will be Mr. and Mrs. _J. Mortimer IIi his addre13~ Su?day evening,. Princeton Theological Seminary Gershon. The dance Will be closed .. · Dr. Godshall wlll d~scuss the ef- • from which he was graduated in Alpha Phi Delta is giving a· fects of Germany's withdrawal 1~87. Williams College conferred. closed informal dance. Chaperones fr?m the. League of Nations, the. upon him a Master of Arts degree . will include Mr. and Mrs. Alexan-. Disarmament Conferenee, and the in 1886 and the honora~:;y degree of der Grasso, Mr. and Mrs. F. 0. Fur- pres~nt situatio,n of international: Doctor of Divinity in 1903. long Judge and Mrs. McMullen, relatwns. He Will present the first After Dr. Holmes was ordained in · and 'Mr. and Mrs. E. Ma:ncuso. of a serie.;~ of six monthly lectures, the Presbyterian Ministry in 1887, · Lambda dhi Alpha will give a at Alb!ilnY OJ?- N9ve~be;r 16, o,n; the • he servesJ. as pastor of the First · Halloween party. The affair will be ge~e;,al topic Chnsban C1hzen.- Church of Richfield Springs, New a closed, victrola party. Chaperones ship. . < . . York from 1887 to 1892; from there will be Mr. and Mrs. Edward Ham- The. fust of h1s senes before the he went to the First Church of lin, and Mr and Mrs. William E. Colo~lal Club, under the general Washington as associate pastor Tucker · headmg \The Far East,\ will be until 1893. Phi Sigma Delta wil hold a closed entitle_d \Chaos in Asia,\ and will dance. Chaperones will be Judge be delivered Monday. ,C;>n No~en:'f?er David Wanger and guest, and Mr .. 13, he .Vflll.speak on Potent~~llhes and Mrs. Benjamin Dubb. Hal 0 ~ ~hlhppme Ind~pendence. F~r Freed and his Cardinals will fur- his fmal talk he w1H present an 11- nish the music. lustrated lectm;e on ;;Far East. , Sigma Chi is havihg a: closed vic- Through Westerno Eyes. trola dance. Chaperones wiU be Mr. and Mrs. Laurence s. Bourst. . Woolman and Nessen to . Theta NuEpsilon will hold a D b t A . t H t . k · DEWITT'S LUNCH Opposite New City Hall · 118 Jay Street closed victrola party. Chaperones e a e gainS ar WIC · will be Professor and Mrs. Charles 1.-.------------_; T. Male, and Mr. and Mrs. Willia:m. Fiedler. PLEDGING NOTICE Phi Sigma Delta announces the )Jledging of the following men: Irv- ing Lifset, '36, Stuart Eisenberg, '37, Harold Friedman, '37, Philip Engle- bart, '37, and Bernard Salad, '37, all of Schenectady; and Robert Galu- ten, '37, New York City. Bellinger Paint Co. ARTHUR TRIGG, Prop. Paints, Oils, Varnishes, Glass Brushes and Wall Paper 126 BROADWAY FREE. 2'h GALLONS of ICE CREAM to Union Man Who Makes the First Touchdown MOHAWK CREAMERY 848 EASTERN AVE. Five HUDSON THEATRE NOW PLAYING 8 BIG ALL STAR ACTS SHOW FOR SATURDAY SUNDAY, MONDAY, TUESDAY George Hunter -- Pearl Diamond Co. Rodero and Lenoff - Corrine and Co. Morin and Gale - Alvin and Strubel Twins Northlane and Ward,- Fallet and Rich TilE HUDSON THEATER extends a cordial wt.-lcome to Union College at al times. We are playing only strictly high c~ass vaudeville Special Vaudeville Concert Every Sunday THREE SHOWS DAILY - 2:30 - 7 :15 - 9:15 PRICES - MATINEES 25c - EVENINGS 40c m emw SNIC A SMAC AFTER. THE CAME at the I At the next meeting of the Philo- mathean debating society on Man- • day, Oct. 30 the subject, Resolved; That the States of the United States that Desire to Allow the Sale of Spir- ituous Liquors after the Repeal of· the 18th Amendment Should Adopt ' the Bratt-Anderson PliJ.n of Liquor Control. The affirmative team will consist of Chester Nessel, '37 and Joseph Woolman, '35. The negative team will consist of Seymour Horo- witz, '35, and Richard Diamond, '35 . .----------. On Nov. 10 Union will uphold the· THE BEACON GRILL s d G h I CORRECTION affirmative of this question against ST REGIS PH a n ·w I c 'n n Hartwick college over WGY, this Serving Delicious Sandwiches • · ARMACY team will consist of Nessel and Fried Oysters and Clams Charles R. Carey, Prop. L I In the Tuesday issue of The Concordiensis, it was erroneous- ly .stated that the Faculty Wom- en's Club ·booksale will be held in Silliman Hall. The sale will be conducted from December 4 to December 9 in the reception room of the Administration Building. 'Woolman. On the Half Shell This is the s:;tme quc:;tion that 756 ALBANY STREET 600 Union Street . Sche-nectady's Po. pular Rendezvous \'as debated at the last meeting of \On the Crest of the Hill\ PHONE 4-1123 the society, at which time no deci- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ sian was rendered. This Is a topic f,~~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;,;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~;;;;;;;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~= of timely interest l',lnd one that b aroused a great deal of discussion· v:ithin the club. Dr. Leon Godshall, . director of debating, gave some very constructive criticism to the de- Mrs. Mortimer F. Sayre is president of the club this year. The following names were inad- vertently omitted from Mrs. Harrison C. Coffin's committee: Mrs. Robert W. Abbett, Mrs. Charles F. F. Garis, Mrs. W. Leon Godshall, Mrs. Raymond M. Herrick, Mrs. George Dwight Kellogg, Mrs. Dwight Van Avery, Mrs. Kurt von Forstmeyer, Mrs. John N. Vedder, and Mrs. Char- les N. Waldron. The committee will be assisted by Miss Green. TUTORING IN PHYSICS $1.50 per hour HARRY SUMMERHAYES 4-8900 COLLEGE GIRILL Sandwiches and Beverages A TRIAL MAKES A CUSTOMER Cor. Eastern Ave.-Jackson Pl. baters. The Philomathean Society is al- ways open to new men, and it is urged that all those interested at- t!'nd the meetings, For All Occasions 8~ 'le_flSEY cyj )_IJICE CREAM Schenectady's Premier Phone 4-91 06 CHARLES' Formerly ED'S The Offi'Clal Union College Barber for the past 24 years. Ask any upper classmen, they !mow. 11 operators. Schenectady's great- est barber. COR. STATE AND BROADWAY MOHAWK TAVERN (Formerly The Armory Club) 322 STATE STREET SANDWICHES AND COLD DRINKS SPECIALIZING IN CLAMS AND OYSTERS HENRY'S BARBER SHOP BARBERING and MANICURING 4 N.Y. C. Arcade A Hot Dinner (ora bite) Awaits You After the Same atPELOP'S A FINE PlACE TO EAT-ON STATE STREET Hello Boys 'THE UNION INN' The Old Home of Best Cold Drinks and Luscious Home Made Sandwiches lrmumrmnurunurmrr:nmmnttmmnmmmrurrmmlnrrmnmuumnmll 517 UNIO,N STREET A. P. DeSienna, Prop. NEW FALL MELTON ZIPPER JACKETS Cossack Model with Side Straps in Blue or Maroon Cil Sizes 36 to 4.6 440 State St. A remarkable value as only Apex can offer. Bought before the wholesale mar- ket advanced. To- day's replacement value $4.95. EXTRA HEAVY, ALL WOOL MELTON ZIPPER JACKETS 'failored from a 32-ounce Melton ()loth in the ·Cossack model Roomy raglan ~~~~ :tbead:e~ S495 buillt in 'foldaway'' . muffler for added · protection. A real $7.50 value. Phone 2-0469 Schenectady, N. Y. JJ7hm yo11 see N'iaga1·a Fallson the Package, you K.NOW ;you have Shredded Wheat, HERE's Energy F OLKS who pull a steady stroke in everything they do usually favor that natural energy food, Shredded Wheat. Here's why. Shredded Wheat is made only of whole wheat- nothing added, nothing taken away. And whole wheat is packed with natural energy ele- ments • • • proteins, vitamins, FOR YOU! minerals, carbohydrates and bran. Get enough of these, and your days will be brighter. For these are the vital elements that put a snappy spring in your step. Try it, for at least ten days. Just order\ Shredded Wheat.\ It's ready cooked, ready to eat. Pour on plenty of milk or cream. Top witlt your favorite fruit. And. sail into the finest· tasting energy food a few pennies ever bought. THE VITALLY DIFFERENT FOOD SHREDDED WHEAT A product of NATIONAL BISCUIT COMPANY \Uneeda Bakers\

Six Internal Disorder Caused Nazi Revolt Gl'rmans Believe War Defeat Was Occasioned by lntemal' Enem:es of the Government Mz. G \V HEuman, an engineer of the Genua! Elect! ic Compa11y, atl'dres~td thE Geiman Club at it! regular meeting in Silliman Hall TuEsd!iy evening. Mr. Heuma11. w-hc YisHcd Genn::n) yeaz·s age and who has bEEn in dc::e touch with Ger- man afiai1s spoke a•bout the pres· en t situotion in the land of the Nazis. He did not judge Hit1er's mcthcds but EXplained the reasons for the ~uccess of the cbance1lor's National-Socialistic party by show- ing the ideas and grievances pze. dominant in the minds of the Ger- man people. \Thme German people,\ said Mr. He1:1mann, \do not believe that they we1e defeated on the field of bat· tie dm ing the Gz eat W:i.L They beNeve that the final downfall of the Kaiser's government was due to internal distm·bances caused by spineless. crooked enemies of the go vex nment. They also believe that they were unfairly treated by the Allied P{)wers at the end of the war and that the ti ea ties signed have not bE en lived up to by the other nations of the world. Aiter the war the middle class G·e_rman people were caught between two gvind- stones. They stood face to face with starvation, and the futm e gave no promise of relief. It is the yout·h of this middle class who are Hit· ler's ·mos·t ax dent mpporters and who supply him with his militant following, the storm troops.\ Concerning t.he 1 acial per sECU· lion>', Mr. Hmmann said, \The Jew:; in Germany are considered by Hitler to be the feJ.ment which is spoiling German nationalbm. He believes that they are becoming. too po-werful 111 fmancial affau~ and are trying to take over the govern· ment and form their own world empile. The.z.efore he hates them.\ In conclusion Mr. Heumann as- sex ted, \Call Hitler what you will,· saint or devil. but it must be un- derstood that he is a political fact which cannot be takl'n lightly and Ia ughed off. Hi~ 1 egime is well es- ta.blished and will not soon break down. Whether such ·evil practlce:; as the religious· persecutions will outweigh the idealistic aims of Hit- ler\s govez nmen t can not be deter- mined now. Only time will I eveal his ultimate success or failure.\ ---10--- PI DI<~LTA EPSILON THE CONCORD1iENSIS, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 28,.1933 Sigma Xi Ho;nors Outstanding Science Men FB.I!lSHM:aN BASlrnTJ3ALL Starting Monday October 30th all f:r.eshl:nen interested: in basketbaU Jhould report daily at the gymnas- Ium at 1:30 o'clock to Coach Nitch- inan. Gy,mna:sium credit will he given to .all members of the class from which gwup wHl be chesen a class team which will occasion- ally be pitted against the· varsity in scrimmage. ---,o--- SELEC.'l'JI:ON At the University of Berlin stu• dents an allowed a peLiod of six weeks to analyze and select their : professOl·S. !• ---o--- 400 MORE. JOHN W. GUl'tRY ROBERT W. GURRY JOREPH HOR:V ATH, JR. JULIUS J. SITNEY DONALD F. VROOi~AN As a resul-t of an editorial cam- paign wag-ed last year at Temple University, the section of the· sb- dium r lloted to the student body has been enla-rged to permit the seating {If about 4.00' more per-sons. ~--------------------------------------~--------~----~~~~~~~--~. Garnet Out for Secorm Five Science Students Are Named .to Honorary Scientific P1·ofessor Stanley Takes Part In Symposium at Wells College Alvin Nitchman Speaks Gr·•\d v· .• ·ctor~y of s~a:son: Last week the 'Tute' eleven jOUT- 0 'AI d C 11 ' neyed to Rochester, where it was U UIDllUS an 0 ege defeated 13 to 0. \Red\ Conrad was Group Professor Philip Stanley of the department of PhHosophy is one of the three speakers at a sympnoium Five seniors were elected to as- at Wells College which opened yes- sociate membership in Sigma X~, terday and will be concluded today national honorary scientific honor• 0n the subject \Meaning.\ The. ary society, at a me_eting of the meeting is held under the auspices fratemity held Thursday. The men of the Creighton Club. \The Alumnus and the College' was the subject chosen by Alvin Nitchman, '21, for his talk in Daily As~embly W::dnesday. Mr. Nitcll man is one of the founders of the Schenectady Alumni Association and was the first of the trio of Nitchman brothers to be graduated who wer·e honored ax:e John W. The symposium constitutes the Gurry, Robert W. Gurry, Joseph entire program of ·the fall meeting Horvath, Jr., Julius J. Sitney anc. >f the club, which is composed of from Union. Donald F. Vrooman. :ollege teachers of philosophy in up- The Schenectady Alumni Associa- d \tt 1 t :tate New York. Professor G. Watts Undergraduates are a mt e< : tion is only three years old and was Sigma Xi on the basis of excellence Cunningham of Cornell University 1 f in scientific research. and of high opened the meeting last night with tint organized around a nuc eus o scholarship in scientific work, the his paper on \An Analysis pf Mean~ 70 Union graduates who held regu- full memben<hip :belng granted only ing.\ Professor Ross Hoople of Iar social gatherings, Mr. Nitchman · \fi t h h Syracuse Univet·sity followed with after some srgm can resea:ro · ' as explained. The first accomplish- bE'en pubHshed. The Union chap- his paper, \On Meaning and the· ter, which was estab!ishE'd in 1887, Meaning Situation.\ The concLud- ment of the group was to sponso1 lwldo two election, each year, one ing- paper on. \Two Preliminaries to a concet t in Schenectady hy the early m the ti1st semester and the th£> Study of \\'I<'aning,\ wa.s read by Glee Club. Other events were sp:m· other in the middle of the second Dr. Stanley. sored until the association had half of the school year. A session for the discu:;sion of the enough money to establish a yearly Horvath Ele<!trical Engm- N>r papers took place this morning. scholarship to Union. Professor Harold A. Larrabee also Besides sending a boy to Union Joseph Hor-vath, whose home is attended the sessions in Aurora. each year, the local alumni group in Farmingdale, Long I:~land, i:; a ---~-------- ·plan:; to hold a banquet each yeat member of Phi Sigma Kappa fra- associated with the Philomathean for the senior members of the foot- temity. Recently he was elected society. He is a resident of Sche- bull team and it is hoped that thi~ manager and acting captain of the nectady. Sitney earned his election will become a firmly E'stablisht>d · A spirited la;st quarter attack the outstanding player on the Eln• gave the Union team a 7 to· 7 Ue gineers' team making a 27 yard run with Wesleyan, September 30, in the off the Yellowjackets' right tacltle. first game of the season. The Dutch- men crosses the Car dina! goal twice in the final seconds of .play but were compelled to forfeit the touchdowns on account of penal- ties. Passes from Dain to Semerad and fine running by the former ac- counted for the smashing 32 to 0 victory scored by the Union eleven over Hobart on October 7- An impregnable Amherst p3ss defense completely demoralized the Garnet and left them on thP short end of a 46 to 0 score in the third game of the season on October 14. THE ACME HOUSE LINEN SUPPLY CO., Inc. Rents Linen for all Occasions (You pay for Laundry Work only) I ()30 BARRE.T ST. Phone 4-9310 Lacking any defensive drive; a I listless Uni9n aggregation bowed to a fighting Swarthmore team, 6 to D. last Saturday.. . L---------------1 The Drug Business· is Our Voc.ation nQuality .. Is 'Our Slo-gan BRANDHORST PHARMACY Garnet's 1934 golf team. Last year to Sigma Xi through his work as tradition, he said. Horvath served on the Interfrater- an A. B. student majoring in chem- rn closing, Mr. Nitchman urged \O.n the Corner\ Union Street and Gillespie nity Council until it was disorgan- istry. all undergraduates to take an. ac- ized. He earned his appointment Donald Vrooman, also a resident tive interest in the college after d d to Sigma Xi by his outstanding of Schenectady, won this distinc- they graduate by becoming affili~ : E war H. Brandhorst, Leland E. Brandhorst, work in electrical engineering. tion because of his work in elec- ated with some graduate associa- i John W. Gurry lives In Alplaus trical engineering. Vrooman was tion and said, \If there is not an Reg. Phar. Reg. Phar. ter of American Society of Civil ing his freshman year. one.\ and is a member of the local chap- a member of the Spanish Club dur- association in your locality, make !~;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~~ Engineers. He earned this disti nc- ~;;;;_;;~;_;;;_;;;_;;;;_;;;;_;;;_;;;_;;;_;;;_;;;_;;;;;_;;;_;;;_;;;_;;;_;;;;;;;;_;;;_;;;_;;;_;;;;:_;;;;_;;=;I There will be a meeting of Pi tion by means of his excellent work '~ Delta Epsilon Monday at 4:30 in in civil engineering. the Student Council Rooms in Gw-ry Is Chemist North Collega. PETER'S TREMBLAY'S SENIOR CLASS MEETING There wil be a meeting of the senior class Monday at 1:00 in the Old Chapel. All members are re- quested to attend. PYRAMID CLUB INITATES The Pyramid Club wishes to an- nounce that it initiated the follow- ing undergraduates on Thursday, October 19: Herman D. Kluge, '36, Schenectady; Dalwin J. Niles, '36, Scotia; Willis B. Plummer, '36, Toms River, N.J.; Michael Priznar, '36, Cohoes; and Monroe Froelich, '37, Woodmere, INTRAMURAL BASKETBALL ENTRY The ........................ . Erroup wishes to enter in the in- tramural basketball tournament and favor::l the round robin elimination method of competition. Put Your Savings . ma Savings Bank The Schenectady Savings Bank Where Clinton Crosses State Interest from Day of Deposit Robert W. Gurry was honored with membet·ship in Sigma XI be- cause of the high calibre of his work in chemistry. He cames from Alplaus. Julius Sitney has confined his extra-curricular work chiefly to the Mountebanks, having been a mem- ber of that organization ever since his matriculation at Union. Dur- ing his junior year he served as secretary of the Mountebanks and now is its president. Sitney is also You Grow It-We Cut It and Shave It at the Terrace Barber Shop Haircut 35c Shave 20c Nott Terrace, Near State And Just What Does That Name ·Imply? Pure tempting foods Enjoyable and pleasant atmosphere Thoughtful! intelligent service Entirely as PETER'S C'an serve R. iva led by NONE Sanitary and modern kitchen OUR INVITATION INCLUDES YOU Peter's AND SODA FOUNTAIN 426 STATE STREET Liberty St. and Nott Terr. VISIT OUR BLUE ROOM FOR BREAKFAST SPEOAU PRICES TO STUDENTS NOON 'HOT LUNCH-25c L .. F. NICKLAS I n·c. 164 Jay Street EXCLUSIVE MEN'S SHOP CLOTHING., FURNISHINGS, HATS AND SHOES OF THE BETTER KIND May good sportsmanship prevail and victory bring with it the ad- miration and respect of the· ones who must lose this footba,n game Compliments of the GAZETTE PRESS s~ H Ca ' to sw· tlu th! wi rna ( SW ffi( ho De 0}: 40- an be ex: Jo pe wr wi Sc di• st1 str ·Bx sii ar· an wi K1 lo: wi M ou at m th pa pE I is AI b~ n: y1 pl h: m al ri e< sr T tl n• C< e• ri h n A b tl T 0 'I d $:

n n x s. .. e. '\ ! ! ·• f I I \ THE CONCORD!IENSIS, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1933 Seven Swhnming T e a m Tr • , L. . • h • . BY POPULAR REQUEST ,Twenty States Represented F;=======================~ Fo.ward Line By Un·ion College students. Has Bright Future. unzon s · · zg twezght Captain Gordie Neese, Oppen- heim, Maney, Schuman, Burd. Stea-ms, Argesinger Among Veterans !Reporting With eight ;ectermer. returning . to the squad, the prespects -for the swimming season are much brighter than at this· time last yea:r. Using these men as .a nucleus, the team will be built up to acquire the maximum strength. • Gordon Neese will lead the team, swimming the back stroke and the medley relay. Captain Neese is co-. holder of the medley velay with Don Schuman and Joe Maney. Bob Oppenheim, holder of records in the 40-yard dash, 100-yard dash, 220 and ·140; and last year's captain, will be available again this year and is. expected to do his usual good work. Joe Maney and Mal Griffing are ex- pected to take care of the dashes while Maus Stea·rns, and Oppenheim will swim the distances. \Boom\ Schuman will again take part in th~ dives and George Burd the breast stwke. The team will also be strenghtened by the return of Gus ·Brown who was out last season with sinus trouble. Other veterans who will be back are John Argesinger, Frank Squir~s, and Dan Flinn. The sophomores wi!I be well represented ·by Leake, Keens, Griswold aml Sherman. The loss of Miller and Don Schuman will doubtless be filled by these men. Practice begins a week from Monday when the team will work · out by perfor·ming various- exercises at the pool in the gym. The fresh- men will work with the squad, al- though they are not eligible to take part in the meets. Captain Neese declares, \pros- pectR are better than last year and I c:<pcct t,) ~ec some good meets.\ ~--··0--- FOOTHALL RIVALRY Football! Ancient rivals! That is th~ st01-y of today's game on Alexander Field. Union's first foot- ball was played against the Engi- n,•ers from Troy and since then, 48 years ago, 32 games have been played in the series. R. P. I. has had a little difficulty in winning more than five games, but this is always their big game. The keen rivalry between the twC> schools each year draws huge crowds from sport lovers in the Capital District. This is practically the only game in this district that draws as many newspaper sports editors. They come from every local paper and even from New York City. Keen rivalry always is the basis for a human interest story. Can a goo<l newspaper man resist this contest? And so they come-eager to see the biggest football rivalry in the dis- trict. ---0·--- TICKETS FOR WILLIAMS GAME Jose:pl{ v. /IG-IIJS, JR.. TflCKl..e Q'g' AUCHENPAUGH'S BRASS RAIL · Som.e in.ter-esting figu:tes·. -have . been eo-m.•pHed by the Dean's offi'ce with resJ?ect to the present st~d·ent enroU:m.e.u:t. Of the eight hundred ~tudeB-t& in CoHege, 723- come· from New York State and many small town~ a:I:e includ.ed in the state di.s- tributi.on. Ninety-seven &tu<len1-s come .from• outside New York with the fbllowin·g states rep.r.eseuted: Arka:O.Sas .. , ....................... 1 Connecticut ..... , , ....•.. , , , .... 13 · Ca.IHornia .. , ....... , ... , ........ ·1 ilJ~f~~s ::.·::::.'.'.'.'.'.'.·::::::.'.'.'.'.'.'.' i Massachusetts , ..... , ... , ...... , . 15 :.M1nnes<Jta . , ......... , ........... 2 · M~ry~an.ct· , .. , ... , ......... , .. , .... , 1 .M1-c.h1gan ........................ 1 · N·ew J'ereey .. , ..... , . , . , ... , ..•. 31 New Jiiampshire ..•.... , . , . , ... , 1 :Nbxth Carolina ................. f : O:hi<J. . ...... , , .. , .. , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 .:Pennsl'tlvania ...... , ... , .. , ..... 13 ,Sou:th: Dakot-a ..................... 1 : South Carolina . , , .. , .... , ... , , . 1 ': T~n~e~see ........ , .. , , . , ..... , , . 1 ·, V1rg1n.1a , ... , , , ........ , , . , ... , . . 1 .Vermont ..... , ................ , .... 2 ; Dist~i-ct of Columbia . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 .ForClg;n .. , , , . , .. , .......... , . , ... , . 6 · · In, the senior class 7 per cent 'come fr-om outsid-e New Ymlt State, , in the junior class 12 per c.ent, in ·the· sophomore c-lass 11 per- cent, :and in the freshman class 15 per :cent. · The fraternity membership is 519: 61' boys ar·e commuting and 19&. are :living at home and woz·king for • main-t-enance. 36'. az·.e li:ving in the :! eolleg·e dormitcries. ••Cheerio'' O•M•D• A PLACE TO MEET A PLACE TO EAT UNION•s OLD STANDBY STEAMED CLAM.S 2.Sc Our Work and Prices Are Competitive LOB.ST·ERS SO·c Served With Hot Butter Sauce GARNET TAILOR 305 Liberty St. Tel. 4-0122 8 STATE STREET PHONE 2-6135 At BARNEY'S • 2nd Floor Brunswick -RECORDS Victor Bing Crosby Hal Kemp Best or Cas a Lorna Lombardo Reisman Ray Noble Whiteman and Others • ALL CURRENT HITS IN STOCK We Will Repeat Our Specials for This Week-End CHICKEN CLUB SANDWICH WITH COLE SLAW 25 DELICIOUS IS THE WORD C Step over after the game and try this tasty sandwich or on Sunday night when we have ofher specials at 25c Next to the . ·M ·u··. R R y ' S Amid Pleasant High Schod · · Surroundings

Eight Quaclrup·le Threat THE OONCORDilENSIS, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1933 Cross Country Coach Union's Coaches, Managers, Players .Ot//VC/J.N S. /l'lcNrJB C!ACI<. - '-35 Substitute Back Freshman Coach Director of Athletics J'lr ,)!' :,~, •r,i . ;\ ':1: j\• ! !:~ ~ Vol -· R• Pl In Pre c }; N Cor !I l A: den I tar:v defi the min ject moe th~?-1 era; nin deb T SE:VE hop CO VI .:he tion due ed, and et s . stin of~ !oar and gov VEE I pos liqu flat a~h ccu Tht you has ma· inc1 ~at· pro T me1 me: anc to que Bu1 bee sul1 agi tim its is I bili the tud fot wa: hi\ CCC l1 1 t'lti de>J Dr DIE bu: rle1 of St< I>t Vie Tu >'PI on all thl iot {t t·h· liv th. ch th fu: th is !111 ch ,, .. i lil an 16 ar. c'U h~ co st• ur te or la

zch 'IIi . ;\ ':1: Student Paintings Will Be Sold At Ann~tal Booksale Vol. LVII, • UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1933 Balanced Budget Makes Possible TweHty General Scholarships No.l2 Ro~sevel~s Money\ ....... -G---A-:R.N_E_T_P~I¢_;---Tu_R_Es--\':! Idol Wo.rshipping A Picturesque Rite·i, Policy Un.Im,por't. ant\ The Glee Cltlb picture, otig- At ·Union With Frosh as Sacrifices nAn.v .AssEMBLY Trustees Authorize inally scheduled for tonight at · In theu ···nt·te.l,. States . 7:30 in Hanna Hall, will be By VEDDER 1\1. GILB, ERT . U. taken at the same time temor- SPEAKERS Tomorrow- Prefessor Harold I ' !Granting of Twenty Larrabee, \Why a Man .Should ' N ·s h 1 L • Study Philosophy.\ . . ew C · 0 a f S :ll} p S i row night in :fianna Hall. All · Last year when the Student form. They danced or sang, vowed members are expected to wear Council abolished the paint fights or disvowed, declaimed or un- . tuxedos with wing collars ~or · it made steps towards ending an claimed, boxed or wrestled accord-· President's Recent Statement . ' that picture. ancient tradition which still ling- ing to the whims of priestly soph- ers on in the form of an occa- omores. Of Recovel'Y Policy Mel\ely .. Individual pictures of the sional splashing of paint on Dr. During the first few days the Anothe1· Inflationary Scare Junior Class will be taken at , John Nevius' Chinese idol. Idol's color was continually chang- the Whl 'te s· tudio, 215 State o h ed. Custom bad decreed that th-e t er .Amer10an colleges have d 1 b Thursday - Mr. H. Laurence Achilles . Friday-Dr. Elmer A. Tid:_ marsh. Saturday -- Professor Joseph D. Doty, \The Place of History in Gener·a! Education.\ Tuesday-Dr. Edward Ellery, \When the Mind .Awakens.\ NRA NOT PRODUCTIVE Commodity Dnllar Which Will Not Fluctuate Seems to Be Utopian But Is Worth Try Street, beginning on Monday, their idol worship. Union devised I o e clad in summer's favorite. November 6. The sittings will . a ritual which resembled that used hue,. green, but the freshmen were be arranged for and membe:ts . in other colleges, and outdid any prone to overpower the sophomores of the class of 1935 wiU be per- rites performed by the most pic- who guarded it day and night. sonally notified of the time for turesque pagan religiens. The soph- Soon the \ged\ would be bathed in' 1 ---------------- their sittings by the associate omores made idol worshipping a .Autumn's glowing tint, red. After B f\t f L • e ·ditors in their fraternity houses t . t t f t· . th a brief time, however, an unwar:y . ene I S 0 . ei·sure . mo:; zmpor an unc 10n 1n e f hm or in their dormitory. life of a freshman. No ene was res an would be captured and regarded as fully admitted to ~~~~ ~~in~~ver the shrine with Tim. e to be Debated S d t P • t• Union College until he had paid Th t I t .U· en . aiD ··n·gs 'ttibute as either a worshipper or e prac ice of painting the Idol human :;acriftce to th£' foreign wa:; :;tartcd before worshiping it . B y Phi.lomatheans o d F s ) d · was begun. One morning not so Des 1¥e ' . 0 r a e elty. long after its arrival to the campus By Leslie R. Long .Li. · The capuing::. about the \shrine\ Rev. Eliphalet Nott Potter on his we1e :;acred to the sophomores way toward the chapel glanced at alone. The upperclassmen were a!- the foreign deity, stopped sudden- Art Students Invited to Sub- mit Samples of Work for Sale; Benefit of Loan Fund .Ambiguity smrounds the Plesi- dent·~ recen·t sta.tement on mone- tary policy. No one seems to know deiinitely what it's all about. Since the inauguration of the present ad- ministra<tlon, one of its major ob- jectives ·has been to rai.~e the com-' modity pJic:e level to such an extent Students who paint or draw are that debts incuu ed prior to the· invited to submit samples of their crash of 1929 can be paid with the work to the Faculty Woman's Club ninimum of injustice to both the for exhibition at the forthcoming debtor and the creditor. The GoVE:t nmen,t has resorted to booksale scheduled for the week of several methods which, it waE December 4. These paintings and hoped, would collectively initiate le- · drawings may be presented to the covery and raise prices to the de· Faculty Woman's Club durmg the .:ired leveL Thtough the administra- weelr of November 6, in tlie new lion of the NR.A, it p 1 oposed to re- reception room, at any time be- duce the number of the unemploy- tween 10:00 a. m. and 2:00 p. m. ed, and thus increase the income Those wm:ks ultimately chosen and purchasing power of consum- as the best will be put on exhibi- et s. The end in view was industrial tion at the booksale and sold at stimulation. Through the extension that time for the benefit of the of government credit in the form of student loan fund. Any stude:n~ may loans to industry, to closed .banks, submit examples of his work lowed to take part in the rites only Jy, lifted his hand:o towards the a:o innocent bystanders and sym- sky, and exclaimed (so the story pathizers. The freshmen out runs) \Oh my God!\ During the troubles began almost immedi- night some enterprising students ately upon their arrival. The had bedecked the Idol in a robe of first week of the Fall term was white paint or wash. Soon after .placed aside for the services which the incident Rev. Potter delivered were held in the evening. They a lecture in chapel on \The Van- were illuminated by the glow of dalism of College Students,\ which bonfires kept high by the zealous instead of putting an end to the efforts of hard working frosh. The matter ignited the fuse of a prank f1osh also had other duties to per- which exploded into a tradition. Nott Terrace Men ChristNotOutof Are Good in French Date, Says Holmes Professor Auguste Zabuesnic Chapel Speaker States That Relates that Local Men A1re New Deal Is a Furtherance Well Prep::.red in French Of Jesus' Ideal of .Justice and to bankrupt hor:ne-own.e.zs,. the Mrs. Harrison C. Coffin, Chair- govelnment has gone into the in- man of the committee in charge o!' VEEtment ·banking busineEs. It'~ pur- the booksale, repmts that a ~·ast pose has been to ~tem the tide of amount of enthusiasm has J>een liquidation and to provide the in- shown in this project and. the re- flationaty ctedit which the c.dab- sponse to the call for contributions The students from the Nott Ter- :i!;hed banking imtituticn' cf thl has been very agreeabk ;itHdent,-; Taking as his text from Gospel ccuntry have xefuHd to ex:tend a:ze urged to publicize th.• '.ale nnd •..zce High School of Schenectady oi Malle, \Jesus walking before Th10ugh the medium cf the \Do ::upport it. ate by far the best prepared in tl:fm .... the disciples were in dis- your part-Buy now\ campaigns it ---a-- --- French of all the men who come to may and the company who followed has endeavmed to stimulate de- • d l.'nion,\ replied Mr. Auguste %a- '-' et·e afraid.\ Dr. V·. V. Holmes de- mand and co-mdinate it with the Outing Club Visits Dam an ciared in a sermon delivered Sun inez N>\Hl inrJugtr ial output nee£>~- Power Plant On the Mohawk buesnic, when aslted his opinion rlay in chapel that these words de- ~ary to maintain I\idng costs of ycslet'day un tilt! 1 dative quality :;u iptive of the journey of Je:;us pro~~c~o1 Not Yet Ptoductlv~ ---- and preparation of the graduates of and His followers to Jeru~alem, al- The Outin~; Club wallu.:d down the different preparatory schools. so apply to what is happeninE; in To date, the exten::ion <Jf govern- the southetn bank of the Mohawk .the church today. Jesus, rte said' is ment credit (Which iS not funda- ln answer to that much disputed going ahead With hi::l Ideals and mentally different from the iEsu- River as far as Vischer's Feny and . . . 1 Crossed On t he dam to the power questwn, he expressed the opinion fl!lDClp es, while his follow.,rs wallt ance of flat money) has done much hel1'nd 'th · · · 1 · h · 1 stat1'on Sunday afternoon. Since the that, in general, the men from the 1 Wl many rn1Sg1vm~;s as to to al eviate t e pamfu C<Jnse- his p ese t · fi d quences of unrestricted liquidation. water was high enough to flow preparatory schools are better pre- · r n m uence an authority. h h t t over the moss-covered crest of the The title of the subject was \Jesus But the NRA mac ine as no :ye dam, the· hikers had some diff.l'culty pared than the men from the pub- ·and Today.\ been productive of the desired re- · 1 suits. This· should not be dlscour- in crossing. A foot slip might have lie hlgh schoo.s. War Clouds In Ew·ope Practice Debate Will Be in Preparation for the Contest With State Teachers College A practice debate on the topic, \Resolved That the New Leisure Time is a Menace to Our Civilizar tion,\ will take place at the next meeting of the Philornathean So- ciety which will be held on Mon- day, Nov. 6. The teams will con- hist of Milton Schwebel, '34 and Joh!l Ward, '34 on the negative agamst John Argersinger, '35 and Bradley Plummer, '36. This debate is in preparation for a debate against Albany State College early in December. Yesterday the subject, \Resolved That the States of the United ~tates that are Willing to Allow the Sale of Spirituous Liquets Af- ter the Repeal of the 18th ,Amend- rnent Should Adopt the Bratt-An- derson Plan of Liquor Control,\ was again debated in preparation for the Hartwiclt debate over WGY <•n Nov. 10. The affirmative team of ,roseph Woolman, '35 and Chester 1\Jcssel, '37, which will represent the suciety against Hartwick in a tn.dio debate November 10, won a two to one victory over the negative team of Seymour Horwitz, '35 and Richard Diamond, '35. .After the debate, Dr. Dewey commented on fach speech and gave constructive criticism. A heated discussion on the topic later took place among u,e members. :Ralph English, '34 and :Paul Crumley, '35, will represent Hart- wick in the first radio debate of the season on November 10. Board Also Announces Income For Fiscal Year Is Large Enoug·h to Balance Budget SCHOLARSHIPS OF $250 Large Enrollment Increases Receipts From Tuition and May Produce a Surplus Union will end the fbcal year on J.l:IJY 31 ~ithout a deticit, po~:;ibly With a slight surplus, it was an- nounced to¢lay by Acting President ·Edward Ellery. His statement was made following the report of the h us tees of the collq,;e who \bal- anced the budget\ for the current year at their Fall meeting last week. It was believed last Spring that the fiscal expenses would be in ex- cess of the income fer the year 1933-34, but the saviugs brought about by co-ordination of various administrative departments and the increased income from tuition fees now bring the total available in- come to a higher figure than the $426,900.00 budgeted expenses. The increased incume frum tuition is made possible because last. Spring the total enrollment for this year was expected to be far less than it actually is. Although there are 820 students enrolled at the pres- ent time, the trustees have set the conservative average enrollment for the year at 790 for budget purposes. In addition to balancing the budget the trustees have authorized Professor Charles N. Waldron chairman of the admissions com~ mittee, to issue twenty general scholarships, each valuEd at $250 to members of the incoming class in September. These will be in addition to the endowed scholar- ships available. Scholarships ar<' granted enter- ing students on the basis of results of College Entrance Examinations in English, .Algebra, and Language, or for students entering from New York State on the basis of results of Regents Examinations in these subjects. The trustees will meet again m January. aging in itself. It will take some resulted in a fall of nearly thirty Mr. Zabuesnic firmly believes Within the past few weeks war time before one can fairly judge feet into the water below the spill- that the stur;lent benefits greatly ciouds have arisen on the political its success or failure. However, one way. fi'om the study of modern Ian- horizon of Europe. Dr Holmes said is free to speculate ·on these possi- After eve~yone had crossed_ in\ g~ages. This '!tudy b_rings ~he .Am- !hat although there ~ight be an bilities. The problem of enforcing safety, the h1kers followed the nver encan youth mto sbmulatmg con- Impending war it was his opinion the ccd£s- iE of far ·greater magni- Pastward as far as the village of 1 tact with the foreign outlook and that it would not be the type that tude than was the problem of en- Urescent, then returned to Schenec-~ tt·mperament, and with another people expect. But, howe\ er that fD1cing the 18th Amendment. That. tady by a road along the northern way of thinking and feeling. When may be, two facts stand out clearly. was a noble experiment. but it was· bank. . llia~e under the guida~ce of an ex- First, the growing conviction that highly impradiml Press reports of Next week a meetmg of the Out- pen~nced teacher,, th1s contact is war is unchristian and wrong, and Admirer of Tidmarsh Writes Letter In Praise of Sunday Organ Recitals cede violatioM and l·abor unrest mg Club Will be held to elect an 1 !hCVltf:lbly bt oademt:lg· In conform- I Pecond, that pPac-e will n~V<'l' pre- ( Continued on Page 4l executive council. 1 1ty With the teachmgs of modern vail among nations until suspicion Edit?r's N~te: The following is p~~:c_hology, the memorization re- r>nd hatred are supplanted oy- love an arttcle wntten anonympusly by 0 . 0 o 9Ul;Stte for the study of a language a.hd goodwill. Peace cannot be someone who has been Ji~tenin,g to w. H Sto ·rm 11Kedzcal 11trzsszonary IS ~nvaluable as .a mental exercise maintained throughout the world Dr. Elmer Tidmarsh's Weekly or- • • ' lf.14 lfl. I . · \':'bile the analys1s of ~he con~tr_uc- v:hil_e economic treaties and diplo- gan recitals. f1l [[ f L •,j! . d R ll' • -- • I Afr • tton aids remarkably m clanfymg matlc notes ;;tnd ·Understanding pre- Reflections On Im.pz,essions .1 e S 0 . lte an . e zg l()n, Jn . . lCU, the mental processes. . vail and can only be maintained The _opportunity ·to sit in lt build· · 1 i • Mr. Zabuesmc declared himself through an aband_onmcnt of sclflslz ing of b~\illtii'ul simplicity and li\'· ' very much in favor of class-room stupid nationalism. ' \' \ ten to inspiring' music is an ·event By ROBERT C. NORTH ~onversations, which ax:e to be done In . regard to those distur.bing in the nmsic-lovers life no .matter in its~lf. Th~ a_z c~itu;tuz e io ear·ly Ameucan, signtfymg white paint tall, ?lear-paned windows, and nut: ed plllars. A balcony is on three sid'es which is contributory to the friendly atmos,phere one feels on entertaining. One takes a program and fin¢ls that they too are friend- lY:, Bach, Debussy, MacDowell and Wider; a nice c<Jnsideration for varying t9;stes. TJ:te organ though not large IS beautiful, the organist is-an artist. \.Arabia land of deserts dark- :;andy wastes are almost devoid of 1 away W!~h nex~ year m 1 the fre::;h- quest1ons of individual existence, how often it may be experienced <'!tinned Arabs polygamy whirling plant life. Gazelles, bustards, and I man an sop. omore c asses. A i Dr. Holmes said that we can look ::;urroundi'ngs w!ll always play an dezvishes- do' you. wond~r,\ asked scavengers hover about the few fer-' ~o~d. tehacher IS. bobrln, . notth m_~de, 1 ~nly to Jesus for a satisfactory an· zmportant part m one's enjoymE;:nt Dr. w. Harold Storm, \that we tile water holes. The .only practiCal I ~n sue_ :'l- man Is a e, m e c.a~s 1 swer, ~s those men have done who 9f !'1-nythjng, and I suppose the rna- On art OctobP>l' Afternoon medical missionaries are )tept means of transportation is the I ~~::e~e,::ai~~n~, ~~u~~a~. ouh of t~c~~ 1 haveh ll~ed the ffi:Ost ':!ffective, tri- JOnty of devotees Of organ musk Again the stage is set. It is an busy.\ The vel'Y religion of these csmel. I otherwise :ema· n.\ wth o lblllgl umtpthan and happl~st l!ves through- have, qJJHe contentedly, listened in October afternoon·, on~~ e'·'es are 1 t d ak de ideas · a· d I m m e al- c- e>u e past centunes beautiful city churches. The build· 1 t bl' •- J r esher nomad sff!ll It ei ~o ~· D The Arabs themselves, preJU 1ce 1 g 1 ·ound, passive. The proof of the 0 • ing itself is architecturally correct, a mos mded between the vivid- of ygiene i 1cu o . eac · r. by r.eligious fanaticism, do not en-1 \~orth of these mor.e or less inform- 0 ----- · ---- th , l'!ess of the foliage and the bril- Siorm, a representat1v\: of t~e courage foreigners to travel through j a! talks is the number of students ,::,eniors Nominate Three · e appomtments are luxurious, the liance of the sun. One's soul sings IJu_tch Reformed Church m Arab1a, _their cou_ ntry. Non-Mohammedans who after exposut e to thi's system stained-glass windows are marvel- with the · f' I' · Th d M d d M r· G d c . lous and the organ is the biggest JOY 0 IVlllg. e happi- V!Slte the ~ampus . on :'LY an ure forbidden to enter some of the have been able to get along in a en or ra uate ouncll d th b T ness of anticipation is apparent Tuesday, du~mg wh1ch t1me he h<?IY _cities under patn of death. Only foreign country. an e · est. he organist is a mas- ~he ~us_ic begins, and I'm sm~ ;•polte to vanous groups of students Wl'thm the ·last few years have the · Wh t' d t . th ter of-the organ. · smc_e 1t l'S Bac·h, the eyes of the oil several occasions. natives somewhat relaxed their vig\ en ques JOne as 0 e pur- <?-e<iri!'e R. Cory. Jr., Daniel F. The scene is laid-the music be- audience are on the organist. One Arabs, according to Dr. Storm, ilance. The explorer, Bertrand p~se. progress and value .of the Fhnn II. and L Reed Tripp were gins-the audience is quiet, relax- watches to .,ee the different parts ate divided into two so~ial g·roups, Thomas, recently crossed centNll FJench <f.lub, Mr. Zabuesmc an- n!Jminated for the Graduate Coun- ed; I observe a lack of restlessnese of a Prelude· and Fugue, as well the intelligent city dwellers and the Arabia and discovered a sea of salt 1 ~werddd fTheth French Club . ~as CI! repreli'entative of the class of at an organ recital in marked c<ili- as to hear. It is like hearing the ionorant nomads of the desert. water unknown to the outside 1 <.un e or e Plll pose _of glVmg ~£34 at a meeting of the class held · trast to almost any other kind of very 'land\Scape through whic·h we fhese ·simple wanderers live as ·v.orld. 1 the student:> B:n oppot.tumty to ac- 1n the Old. Chapel yesterday. Bal- co_ncert; people listen attentively ~ave come, one exclamation of de- t·heir ~ncest?rs for centu.ries 11!!-ve· Nomads Show Hospitality \ qUire an. mtm~ate knowledge of lots will be given out .at the Daily w1th eyes vacantly looking intc li_ght after another. Again the soul lived,. m fra1i tents of skms wh1ch Althol.!gh naturally hostile to for- Frel'!c.h 1 . 1 ~.e, cu:;toms, culture and Assemply exercises tomorrow at spa_ce or mor~ probab]y, at a smgs. Then, ·by this artist, we are they move fr!)rn oasis to oasis. Milk, eigners, .Arabs do not lack a sense\ traditwns. which time the voting will take stamed•glass wmdow. The music transpOited body and soul from cheese, a few dates, whatever food; of hospitality, Dr. Storm hastened 1 · ---:-o , • place. fills the gieat building with wave Bach's . definiteness to Debussy's they can scrape fwm the desert w explain. No traveller h; ever 1 Wave Modul1h011 Is Dis.. on wave of noble crescendo, or with su~ge~hv:eness. Approprlatrly by form ~he1r cl!ude diet. Meat for turned ~way !rom a desert encamp· , ·d t R d\ CJ ·b M t Cmy i< ~ditor-in-ehief cf The ·Con- breathlees pianissimo. Thrilling im- thrs hme, the sun begin~ to ]o<e its them lS a luxury .. Smce polygamy merit w1thout food and rest. A no-~ CliSSe a fl iO. li ee cord!ensi>·. managu of t1ack, HCle- p1eseions arc taken ·away, and brilliance, the ntmo,.-phrrr mftrn,.., · t' d b th l .. · t · tary of the AthlEtic Board on the eve · t h. h •t d h t3 sane 10ne y e r rellgwn, a mad's ten 1s open to beggar or Public. ations Boar· d and a 'membe·r ryone IS, o ts or er capac! y, an · as t e epirit of the music i~ man will crowd-his wives and many prince. Mohammedan or Christian. . . . satisfied. translated to the audience one's children into a small, dirty tent Slavery and democracy are At th~ Oiel r.egular _meetmg of 0 ~ th~thHale Club C'ory is Af'sociat- Another Kind of Satisfaction eyes forget the altent·iveness' of ob- with little space and no ventilation. strangely mixed in Arabia. Master t~e Ra~w ,Club, last Fnday, Alfr~d e WI'. the Pel Upsilon fraternity servation, and turn gradually away under such conditions tubercUlosis and slave eat from the same kettle Bischoff, 35 · chzef operator, dis- • Flinn is president of the student But there is another kind of sat- to gaze, not at stained-glas~ win- and malaria spread with alarming and sleep under the same tent. If an cussed !1 new method of wave body, chairman of the Student is.faction which is entlreiy ·unrelat- dows, but through clear windows, 1apidi~y. 1\rab should have a male chHd by modulallon. Council and presiden-t of the T·er- ed to the word \t·hrill in fact the up through the yellow-green elm Sandy Wastes lit IntPtior a slav':! woman, he must ma~ry her The cl.ub's radio station ~or the . race Council. Flinn is head cheer- word satisfaction is wrong. It is a leaves to the_ gold-blue sky,, which Because of religious fanaticism· lhfoit hrs .son m~;Ly become. a ngh~ful .. present xs, a por~able one w1th ~he leader and wa~ editor of the 1934 . state of being that may only .be de- takes on a silver glow befot e our among natives and prevailing diffi- hen·. Girls are not cons~dered ~~-I call lctlets 8IJ\'Ii. Plans are bPJI}g Garnet H(' i? a m<?m'bcr of Phi scribed as ephemeral; one can't unconscious. dght. OI;le no longer culties of travel, fe\V w. hite men portant enough. to requ1re Iegltl-~ formulated for a p_ermanen_t set. m Delta Theta. grasp it or catalogue it; one is sure follows the mu::ic, but is one's ol]f have penetrated central Arabia. The macy. . • Ro?ffi: 21 of Electncal Engmeermg Tripp ls also op !.he S·tudent to .. lo,se it, yet never fa): get it.. And as a puff of mill{-weed, toE::cd a·b'Out coast is extremely rugged, with , Penetra.lle;9. Inter101' Bmldmg. so I m sorry for the music-lover~ by· gentle zcphers, or melancholy ste~\ cliffs r1·s·1·ng out o· f the a···ean Smce 1927 Dlr_. Storm, a gradua_te The members of the club, unde~ ~ouncil as well as being prominent who will never sit in Union Col- sighs of subtle hue which could ~., . ~ f th U 1 t f p 1 • 1li \he activitit~ of The Moun te- lege .Chapel_ on Sunday afternorm nE''Ver b!' eon fined to four '!\'Till~ and meeting the edge of a vest pill- 0 e r::'- versl ~ 0 ennsy vanta, the. guidance of Dean ~erg of the banks. Tripp is in both. the college wi:.ile. an art1st plays the organ. The .j Forgottl'n nre the ~urrounding~. thr teau. Expansive deserts broln•n has beel! m Ar..ab~a under the Board· Engineering Department, will soon choir and the glee club. He is a buxldmg, surrounded by acres of gorgPoume~s of thP ~PR~on. ,and only by occasional ·oases cover a of Foreign MISSions of the Dutch take up research work in short member of Delta Phi and President lovely_ green grass, and flanked by the arti8t. From sueh a flight cne large part cf the Interior. These (Continued on Page 4) waves of less than one meter. of Pi Gamma Mu. ·beautiful old trees, is a welcome never quite returns.

Two THE CONCORDIENS;fS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1933 (!1 -<•\i!- what is going about the campus because an • rtn-r·(l 1:~ \\~ .,, I)& t_.rnat\' ~ interest of this kind not only helps the col- :IJ » lJ 4J 4J lege, but makes your stay here mo1•e pleas- FARRAGO MUSIC by RankiAe Hinman \A Causa Persa Pa1·ole Assa-i\ FOUNDED 1876 ant. Wotta game! And wotta brawl! Tuesday, October 24: Roosevelt In the past we have had some lively ses-. Pa·l Sawyer rourd€led a gorgeous Will Buy Gold At Above World · · th Old Ch 1 d \f th October P. M., at lea::t for the sev- Price. SlOnS Ill .. e , ape • an I . e correct· eral home-team supporleiE who had ·Wednesday, October 25: Hitler Begs Dr. Koussevitzsky's leadership , steps are taken nOW, there .is no reason why wandered into the stadium. Little Reich To Back Him 1CQo%: was the outstanding factor in OUl' . t d Bud·dy, we understand, gallop< the Wants Peace Ardently: But appreciation of ·the ·concert given Affiliated With Pi Delta Epsilon ~~$odated @olkoiate 'Jwe.ss - + ;; -191 J (.N~~IIjN:LF ~~M:~ .,.:o~ERI\GE) I 9 34 = ·-- ' -- The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fridays throughout the college year, except during Christmas and spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Poot Off·ice as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union Callege Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, .. 4-0133 .. Address all busi·ness communications to Arthur J. Katzberg, Kappa Nu House, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. All other communications to George R. Cory, Jr., Psi Upsilon House, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD Geor.ge R. Cory, Jr .............. Editor-in-Chief Arthur J. Katzberg .......... Business Manager C. William Hun,tJey ........... Managin·g Editor Roberl. H. Smith .................. News Editor Arnold J. Friedman .............. Sports Editor Prince E. Oleson ................ Feature Editor C. Hathaway M. Berger Issue Editor JUNIOR BOARD D. Moulton J. Woolman R. Diamond ------ . . . . . Joseph A. W oolrnan ·~------------------------------------~ INTEREST CAN BE AROUSED S U' ents cannot be made to look fonYard to 440 .around 51 flat and holds the 880 Bars Inferiority ·and Says He l:ia.curday evening by the Boston the Monday t' record ever yonder. His gridiron would Rather Be Hanged Than ::lymphony Orchestra. Unlike J.'.liko- , ' Inee· tngs. · contortione were moEt amul:'ing. My- Dishonor Germany (Them's no- lai ~Sokoloff, who has appeared in roy, yes. :ble woid~:~, Ad·olf). the Uapital District several times Collegiate is dead .. Long live Col- Thw•sday, October 26 : W~ggin Gives in recent years with the Cleveland legiate II The crudities of goal-.post , Up $1-CCo,COO A Year Under Criti- Orchestra, Koussevitzs:k:y directs snatching reappear. We opined that cisro: His Offer on Retirement. without tne :slightest needless dis• , .this manly art had flown west, but Pay is Acce·pied by Board of play. ·rhe opening :Mozart Sere- . a:s usual we were ju::t foolish. The Chase Nationai (Rigorous, this naae was executed with a precision town of collars and shi·rts still har- Gotham asceticism). we have never heard equalled, yet Th · t d'ff 1. t bars sundry practitioners. These at times he did not even appear · ere IS a grea 1 · e1·ence ue ween school staged a field-day exhibition as an FI·iday, October 27: No Aid From t(} give the 'beat but :stood with · 't d d · · added featme to Saturday's fiasco. SmH:h, Tammany Learns: Me- arms lowered before him. His Spln an. row YISm. Evidently S0111e people The Union lads were slightly be- Cooey Still Hopeful (Camp•aign movements are ever adequate, at t f h . d' . wr'J.dered ·by ·th-r's d-r·spla·y of youthful· poem: Wordsworth's \Character t· 'l d t' b t nt · are no aware o t IS 1stmction. It is al'l very f th H w · , b 1 t rmes necessarr y rama w, u =- enthusiasm and so suuendered sev- 0 e appy a·rnor · 0 9 e-r- · ways made witn dignity. Jl t h 1 f era! odds and ends of old lLLmbu. ed· with the immortal line · we o s ow a ot o fight and pep, but there It's a grand ins~itution that garbs \Hope springs eternal within Mozart Opening NllD:).ber · f t the cliffs of Troy-an explosive M<\r.ooey's breast\). The fa;roed· incandescent tonal IS no excuse 01' anyone 0 come to our campus compound o.f Iogar Hhrns, sHde- • Satw·day, October 28: President De- quality of his ensemble satisfied on the eve of a big· football game aNd dam- rules. Ra.lph Henry Barbour, and clares Fmd· Ineligible For Con- our nighest expectations. This · Gotdy Randa·ll's music. t·racts Under Provisions of transparent texture and exact pre- age our property. The people's choice in Symphonic NRA: Operation Under Its cioiion of the strings, for which music comes to light as the Phi'la- Schedules Is Held Insufficient: the \Eine Kleine l'lachtmusik\ is On Friday nhrht somebody who could notu delphia Orchestra discloses the Prosecution Threatened (If this solely scored, made the Mozart ~ twenty-five compositions for which keeps up, Mr. Ford will have work an ideal opening number; it~ possibly be more mature than the avera£'€ it received the most requests since to J.ive off his New England simple purity an<L clarity of exgres- ~ the close of last s-easo-n's broad- source of income-The Wayside sion prepa;red mind and spirit for high school fr.eshman tore down one of the ·casts. This· column calls attention Inn. For a man must e•at, as more profound music. '!'he full to this season's first ·broadcast to- Charlie Dawes would say). tone iropartedtothepizzacato pass- goal posts on Alexander Field, put an R. P. 1. night from 9to lC :30 over Colum- Sunday, October 29: Ickes Corpora- age in the Romanza movement was bia WABC. The twenty-five works tion To Rebuild Slums: Starting especially effective. flag on the flag pole, cut the mpes and are arranged in order of preference: with Large Sum., Probably Dr. Koussevitzsky gave a very the firs.t two are scheduled for to- $200,000; It Plans Wide Program: sympathetic reading of the Prelude . greased the mast, and then took the globes night. We submit the first ten: Proposes in Next Few Months t(} J\lloussorgsky's ''J{hovanstchina,\ Beethoven's Fifth Symphony, Tchai- to Promote Understanding of catching all of its implications, the and bulbs from the lights on the gymnasium kovsky's Sixth Symphony (\Pa- Housing in 20 Cities (Our last beauty of the setting, the patriotic thetique\) Tchaikovsky's Fifth statistics run like this: less fervor associated: with the Red Symphony, Franck's Symphony in than half the homes in Aroer- Square, the religious sigillficance D Minor, Schubert's \Unfinished\ ica roeasur·e up to minimum ot the great cathedral bells, the were Symphony, Rims·ky-Korsakoff's standards of health and decen- conflict and unrest underlying sev- \Scheherazade Wagner's Prelude cy: a minimum standard in- enteenth century Russia. His painted in various conspicuous places on the and Love Death from \Tristan und eludes neither central ligMing, maintenance of rich tone through- IEolde,\ Brahm's .Symphony No. 1, central heating, nor even a out the decrescendo o·f the vibrat- THE \GENTLEMEN\ FROM TROY steps. Two years ago the letters R. P. I. campus. Some of the inscriptions are still, Beethoven's Symphony No. 9, Lizt's bathtub). ing strings as they faded away in It · d t l th t h St d t \Les Preludes.\ Monday, October 30: We focus on the closing measures of the nuro- IS goo news 0 lear a t e ... u en here to delight our eyes. We wonder what. Thus Spake Nietzsche: \Many a the death of three great men, ber was as beautiful an effect as Coundl is launching a campaign for the im- man fails to become a thinker for all announced in one paper: we have heard an orchestra will happen two years from now when the the sole reason that his memory is Paul Painleve, last of France's achieve. provt.ment of the:! Student Body meetings. The too good!.\ wartime Premieres: E. H. So- Tl \OJ.al1S come over here for anothei' \t d1\ Th G t thern, dean of the Amerr'can Tchaikovsky's Fifth Symphony :\Ionday morning sessions are much better · ra - e en le Art of Advertising: romantic drama and regarded in The breadth and sweep of the t 'on l\ f tb ll \You would get shipwrecked just h' . A . ' ft~st two movements of the Tcho'- llOW than they were last year Ol' the year be- I a 00 a ga1ne. when Colgate's is selling far only rs· prrroe as menca s fore- • ~ 19c. (Illustrated with the neces~ary most Shakespearian actor: kovsky Fifth Symphony were in f~n·e, hut tlwn~ is still plenty of room for im- \Ve cannot be certain that this damage was raft, brinkless ocean, forlorn cou- George B. Luks, famous painter. marked contrast to the Valse and t pie in evening clothes, plus news- There is something sane and Finale. The magnificent heart- pt·m..emen . done by our neighbors, but everything points paper). wholes·ome about George Luk'.s con- searching eloquence with which the urh t tl t\ d t f ll t To the lads who drr\b·ble the nor'se cepHon of the artist and his place Andante Cantabile was performed v• a lese mee mgs nee mos o a o in that direction. The Union undergraduates that \nothing ever happens,\ we in life. His way of expressing it was easily the high spot of the liV21l them up is a larger attendance. At pres- reverently dedicate this headline rings with strength: \I have no pa- pl'ograro. The third movement ful- do not approve of these methods, nor do they service of the week's news-one tience with the fellows whose •style fills too perfectly its purpose as a ent about three hundred students go to the headUne per day, no more, no less. is ruined' if they must make draw- foil; its lovely simplicity is utterly m~etings, and a large part of this number is practice them. No other college with which Two headlines savor ·of an exercise in.gs for newspaper:s or advertise- out of place. Last March we heard h hl t . l · in mnemonics. (To the dictionary, ments, whnse '•art is prostituted' if the Symphony played with the the freshman group. There is no reason why we ave at e IC re atwns comes down and you rubes!) Said news service will they must use it to get daily bread. Valse wisely omitted. d bring who's who and what's what Any style that can be hurt, any art We have never been deeply practlCall;v the entire undergraduate body amages our property. to the boys who can't see a newE- that can be smirched by such ex- moved by the Finale: its fury has should not attend the meetinQ's. All that is paper for the cloud of g.ruesome periences is not worth keeping lacked, for us, convincing powet. ~ We do not resent the Engineers taking textbooks. And what a boon to those clean. Dr. Koussevltzsky treated it with needecl is some sort of an inducement. who can't stomach the retchy prose And I don't believe in an artist's an intensity which never became down the goal posts after the game. They of all the news. that's fit to print. starving in his garret either. I can't vulgar, but which failed to alter Perhaps it would be \vise to conduct the d f A headline of.ten achieves an ap- see this rye-bread-and-water ·busi- our opinion of the movement. Only only e eat us about once in five years so they pealing pithiness: not so with the ness. Let the artist go out and earn in this movement was a lapse meeting·s in the ,\lemorial Chapel and to make homespun fine ·print. The further a decent living. Let him eat square n()ticeable In the otherwise flawless should be allowed to celebrate t·o that extent. d 1 d 1 d 1 · · f th h t attPndauce compulsory. Such a step would own the page one goes, the wHder mea san E eep eep seep and live precrs10n o e ore es ra. B · · f h the aesthetic nightmare. Hence the hard a·nd lmtily. That's what makes mean an assembly of some .sort every day, but ut IS 1t necessary or two or t ree R. P. I. bright saying that nothing is so art. That's what feeds genius.\ I I this situation could be cared for by raising players to assault the r-eferee after the game, obsolete as yesterday's paper. -J. P. R. Week's Best Editorial the numbet· of allowed absences from the and make uncomplimentary remarks through- ~ ~ And Life Goes on l!;;;;;======::;;;;;;;====dl present forty-five to approximately fifty-five out the afternoon? Notes On Our Contemporaries Col. Calvin Goddard, director of research in Northwestern Univer- sity's crime detection laboratory, predicts another major c!'iroe wave within the next few months. DOUBLE VICTORIES We are not o-f t'hi! opinion that indiscriminate a·pplause is a bene- ficial thin~. We are, neverthe.ess, pleased wrth the succesful game waged against Unio·n last week. The fact that the Garnet team could leave its home field!, leave its. home supporters and rooters, and still play good fooiball is very· signifi- cant, Especially for the team. It is clear proo.f wh-at can be done when !1 team wl!-nts to play football. It rs clear evrdence that all the noise and ballyhoo that can be drummed up is of no earthly use unless the players themselves want to play football. A team that is in there scrapping every minute bec•ause it enjoys it just for the sake of scrap- ping every minute is a victorious team. What is more important, it may not only win according to the score, but even if the scor·e be ad- Velse, it may still be satisfied with itself. And that counts greatly. Was anyone greatly disappointed at the defeat the we·ek befor·e at the hands of Gettysburg? We heard little com- ment of that nature. It is the team with a carefree spirit, with a smile on its lips, and no look of grim de- termination, nor \do or die\ atti- tude, that always come-s out of the game happy. each semester. The application of this meth- . . . od would assm·e the presence of the larg.est The only thmg Umon and R. P. I. have m part of the Student Body, thereby making common is geographical location. It is not our student opinion \'Oiced at this time something intention to advocate discontinuance of ath- more than the joke that it has been in the letic r.elations with the Troy institution, but past. we do not like their attitude when they come Wide Open Spaces .•. Blockheads ... Oomm~tnists ..• What For? Prepm·ed for Anything •. .. * * The Wealmr Sex: Pat1•iotism ... Prac- tical Art An unusual set of twins is en- rolled at the University of Cali- fornia. The girls are taking their •--------------· ~actor's degrees at the present It has repeatedly been said in these columns that the presiding officer of the meeting should be allow0d to order a motion to be tabled if he does not feel that it has been sufficiently discussed, or the facts have not been investigated to the fullest extent. We can only say once again that such a step must be taken if nm· Student meetings nre to be improved. Very often we have a meeting when there is nothing of importance to be discussed. There are t\l:o ways to remedy this situation. When there is nothing doing, don't have a meeting; or better, let there be a committee in c_harge of Student Body meetings whose duties consist of preparing legislation for the Monday session. It is seldom or never that there is not some question that could be con- sidered profitably by the undergraduates. If we had someone to plan out a course of action before meeting time, a g-reat deal more would be accomplished. No project can be a success if those in- volved do not show inte1·est. It is the opinion of many that a certain percentage of the un- dergraduate body never will care what hap- pens on the campus. It is a well-known and regrettable fact that an unfortunately large part of the college is composed of \carpet- baggers\ whose sole connection here is at- tendance at classes. It is pleasant to know that steps are being taken to eliminate this g-roup which will never be interested .in any student activity. To the rest of the coll.ege we can only say t1·y being interested in student affPirs for a while. It is a good thing to know over here because there is no excuse for sueh actions as there were Saturday and Friday night. Wide Open Spaces <® time, and had earned their roas- ter's before they were twenty and had graduated from college when they were fifteen. The night watchman at South Dakota State College has walked around the campus enough to equal a trip two-thirds around the world. BETTER * * * The football team played the best game of the season on Saturday. It is unfortunate To(} Many Cooks The Princeton football coaching that we lost, but it is highly gratifying that· staff is unique. as every member of it has been head coach at some the team showed the pep and :fight that it did. university. There are still three more games to play, and all three of them can be won. While com- parative scores mean nothing, the results of the games play.ed by our future opponents Saturday seem to indicate that almost any- thing can happen when they tangle with * * * What For? There is now in operation at the University of California a ma- chine that crushes atoms with the \deuton science's tiny but pow- erful bullet. * * * For Teaching Bloclmeads Union. Public school teachers of Phila- delphia are studying puppetry and The eleven seems to have found itself at marionettes in a special course at the Moore Institute of Art. \' * *. Depression Due to the rise in enrollment of Stanford University, the campus :sororities have to face a reai prob- lem in over-crowding. \' \' . Wheels Within Wheels Professor Cuthberton of the Uni- versity (}f Colorado has invented a French verb wheel which consoli- dates all grarnatical verb material and makes the work of learning the language much easier. * * * What About Jobs? Australian teacher-training insti- tutions pay their students 70 pounds and a round trip h(}me every year. * * * The team bt::at Union both ways. The score was 6-0, and the boys en- joy•ed the game. Whatever be the score, it is the team's own fault if it do€s not have fun. It has, in this event, no right to call itself a team. Sport is sport, not war. Never.the- less, up and ai 'em men. -Swarthmore Phoenix THE MOVIES Practical Al-t PROCTOR'S-Last times today last. The players have more confidence in * * * th I d t h . \The Bowery\ with Wallace Beery emse ves, an a t e same time are not too Prepared for Anything In the library of the University and George Raft; and' \Mary stev- f h . b of Indiana are many valuable Jap- ens, M. D.\ with Kay Frands and sure 0 t eu a ility. A little confidence is an A young married couple is anese prints which had been used Lyle Tal·bot. We have, f<>r a change, \tud · b' ·t k\ d 1 as wrapping paper. a comparatively h · \Th excellent th1'ng, but too much 1's the worst • yrng lscur -ma mg an · aw A ' \ · • news ow m e at the University of Washington. . - ssociated Collegiate Press Bo\\!'er_Y. I.t 1s_ a very g-ood picture thin!!.· that can happen to a team. ________ ..:::_:.:.:_::_:::._::.:::_ deprch~g ~rfe rn the Bowery in the ~ * * * BERG LECTURES AT YALE gay mnehes and the rivalry be- Th tween bar tenders in their fight for e support of the Student Body at the The Decline (}f Patl'iotism business. Dr. Ernst J. Berg, of the Division E game was the best we have seen for a long The twenty-three year University of Engineering, lectured at Yale RIE-Tonigbt and t<>monow of Chicago tradition of singing University for several days on \Un- \One Sunday Afternoon\ with time. Let us hope that it will continue. It is \Wave the Flag\ ended with the balanced Multiphase Systems\ be- Gary_ Cooper, Fay Wray and Neil departure of Amos Alonzo Stagg fore the graduate students in the Hanulton; also a Zane Gray story only a short distance to Williams, where the· from the athletic department. E:lectrical Engineering Department \The. Last .Trail\ with .George of that institution. 0 Bnen, Claae Trevor and El Garnet plays Saturday. The more students ·~ * * ~r~ndel.. Ex?ellent ading and sen- srtlve drrecrhng 1urn \One Sunday that go to the en 0 t th b tt S t Communists JOURNALISM CLASS Afternoon' 'into a much better show . C Ull er e e er. uppor On the Illinois Wesleyan campus than the original stage production is what the gridmen need now, and we hone this year there are four co-opera- The Journalism Class will not P¥,-OCTOR'S, Wed!. Th=. and· Fri: .1:' tive houses in which students live t t · ht Th t · . Broadway To Hollywood\ with that the.v will get it. by budget, dividing the expenses mee omg • · e nex meeting of. Jrmmy 1 , Durante ~md Madge Evans. among themselves. tbe class Will be held Tuesday. No-: Also The Mayor of Hell\ with vember 7. James Ca,g.ney and Madge Evans. ;;;;=-:; H s~ D~ i. KolE ' Tl 111 Sa1 highl tecnr lUllS neld :;corE \'nee .l.ll tm·y ln t.r. :;ene l!.ngr lll '(.l was to I1 Ill u wner roueJ team O! 1:) tnroi yara Th on d. penc l!Onl une. .llingi quar tnro· uesp er 1 on b UOWJ UOWJ pain AI door. and play ~1 I t.ney mag a dUE man taile LOI'V. M Tl Saw whe forVI ever the ~we] tacl! od, ing wne the OJ ing stro opel in t to :E driv fror. P. I ed Dai: rad ella: Eve terc 0 ton, last lmo this slee hol< 16-:y tern att~ gua ope ing bre: rec• be T fea· iarr to lan· rec lim tO VI con pla bal tun sel' hat his the mo hoi rig sue ·r P(}! LE r,T LG c RG RT RE QB LH HH FB E RP Ul'i 1 ' go~ aft me Sci ye! Wt for

in re- at al- re- is it~ es- ull ss- tic in m- as ai- in rt- a el. ss, he fi- is It ed he ay it it he he ds ile ti- he he if he he eil ge EI th THE CONCORDIENSlB, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1933 Three R.P.I. Defeats Eleven, 16 to 0; HarrierS and Frosh Win ~~----~--~~----------------------------------~----------~--~ Runs Sawyer's Long Defeat For Union Spell Yearlings De feat Basketball Candidates Out 'Ha~riers Shutout R~ P.l. Frosh, 13-7 F· F·, ·t p· t• f y . . . Engmeer Runners Varsity --- . or . Irs rae ICe 0 ear R. P. I. Cross Country Team Brown Scores 2 Touchdowns ~~==-=------------------------- Results of Football Games Of Remaining Opponents his attention to the speedy offen- F 11 B k Aft H If W As Garnet Frosh Close Year' sive break atter receiving the ball a s ac er · a ay Wl .. th Und.efea-ted Record Coach Nitchman Sends from the backboard. During the· Mark as Garnet Win, 15-40 I{oleszar Kicks Field Goal in. Third Pel'iod; Garnet Fails In Forward Pass A.ttaek · entire session Coach Nitchman, His Men Thmugh An emphasized' the importance of · g t'lle 1 block'ng whi.Ch . The Union cross country team l ·ntenst\ve Dl'I\ll Sessi'on screenin • or . ga . I • . Saturday on Alexander Field a highly-spirited .J:{,ensselaer .l:'oly- techruc eleven, aiaed by two long 1 uns by shirty J:md Sawyer and a neld goal by JaMe .t~..ole::;zar, ea•nly scorect its nrst victory over union smce 1<1:.<.~, 'bY the SCOJ.·e OI lti to U. J. illS Wa::l Llle IIlOBt ueClSIVe VIc- tOl·y rt . .1::\ • .1.. has st:ored ove1· uniOn m tne <S.l gan1es playea aurmg tne ~enes s1nt:e 1h~o, and. .is tne SlXtJL .11.11g1neer v1c:t01 y over the uarnet m \.ne::;e y.ear::;, ::;aturaay s game 'Was an b.. l:'.l. vic wry nom ::>ca.J:t to nrusn. 'J. ne oatue was ::;etueu. m tne nr::>t H\V llllll.Utes or play wnen .buu ;::;awyer, l.liSt quaLLei- nuler on tne il:tensseJaer tracK team, caught a .pu:nt nom the toe at ::>emeraa, anu pa.vect hiS way tnrougn tne bL u!l:en neld ror bv yaras and the 1n~t. toucndown Koleszar Kicks .l<'ie1d Goal There was no scoring in the sec- ond quarter, out late m the thirCi penou Koleszar mcKed a neld goal l!Onll placen-:tent on tne <SU-yaro. tme. Sa-wyer accounled. ror tue last .llingineer tally late 1n tne rourtn quarter when the Dutchmen . were tnrowmg ro1·watd passes In a uesperate attempt to score. ~::lawy­ er mtercepted one ol the passes on his own ~D-yatd line and raceo. uown the sJaelme :tor a touch- uown. .Koleszar Kicked the extra point. A .fighting Union Freshman team scol'ed a thrilling victory over the Th-ree games remain on the· R. P. I. yearlings on ;Mexander Union Varsity eleven's schedule. Field Saturday by a score of 13 to Th 1 d d h u · Spending no time on limbering- This Saturday the Dutchmen meet· 7. is game cone u e t e mon up exercises, the usual feature of Williams a:t Williamstown, Mm>s. Frosh's season in which they reg- the first practice of the season istered 2 victories and tied 0ne. Last Saturday Williams scored for game. The R. P. I. touchdown was yesterday afternoon, Coach Nelson. the first time this year when they the fi.rst tally scored against the Nitchman plunged his varsity bas- . h t · 1931 ketball candidates directly into an made one touchdown, enough to Unwn Fros eleven s smce · · . Wl ·n fro-m Tufts, 6 to 0. The Garnet led from the fi·rst intensive drill in guarding against · · t p 1 screening offensive, pivoting and Rochester, the Garnet's last home until the last quar er when R. · · reversing, and the fast break on tied the score. They then opened opponent, tost another game, this up an attack which could not be , the offensive. time to Kenyon, 20 to 6. The Yel- stopped, and pushed a touchdown Thirteen candidates, including Iowjackets were completely out- over for the victory. Their first two of last year·s lettermen, Cap- classed. Hamilton, Union's last (;)p- score was made when an R. P. I. tain Purcell Dow and Ray Me- position of the year, scored a 19 to quick kick traveled 10 yards, and Dowell, reported for practice. Sam 12 victory over Hobart, the team was returned to the R. P. I. 25 _yard . Jackson, tricky forward, who :Union defeated 32 to 0. Hobart line. Captain Ernie Brown then . earned a reputation last year as presented a surprisingly strong carried the ball over for the score, a fine passer as well as scorer, attack, and almost caught the and Joe Fagan kicked the point. will be in court togs this after- Buff and Blue off guard. Roberts Scores for R. P. I. noon. Footbal'l will keep several The Cherry and White began players from the hoop game for its drive at the beginning of the about a month. FROSH BASKETBALL Stressing drill in the fundamen- tals, Coach Nelson Nitchman, var- sity basketball mentor, conducted the first practice of the freshman basketball class yesterday after- noon in the gymnasium. Fourteen candidates spent the session in passing, pivoting, guarding and dribbling. The class will convene every day, except Sunday, from 1:30 to 2:30 p. m. All freshmen may attend and receive gymnasi- um credit. Coach Nitchman plans to have the group engage in prac- tice games with the varsity re- serves. ---a--- fourth quarter. A pass from Rob- Individual Guarding erts to Smith put the ball on the Coach Nitehman started yester- Union 10-yard marker from where day's session with a half hour's Roberts carried it over. Beclter basket-shooting, in both long and kicked the point to tie the score push-up shots. After this he had at 7-aH. his charges work on mass-guard- Sudden'ly angered by being scor- ing, a string of men guarding one ed upon the Garnet yearlings start- player at the same time. After ed a fast drive to the R. P. I. goal. some instruction in individual Liffiton, Englebardt, and Brown guarding, the cage mentor devoted ripped off several long runs, and combined with forward passes the Dutchmen crossed the goal, Brown again carrying the ball. I.; Roberts. Point after touchdown- Union: Fagan; H. P. I.: Beclrer, (both place kicl<sl. Substitutions-Union: An- gle for Campbell: Hughes for Hasl<ell: Paton for Potts, McLeod for Slnatman: R. 1'. I.: Gilcoyne for i>1urphy; l\lurphy for Gilcoyne; Kramer for Farrington. Officials-Williams, Troy High, ref- eree; Miller, Cornell, umpire ; :-!Heh- man. Union. head linesman. Time of periods-12 minutes. is widely used: in fast basketball extended its winning streak t0 four circles. straight Saturday when they de- Although much valuable material. feated the R. P. I. harriers by a is on the football squad and is perfect score, 15 to 40, on the unavailable for the present, there Union 4.7 miles course. is a number of men on the squad At the half-way mark the two who are experienced enough to, teams were evenly bunched but the furnish a nucleus for a temp0rary Cherry and White runners grad- first string. Captain Dow is a. ually dropped back, the first R. P. sturdy, scrappy guard who offsets I. man to finish coming in 75 yards any scoring weakness with his de- behind Bastedo, the fifth Garnet fensive aggressiveness. Ray Me- r,unner. Bob Gottschalk who won Dowell is a bundle of nervous the Middlebury race last week, and energy, lightning fast and danger- Gilda Mirate won the race when ous near the ·basket. Jack Moffett they finished in a tie in the fair has a smooth floor gatne and has: time of 27:33 . developed an eye for pop-shots Captain Kazmierczak and Nestle over the summer. followed their teammates across Although small in stature, Bill the line 12 seconds later. Bastedo Brandow, last year's frosh star,· came in next insuring Union of a and Tony Cioffi, are fast, shifty. perfect victory. Bradley was the and possess accurate shooting first Engineer to finish. eyes. Brandow is a clever ball-· The order of finish follow;;: handler and difficult to guard be- Runner School Time cause of his deceptiveness. Cioffi 1 Gottschall<, Union .......... 27:33 has a deadly aim for the basket 2 Mirate, Union .............. 27:33 on set shots just beyond the foul 3 Kazmierczal<. Union .. , ..... 27:45 I . H · 0 d k. k th 4 ::\'estle. Union ............... 27:15 1ne. oWJe u er If , ano er £ Bastedo, Union .............. 27:52 member of the 1936 freshman 6 Bradley, HI' I. . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . 28:06 squad, plays a dependable floor 7 Neuman, Union .............. 28:15 game. Practice is to be held every 8 Rogers, RPI ................ 28:40 afternoon at 3:30 o'clock. 9 Brockwell, Union ............ 28:41 INTRAMURAL BASKETBALL . ENTRY The group wishes to enter in the in- tramural basketball tournament and favors the round robin I method of elimination ( competition. 10 Webster, RPI. ............... 28:58 1l Breen, RPI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29:09 12 1\iik:esh. ltPI. .. , ............. 29.10 U Kern, Union ................ 29:13 14 Gregory, Union ............. 29:21 15 Wilbur, RPI. ................ 29:39 1'6 Tweed, RPI ................ 29:39 U Esser, RPI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29:54 18 Stevens. Union .............. 29:59 19 Sherman. Union ............ 30:02 20 Ross, Union ................ 30:40 21 North, Union ................ 31:20 22 Geller, RPI ................. 31:30 Scoring: UNION .............. 1 2 3 4 5-15 RPI .................. 6 7 8 9 10-40 Altnough only three plays spelleu. doom tor the Garnet, the cnerry and White outclassed and out- played them. '!·he ·noy boys made .tl nrst downs to Unions 8, but tney gained 302 yards from scrim- mage to Union's ~3. The Garnet adaed 104 yards tram 2o passes. many of which tailed. .tt. P.l. tailed to complete any of their 9 SOPHOMORE NOTICE All sophomores interested in try- ing\ out for the fall sports manager- f'hips are requested to report to Hal Wittner's office tomorrow after 1:30 p.m. The work of Jones, Engineer quarterback, was highly commend- able. He ripped off several runs, but the superior playing of the Union men ruined R. P. I.'s attacks. The Garnet line played excellent football and the credit for the vic- tory belongs to them as well as the backs who carried the ball, and Haskell, who directed the team from the quarterback post. The summary follows: l'os. t:XIOX :FROHII R.P.I. FROSH 1 :w:mm::m::mmm::::::m:mmm::m:::mm::m::m::mmm::mm:::mm:::m:mmmm:m:mmmm:mmmmm::m:m:::mmm::m:mm::::::m:m::::m:m::mmm:m: ~=.···,~=. m 1=,:==,,,~.~==,:,,,,1,,==,,= .. wrward passes. Meyer, SawyeJ.· and Suit Shine The Troy backs, Captain Meyer, SPhwar·ting; :\!uese• 1 for· Fiori: Bud- Sawyer, and Sui{ completely over-. retkr for Kolt:,;zar; Davey for H:u-rrer; whelmed Union. The light Union Union: \\'aldron for Stevenson; Crane forward line went to pieces with for Dyal; Kearns for Crane; Gulnac every Cherry attack. ;:,awyer was for Kearns: Chrysler for Rotunda: r.~J Doyle ... , .............. :.\iur!}hy LT Gatehell ................ Maffett LG Fagan ................ , .. Taylor C Barton ................. , . Myers HG l'otts ............... Farrington H1' Campbell ............... 8tttrges RI'\ Sloat man ................ Smith QB Haskell .................. Jones LH I.iffi ton ................ Roberts RH l~nglebart .............. Berl,er FB Brown ................ Kaufman the most Success ful ball carrier. He Dain for Chrysler: Burton for 11ilano; Connelly for DiLallo: Stevenson for swept around end:s ~d throug~ Waldron; Krull for Slev-en son ; KPn- Score by period,.;: tackles for long gams m every pen- drlrk for Krull. HE'feree-W. E. Dunn. 'GNION FROSH ..... ; n o o 6-13 od, but except tor the three scor- Umpire--R. F:. Corser. Head linesman ing plays, the Tro-y atta<;:k fell off -Ray Delahant. Time of perlods-15 R. P. I. Jo'ROSH ..... o 0 0 0 1- 1 when within striking distance of minutes. Touchdowns-Union: Brown 2: R. P. th~~~~~n l~tlq uarter, Union, find- ::11:::;::::-m::::;:::::-=-:::::::::::::::m:::!!:::!!::-!!!:::!!:::!!::-m::::::::::-:·::=:::-:!!:-:!!!:::!!:::!!:::!!!-!!-!!!:::!!:::!!-!!!:::!!:::!!-!!-:!!_!!_!:!_!!-!!-!!-!!!-!!-!!-:·::_!!_!!_!H_H_!!-!!!-!!-!!-!!!-!!-!!-·:!!-!!-!!-:·::-:::..m_!!_!!_!l!_},!; ing that it could do little with the m m strong Engineer line and bac~s, m m opened up its aerial attack. Tw1ce m UN 0 m i~ k~~. ¥:~ir~y;_~~ ~~~~~nil~~::~: i.i,~.=J_,· I N C·O LLEGE ~.,i~.,.=.,; drive three passes brought the ball from Union's 15-yard line to R. ::: ::: P. I.'s 9-yard line, but Rennie halt- received its name from the circumstances that several relig· ed the drive when he intercepted · d Dain's next pass. Dain and Seme- Ious enominations cooperated in its organization in I 79 5. rad threw the passes, but the It was the first non-sectarian college in the United States chance to score never developed. Every drive was smothered by in- and its charter still prohibits its control by any one church. tercepted and grounded passes . :. 1,.11:. ~ I ~ Passing Attack Fails The liberal spirit which marked its birth made Union One pass, from Semerad to Bur- · · d · 1 f D · h \d f ton, netted Union 45 yards in the a p10neer m e ucattona re orm. unng t e pres1 ency 0 · last quarter, but the next pass was Dr. Epliphalet Nott, 1804 to 1866, there was added to the knocked down by Reider. During this quarter Union tried to pull a usual classical curriculum a scientific course in 1820, in· sleeper play, but the line failed to struction in civil engineering was begun in 1828, and in !,',li,= SSTT AUDTIYOSNTEARNYD.S •• I •• I •• I • • ••••••••• 50c -. $$11..01 ~ li . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...... . ~ THE SLIPLENS, a new slide rule magnifier SOc ~~ I :~~~~~;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: .· ~~:-!~~~ II hold and Dain was smeared for a 16-yard loss befo-re he could at- 1854, chemistry was placed upon a technical basis. tempt to pass. The unsuccessful attack was not smooth enough to guarantee a score. It was wide Thus from an early date scientific and academic open football, the Union line fail- ing to keep· the Cherry men from courses have run side by side at Union College, each mak· breaking through, and the intended ing its own contribution to the intellectual life on the receivers of the passes seeming to be surrounded by R. P. I. men. campus. This was the third straight de- feat for Union, who- play at Will- iams next week. They have failed Union College together with its graduate departments to score in. these defeats. Joe Mi- lano played his first game since in Albany, twelve miles distant, constitutes Union Univers- recovering from his injury but · Th d d d h d f h limped slightly. He should prove a 1ty. e gra uate epartments an t e ates o t eir tower of strength when he has founding are: Albany Medical College, 1838; Albany Law completely recovered. Semerad played his usual high-class of -foot- School, 1851; Albany College of Pharmacy, 1881 ; and ball, whilE~ DiLallo, Dain and Ro- the Dudley Observatory. tunda gave fair accounts of them- selves. Rotunda was severely handicapped in his runs because of The undergraduate courses at Union lead to the fol- his small stature. The left side of the Union line, composed of sopho- lowing degrees: mores, lacked the punch to open holes for the baclts, ,although the right side also failed, but not to Bachelor of Arts such a great extent. Bachelor of Science The summary follows: Pos. UNION R. p, 1 , Bachelor of Science' in Physics Bachelo-r of Science in Chemistry LE I,T LG c RG RT RE QB LH HH FB Stevenson ......... vVunnenberg Greenberg .............. , .Parry Little ..................... Fiori Fox ...................... Quinn Moulton ... , ............ Harrer Dy-al , ... , ............ Koleszar Parlrer ............. Sehwarting Semerad ................. Meyer Rotunda ................... Suk DiLallo ................. Rennie l\1llano .................. Sawyer Score by periods: RPI .................•... 6 0 3 7-16 UNION ................. 0 0 0 0-0 Touchdowns-RPT; Sawyer. 2. Fielrt goai-RPI: Kolezar (placement). Point after touchdown- Koleszar (place· ment). Substltutions-RPI: Dugan for Schwarting; Conrad for Sawyer, Saw- yer for Conrad: Van Rensselaer for Wunnenhprg; Fuller for Quinn: Quinn for l!'uller; Helder fur Quinn.; l'fau for Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering The Union campus of 97 acres, overlooking the Mo- ll! hawk river and facing the Helderberg Mountains, is one of iii m the beauty spots of the country. m m !!! m m m Information regarding entrance requirements may be obtained from C. N. Waldron, secretary of Union College·, Schenectady, N. Y. II Come an!~e~~o: Y ouffielf I ill ill Administration Building iii m m i.===,,.i=.·:,,i: .. ,.,. I !!I !i m m m ::: :m:m:m:m:mm:m:m::mmmmm::mm:mm::mm::mm:mm::m:m::mmm:m::m::m::m:m:mm:m:m::mmm::mmm:mmm::mmm:::::::m::mm::::::m::':mW

Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1933 Club Thumbs Ride On Barge Canal By Robert C. North Roosevelt's Monetary Policy Not Important Domestically (Continued from Page 1) have been anything but encourag- ing. Discontent with and open op- ·PDSition to the recovery plan a·re demi:mds had become so' insistent I mand. The PI·oblem wiH be to halt tha1 some sort of action at Wash- the price tise of these commodities ington became imperative. The es- befot e they hacve become out of con- ta·blishm.ent of a :market fm gold tr ol. The Roosevelt plan of a do.Jlar independent of the worl·d market whtch will not fluctuate implies the and the goveznment offer of $31.36 end o·f the busineBs cycle. It sounds per cunce sounds· like inflation. It .s,uspiciously Hk·e an Utopian di·eam will doubtless satisfy the f:umer bu·t·even that may be w·orth a hy. and the .jnfJ.ationist for the prEsent. -----o----- A new phase of out-of-door .sports aheady manifest. The American developed Sunda,y when three mem- people are traditionally individual-. bers of the Outing Club hitch-hiked 1stic and instinctively resent any up the Barge Canal. Standing on torm of bureaucracy. With the re- the edge of lock 8, they thumbed . turn of prosperity and the passing in the approved fashion a tug of the present emergency, the \New sttuggJi.ng .upstream with .. a loaded: Deal\ philosophy of political sci- cil 'barge. The dark, unshaven ·face ence may find itself resting under ef her· young skipper appear.ed in :a. tombstone. 'l'he alternative to .:n open window of the wheel house. death will be complete control- The actua:J eHect of this policy will DANCE RECITAL AT be to keep American gold here, •de- SJIIDMORE value the do!JaT in the fou;ign ex- --- change market, force gold standard \What are chances for a ride, which implies the end of Capitalism countries· o.ff that standard, and· Ted Shawn and his male en- pave the way far the establishment semble of dancevs will be present- of an OJ!iport mar.ket in Russ~a. ep. in recital by the Skidmore Col- Since the United States is oif the·· ·l~ge Music course on Thursday gold standar·d, and since no ·one but. l}ight, November 2, at 8 o'elocJ.c · the miners· haye any gold to seil, Those wishing to make reserva- the plan is of little hr·ternal im- tions should send mail orders to Cap?\ .md the birth of Communism. Cap- por.tance. Miss Kathryn H. Starbuclc, Skid- \Good as long as you keep out .talis·m and complete control can- of trouble. Come on in where it's aot stand together. Piau \Conuhodity Dollar'' ~ore ·College, Saratoga Spring~. .1arm.\ Howev€r, the more general policy \So you boys come from Union Silent on Monetary Policy outlined by the President implies College?\ mused the skipper, as the While the administration has bus- t.hat he will resor.t to acUve infla- tug puttered upstream. \I never ·~d ·Itself with the esta·blishment tlon if the progressive devalua{ion heard of the place before. It's a .>f the recovery plan, it has been of the dollar does not result in a sma.Jl college, you say? Well, .I sup-· .m·noyingly silent on its monetary. rise of the commodity price level. .pose its smallness enhances rts ~x- · .t>Olicy. The President was given His avowed intention is the sta:bili- clmivene~s-not commonplace like ,1ower by Cong·ress early last spring zation of the cunency at a latter Harvard and Yale and such insit- , 0 inflate the currency if he should date and the establishment oi a tutiom. What couHes are you ta:k· . Jeem it necessary. With the ex- \commodity\ doHar on a geld basis. ing?\ ~eption of the government c.redit The most serious problem resulting ''Leading to Bachelor of Arts.\ extensions, no policy of direct mane- from active ·inflation, whether \Arts? Well I'll be damned! I ,ary inflation has. yet been put into through de facto devaluation of the !mew a fellow that indulged in that effect. The admin·istration has chos- monetary unit or through the is- PI ofession. He illustrated for Col- m merely to instill an inflationary suance of fiat money, w.iH be that liezs. You meet a lot of well-·known psychology in the public mind in of rest1icting in.flation in t.ime to people in this racket. Taite last the hope tha:t this alone would stirn- prevent an excessive rise of the summer as a proposition. I was cap- ulate consumers' demand in antici- price level. The initial rise will \ion of a training ship which sailed pation of a price rise. This has come only when the demand-supply j from New York to the Chicago lai'led to give results. relations,hip ma,kes it inevitable. In- l?air. We were all declced out in flation alone cannot do it. But in- 'I monl,ey suits. two hundred a month, The monetary policy announced flation may increaEe the purchaEing I COLL·EGE G 1 RILL Sandwiches and Beverages A TRIAL MARES A CUSTOMER Cor. Eastern Ave.-Jackson PI, THE ACME HOUSE LINEN SUPPLY CO., Inc; .• Rents Linen for all Occasions (You pay for Laundry Work only) 1030 BARRET ST. Phone 4-9310 and nothing to do. There was· one by the Presid··ent last Sunday eve- power o.f the consumer sufficient- fellow on board whose father was nlng is another one of those in- ly to permit the exp1.ession of the a naval officer. The ldd had been !lationary \scares.\ The farmers of potential demand in the commodity brought up at marine bases and .in the west, now on a holiday, have rna,rkets. An inc1ease of demand the substation of New London. He been demanding inflation which will result in a plice rise. This lise sailed like a man, but acted pretty they felt would cause an increase will be evident first in the sales of y=ng~~ha~rticulru~u~ilQe ~m~t~h~e~p~r~i~c~e~o~f~t~h~e~~~p~r~o~d~u~c~e~.~T~h~e~i~r~c~o~m~m~o~d~tt~i~e~s~e~n~j~b~y~~~g~a~n~e~l~a~~~i~c~d~e~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ sailors took him about. Repres- sion's a bad thing. \Well as I start~d to say, ther£ was him, and the son of an automo· bile manufacturer, and a lot of oth· er famous ones. Now I might havE become educC~ted and gone to col- lege, but I ran away and shipped to South America on a freighter Queer how you anticipate new ven- tures, and then, when you get there you're disappointed. South America wa~n·t any different than any oth- er location, except that they el- bowed Americans away from the bars. like they owned the whole world.\ The captain wiped the fog from the window in front of him and twisted the wheel deftly. \I expect to see the boss running down the bank any minute now. He spent last night at the Van Curler and wasn't up when I was ready to ~hove off. Of course, I am skipper, and he's only first mate, but ·he owns.,the tug, which makes a differ- c ncP The tug chugg·ed pa:;t a bucy anc crept ar cunu a t i vo bend. The thrcbbing of her engines was gtow· ing monotonous. \She's puffing pretty hard, now. That means we are coming into the near vicinity of a lock. There's a hundred thous- and gallons of oil in that .barge we're towing alongside. The ·boss will get five mills a gallon for hauling this cargo from Schenec- tady to Syracuse-a two and a half day trip. \This racket isn't so bad,\ he con- fided. \but one of these days I'll get sme at the boss and paste him one. There's plenty of jobs I've lost that way. Two hundred a month and board isn't so bad, but you can't save money on that; a fellow has to have a good time once in a while, and fifty bucks doesn't go far in an evening\ The captain pulled on a whistle cord and slowed up for a lock. The tug churned in between the opening gates. Leaning out of the wheel- house, the skipper shouted orders to a scuttling deck hand. \Ease 'er off fvr\aru with the f.c.nuu Llamn these gr£cn hmn kld~---heave that line over a bull noH first WEek on a tug, what can you explct-eaH off that slack!\' ··say, if you fdlow~ want a ride hciek. t hue\:; a nut hu tug cuming drJW!1 tla r·i\'<'I. Hate to H·e you go, though. Anytime )OU He the Ole Svensen, and I'm her skipper, just hop abmud \Vatch ycur-Etlp going o~hor £, new A leek i, :1· ccld bath . 1 tub\ Thr upF!rcrm gatu cp£'n<d, and I '~r· tng- ·(':l·-f'r~ in~n thr rh·rr A hun 1 rru~ Y;Jrc:o ~hovf' thr lock. hrr 1 whiofJr orrr t eel Thr Fldppf'T wnf I lP•minr rut rf hi~ whrrlhi'Uff, I g-rinning- I Missi~nary .. Expe~iences ~~ Described By Dr. Storm rcontinued from Page 1) I hdorm(>d Church. His work there 1 . has brought him in intimate con· tad with the Arabs, their habits, 1 anu their ne<·do. I~cfute attempting I \ny ml·tlkal work, he lear ned the Arabian lrlngung<>. Twii'P he ha~ 1 penetrated far into the interior, 1 whrre missionaries have never been 1 1 before. AUCHENPAUGH'S BRASS RAIL A PLACE TO MEET A PLACE TO EAT FRIED STEWED OR RAW OYST RS FIXED UP TO TAKE OUT 8 STATE STREET PHONE 2-6135 It's easy to understand why the young folks are smoking Granger ... il.i' made lo smole tit a ptpe R 0 S ·END ALE FLOWER SHOP Schenectady's TelegFaphic Florist Flowers 0 f Quality 12!1 Jay Street Phone 4-05!10 Opp. City Ha;U THE GAZETTE . P·R·ESS~ . .. . PRINTERS DEWITT'S LUNCH Opposite New City Hall 118 Jay Street The HAWTHORNE CLUB SANDWICHES and COLD DRINKS 216 Lafayette Street ST. REGIS PHARMACY Charles R. CaFey, Prop. 600 Union Street PHONE 4-1123 CHARLES' Formerly ED'S The Offl·cia:l Union College Barber. for the pa.st 24 year~. Ask any upper clas:;men, they lmow. 11 operators. Schenectady's great· est barcber. COR. STATE AND BROADWAY THE BEACON GRILL . Serving Delicious Sandwiches Fried Oysters and Clams On the Half Shell 756 ALBANY STREET \On the Crest of the Hill\ The Drug Business is Our Vocation \Quality\ Is Our Slogan BR.ANDHORST PHARMACY \On the Corner\ Union Street and Gillespie Edward H. Brandhorst, Leland E. Brandhorst, Reg. Phar. Reg. Phar. On nn<' of throp trip~ hr fnuncl n I mountain ovf'r 9,000 fePt in altitude whose shoulders were high enough to enjoy a temperate climate. On trese hillsides were fertile fields and luxuriant pasturelands quite foreign to the desert sands below them. a sensible package 10 cents Medical work in such a primitive field develops imagination and in- genuity. A missionary doctor must treat cases far from any hospitals or· modern equipment. With simple instruments he must perform diffi- cult operations. Aside from medical work, the Board of Foreign Missions has :preached Christianity and develop- ed education. Several elementary and high schools have been devel- oped from which students have been sent to manv European and Amer- Ican universities. ran © 19J>, .. c...Lrn & MYERs ToBAcco Co. -the tobacco that's MADE FOR PIPES ' c Vol. I Nf \;, .. E11 \ .. Tb Sev1 p 0 Se 10 p haVE durt of t Bun ing · Frat this the and has odd 0! evol reau :::\pe! get uent P• OB and trict will iza:ti ex:pE tere. pr·es witt Ot' [ '1'1 mad dUl'i wert 21) s for plac turn hom for stud M cult men a vel den: the in 1 of t effet pari incr den· rea1 stuc resJ gen den· sith ina! A plOJ heir Tew WO! fm· Ev l T sen hcl• In tica Fli1 org con Ler :E sen ing In cor l>er 'pai ter me at l Pa s~r Hu Wi 1 thE fot thE '34, in roc de1 me sel a

