---- .. -- .... ~ .... ---·-, · • • t D . . l · epressron 1 l Matures : Average • .r, : Collegian, : Duggan Says 1 t I ·-- ... -----~ ... ----- ll : .• \(~; · · ·~ • ' v ' I i ;··L ~L \ , I \. _: t ' S \..1 ~ - - ~ - ·- r ------- .. ! Geegraphical ; · Distribution t t • 1 of Class of '39 t 1 · U · : T'd ' ff 1 yvl est m : . 1 Recent Years : • l ·-----~-- .... -.--.....~ Vol. LIX., No.1 UNION COLLEGE, · SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 19'35 PRICE FIVE CENTS --~---.--~------~~ · = ·- =-~ ·- - ----- -= · == - = -=-~-======================================r===================== . . 1 237 Frosh From Stu.dents Puzzled As I Vnion Skips l40th Year I .. i ' ~ ·-if ~ ... i ' ' ! 1 I ' : ~ ' ·. ~ .\~ •: ~ I :~:~ 1 , . Many ~ s · · tates E . nrol The · opening of the 141st year of W. l • . th c · · lo:s:. s· of . '99, ' \In i on College cau:oed many stu- lu E> dents to leave the ceremonie::> with bewildered )nind::; and buzzing head::> Geograph.ical Distdbution of · New Class Widest in Recent Years Social Studies Popular Engineeriug, Science Group~ Also Attrad Many Students yesterday, as they debated the col- l e ge's exact age. This confusion was a re:oult of President Dixon Ryan Fox's open- i ng address, in which he stated that Union was now in its 141st year. La s t June, the 139th commencement WU$ held, and ::;ludent;; wondet ed how the 140th year could .have been . skipped . Much discussion took place . in which the League of Nationl:i am~ the international date line were mentioned but no one wa::> able to solve .the dilemma. The Concordiensi::> sent a reporter · to the Administmtion building to Representing the most extensive fenet out the 1 eal age of the col- geographical distlibution of any lege. After an interview wHh Miss other class in rccentyears, the . pres- · F1ances Travis at the Dean's Office, ent freshman body, numbering 237 it was leamed th a t the college is in registered thu 13 fm', draws its mem- its 141st year, but heading toward bership frorn 15 different states out- . its 140th commencement. The col- side of New Yotk as well as fl·om lege was founded in 1795, but that the Panama Canal zone. the first commencement did not Smaller than the class of 1938 take place until 1796. which entezed · with 249 students, -- - -a--- although registration figures are G .. ots : hall . Bequest not yet complete, the class of 193f- has. 50 men who come from outside s \ c }} the s-tate as compared to last year's urprises 0 . ege 37, and 61 local students as com- pared to last f a ll's 7 4 . The social studies div l sion on{!e more has the largest enrollment, and there have been almost a~ many students choosing the mathe- matics and. science division as in September, 1934. Only n i ne .fresh- men have signified their desire to major in the language · and litera- ture courses, while the civil and electrical e ngineering divisions have 47 'freshmen. The medical career is still the most popular choice for those enter- ing the mathematics and science division, for 49 are in the course, although there are many fewer than last year. There are 18 stu- dents taking the general course, 18 in the chemistry division, and two majoring in physics. New York is well represented in the new freshman class. The 127 students from · the Empire State come from 79 different cities and districts. Those who have regi::;t• ed are: Division of La.nguage and Literature Lou Barringer, Charleston, W. Va.; Charles W. Dunmore, Ballston Spa.; Jall\eS E. Fa11lkner, Schenec - tady; Melvin D. Lavender, Troy; John M. Malone, Schenectady; Louis E. Page, Schenectady; F. W. Paris, New York; Averill L. Stewart, Sche- nectady; .Tames C. Wade, Schenec- tady. Division of Social Studies Anthony F. Barbieri , Schenec- tady; 0. W. Baurman , Stillwater; George G. Bernadt, Schenectady; John W. Boyce, Schenectady; Sid- ney Brayton, Hartford; John W. Britten, Schenectady; Walter E. and William S. Burke, Cohoes; Richard K. Burrell, Rochester; Roger W. Busha, Waterford; Michael Cap- piello, Ne· . Haven, Conn.; Henry J. Clay, East Satauket, L. I.; Carl P. Coleman, Albany; M. F. Colllns, Mechanicsville; Eugene Coppola, Flushing; Howard A. DeGraff jl'., Johnstown; Ellis Eisenstein, Sche- nectady; Merlin S . Fay, Schenec- tady; L. VV. Roger Fowler, Hadley; Herbert 0. Fox, Schenectady: Louis deB. Gardiner, M<lDonogh School, 1\id.; Albert E. Garfinkel, Wood- mere; Douglas H. Geer, Kingswood (Continued on Page 5) Tmction Engineet·, Unknown Here, WiJis Two-Tenth.s of Estate to Union On Friday, September 13 , an Associated Press news story carried in one of the local papers declared that Union College had been en- dowed with two-tenth.s of the resid- uary estate of William Charles Got- shall, noted railroad engineer, art collector, big game hunter, and . lin- guist, who has never been connect- ed wi t h Union in any way as far as research has been able to find. Gotshall, who died August 20, also willed a similar amount to Lehigh University, and one-tenth to R. P. I. and one-tenth to Washington Uni- versity in St. Louis. Biography of the railway magnate in Who's Who stated that he a.ttended no high in- stitution of learning. Inquiry con- cerning the unusual bequest has been started, and detailed informa - tion should be•available shortly. Railway Builder Gotshall, who was born in St. Louis and who was instrumental in the construction of the electrical railway systems in Missouri, Illi- nois, Indiana, and New York, left to the State of New York his num- erous painting and works of art and his collection of rare books. Among . the individuals who received lega- cies was Frederick K. Morris of the Massachusetts Institute of Technol - ogy, who delivered one of the Spen- cer lectures here last spring. He w a s president and chief engineer of the New York and Portchester R. R. Company. Fellow of the American Museum of Natural History and the Amer- ican Geographical Society, Gotshall extended his abilities in many di- rections. His hobbies were collect- ing valuable works of art and rare editions, fencing, big game hunting and exploring. He was active in organizing and dil·ecting Near East archaeological e'Xcavations, and was well known as an athlete, especially · as expert fencer and winner of many medals with sword and saber. He also wrote and ·spoke five lan- guages, and published a text book entitled \Electric Railway Econom- ics . \ College to Record Freshman's Year By Use of Motion Picture Cameras Union College began yesterday to at Columbia University his dutie::~ record the story of a year's activ- will be carried on by Cadman His- Hies in movie film as pictures were lop. taken of. the acadell!-ic J?r.Dcession. Every phase of college activity The proJect, which 1s d1_rected by will be shown in the new picture. Edward L. Carro~l, Wlll be a The freshman's classes, his athletics graphiC} representation of the e~- and other extra-curricular activities, perie~ces of a fr~shman from hls . as well as his social life and frater- first mterview w~th the secretary nity experiences will be recorded. in regard to entrance up to Com- mencement time. Some scenes, those. of athletic Suggested a year ago by Presi- . games and geology tnps, have . al- dent Dixcm Ryan F(}X, the films are ready be~n . filmed, but the w?rk of destined to be shown at alumni taking p1ctures will be carrted on meetings and at preparatory and throu~hout the. year. The first of · high schools to students interested the ptctures this season 'Yas taken in attending Union. It will be taken ; · Y ~ esterday of ~he acad~mtc proces- oi:l 16 . mm. film, so that it can be . ~!On and opemng . exerCises. used in pc;)l'table projection rna- . In order to knit the scenes into a chines. unit, and to have a certain amount D. Richard Weelts 1 of the · Gradu- of continuity, a freshman \hero ate Councii Office, has completed George Hart, '39, of White Plains , the work of writing a scenario of · has been appoint~d to appear in the year's activities that unites all the film. of the various activities into a . Professor Edward . S. C. Smith and whole Si.llce Mr. Weelts left last ·. G. · Elliot Hatfield will be the cam- weeki to take up ~a.duate atudi~ll · e~·amen fo:r tl'.le p:rt;~!lUt:tlQD, Dining Hall And Lounges Planned In South Colonnade Academic Procession Opens 141 st Year Rah- Rah Student Is Almost Extinct, Dr. Duggan States Unknown Donor Makes Pos- sible Remodelling of Old Section Dr. l''ox States Many Faculty Changes Appointments, Resignations, · Retirement~ Are Listed At Faculty Meeting· Plans fot · the construction of a college dining hall and student and faculty lounge::; in p~ a ce of the · antiquated cia:sst ooms and musty o.ttics of South Co:o·nnade we1e an- nounced by Pt esident I>ixon Ryan Fox at the annual September meet- ing of the facu:ty Friday evening . Numeruus change~ in the adminis- trative and teaching staffs were also Hsted in the president's report. The long-needed dining hall and commons rooms· have been made possible, Dr. Fox said, by a bene- factor who prefe:s to remain anony- mous. Architectural plans for the work call for the r-econstruction of the entire South Colonnade flom · just behind Professor Waldron's home to the Old Chapel, including the Hale House. Contractor's bids are now being received. Announce Faculty Changes . Fifteen changes in faculty per- sonnel which the president an- nounced included eight new ap- pointments, five resignations, and two retirements. Dr. Burges Johnson, formerly of Vassar College and Syracuse Uni- versity , will be Professor of English. Dr. Johnson, who has been an au- thor, journalist, and editor as well as a teacher, will be in charge of Famous :Scholar Sees College Men Much More Serious · Since Depression P1·ocession Opens Year Dr. Fox Also Speaks to First Gathering of Whole Student Body Union College officially opened its classes yestet · day .for its 141st year and marked the occasion simply with the traditional opening exer- cises in the Memorial Chapel where Dr. Stephen Pierce Duggan, direc- tor of the Institute of International ' Education, delivet • ed the principal address. Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox, presi- dent of the college, noted the anni- . versa1-y and summed up briefly the recent achievements of the college . in his introductory address. Stating that college is \a place of growth and the joy of growth,\ Dr. . Fox told the students that in addi- tion to physical development they · mu::;t devote themselves to the cul- tivation of mentality and person- ality. Culling fr-om his 16 years experi- ence as director of the Institute of Many More Frosb Prize Play Opens Join Fraternities Mountebanks Year International Education, Dr . Dug- , gan contrasted the educational situ- ation in our own land with that of continental Europe, using France- which sets the standards for most of Europe-as an example. Kappa N u, Chi Psi, Delta Phi, Betas, and Sigma Chi Lead; Total Reaches 152 . \Both your Houses\ Sched- The American educational situ- . atlon, Dr. Duggan said, has ap- uled as First Pl·oduction of proached the European conditions C as a result of the economic depres- ampus Theatl·e sian. \The number of positions in the field of English. From Oberlin comes Dr. George H. Danton, to be Professor of German. Dr. Patterson H . French, former secretary of the Board of Labor Review of the PW A, is the new Associate Profes- sot• of government. Douglas W. Campbell, Ph. D., will be Assistant Professor of government, coming to Union from a position of instructor at Princeton. almost all the higher ranks of serv- ice has greatly decreased· and the Nineteen of Union's fraternities T1-youts tonight and tomorrow competition for the remaining rela- had pledged 152 men this fall by night for Maxwell Anderson's Pulit- tively few has become as fierce as Monday night from the classes of zer Prize-winning play, \Both Your in France.\ 1939 and 1938, an increase of 36 Houset~,\ herald the approach of an over the number pledged last year enlarged and busy Mountebanks \It has not resulted, however,\ at this time when only 116 students season on the campus. Four major continued Dr. Duggan, \in a dim- had accepted pins of the Greeks. productions instead of the usual unition In the number of those at- GeorgeS. Raser, Ph . D . , formerly a teaching fellow at Harvard, will be instructor of French. Allan Scott, Ph.D., has been appointed instruc- tor in Biology; George E. Fiedler, E. E., instructor in electrical engi- neering; and C. Regis Michaud, M. A., instructor ad lntetim in French. Kappa Nu led the list for the · three are already planned and the tending American colleges. This is secol;ld consecutive year with theatre has been put into perfect partly due to the fact that the de- twelve neophytes, while Beta The- working condition for the activities pression has been so deep and gen- ta Pi trailed close behind with ten of both the Mountebanks and the era! that tnere is practically no al- new men. · Chi Psi and Sigma Chi new course in Play Production. ternative. There are few jobs even followed with ten each and Delta Director Edward L. Carroll hopes of an inferior kind. Phi and Alpha Phi Delta each ac- to follow \Both Your Houses\ with Americans Optimists quired nine pledges. Sophocles's immortal tragedy, \Moreover Americans are born Five Resign from Faculty Resignations from the faculty in- clude: Ira B. Hansen, of the field of biology, to become Assistant Profes- sor in George Washington Univer- e.ity; Edwin W. Hamlin, of the elec- trical engineering department, to be Assistant Professor in the Univer- sity of Kansas; and Robert Rienow, instructor in political science, to ac- cept a fell<;>wship at Ohio State Uni- versity. Ellsworth Missall has re- signed from the field of political science to take a position on the staff of the magazine \Today and James Brewster, librarian, will leave October l, to become Assistant Connecticut State librarian. Kappa Nu has pledged: Arby :·oedipus Rex\ and other plays be- optimists. The young men in our Halpern, New York City; David mg considered a;e a revival for the colleges expect a change for the Yunich Albany· Max Len Kings- first time in thts country of John better to take place and they want ton; ETIIis Eisen'stein, Sche~ectady; H~~ard Pa:,;ne;,s comedy,. \Charles to be prepared for the change and Bernard Krause, Schenectady; Har- II ~ .¥oliere s Th~ Imagl~ary In- the chance · that may .come their vey Handelman Schenectady· vahd • and Nlcolal Gogol s satire way. The result has been that dur- Stanley Liebman' Poughkeepsie~ on beaurocracy, \The Inspector- . ing the past five years college life Myer Reis Schenectady· Ala~ General.\ An original play, \Master- has become characterized by a con- Wrana, Ne~ York; Jerry' Smith, piece,\ by Robert J. Schultz, '36, Is ::>tantly increasing seriousness of Albany; Irving Nelich, Troy; and also under consideration. purpose. While attention to things . Herman Finkelstein Schenectady Although with the four produc- intellectual does not compare with. of the Class of 1939: ' tions a s~ason subscription for out- France, it has become quite pro- alders Will cost $4 . 00, it was voted nounced. 'I'he rah-rah boy has al- at a meeting of the Executive Com- most disappeared, Fernand Jagu, and Robert W. Crowell, both of the field o.f modern languages, were retired during the The Beta Theta Pi pledges are: Frederick Cane, Waban, Mass.; H. William Derriclt, Buffalo; Douglas Geer, Hartford, Conn.; Franklin Frederick, Lynbrook; Sumner Irish, Port Jervis; John Maxwell, Hart- ford, Conn.; Albert Knight, Niag- ara; Philip Shew, Gloversville, Howard Smith, Plainville, Conn.; Roland Twining, Binghamton; Carl Sanderson, Seneca Falls, all of the class of 1939. summer. Chi Psi Pledges Ten Ellery Div'Jsion Cl1a.irma.n Chi Psi announces Donald Administrative changes which Dr. Thompson, Glenridge, N. J.; Don- Fox announced were: the appoint- ald Glenn, Menands; Ch~rles New- ment of Dr. Edward Ellery to the land, Menands; William O'Connor, chairmanship of the Division of Holyoke, Mass.; Douglas Murphy, :Mathematics and Science, taking Passaic, N. J.; Scott L. Smith, the place of Dean Charles F. F. Poughkeepsie; Otis Havens, San- Garis; and the appointment of Rus- derstown, R. I . ; James Kyle, Rye; sell A. Hall, M. S., co-chairman with Donald Hill, Upper Montclair, N. Dr. Ernst J. Berg of the Division of J.; George Stewart, Nutley, N. J.; Engineer i ng. all members of the class of 1939. Charles T. Male, M. C. E., has Sigma Chi has pledged: William been named :Assistant Comptroller Filkin, Troy; and Roger Burgess, of the college and Assistant Pro- Huntington, West Va.; of the class fessor of Mathema:tlcs. Edward S. of 1938, and Robert Dunn, Buffalo; C. Smith, Professor of geology, and Philip Mitchell, Glenham; John Frederick A. Wyatt, assistant to Stewart, Watertown; W. Vaughen the secretary, have been appointed · Alexander, Stamford, Conn.; Rob- proctors of South and North Col- ert Lamberson, Albany; Lon Bar- leges respectively. ringer, Charleston, W. Va.; Gerald Three on Leave Crosby, Ossining; Robert Controy, Three faculty members have been Pittsfield, Mass.; of the class of granted leaves of absence for the 1939. year 1935-36. Philip E. Mosely, in- · The Delta Phi pledges are: structor in history, is now study- Kr.aig Miller, Boston, Mass.; Le ing in Bulgaria under a fellowship Roy Walbridge, Saratoga; Clarence from the Social Science Resea:rch Powell, Middletown; Paul S. Hum- Council; Rowland 'M. Myers, of the phrey, Ballston Spa; Everett Ful- field of mod · ern languages, now ler, Schenectady; :Robert S. Hinc- studyirtg in France under an Amer- kel, SchenectadY.; Thomas Burke, ican Field Service 'fellowship; and Rochester; Robert Bruce, Roches- D. Richard · weeks , instructor in ter; Clyde Graves, Albany, all are English, who will study at Col'!lm- freshmen. bi~ VPW~J'Illity. . (CoJLtlnue4 Dn l'a.Jit Ci) mittee last night to extend a 25 per cent r~duction to the · faculty and \Sports fortunately, hold their the college staff. Their subscrlp- place. I say fortunately because tions will be $3.00. they afford a relief from the anxiety The most important innovation in and discoaragement that have so the theatre has been the removal of frequently accompanied the depres- the recently completed switchboard sion. from the stage sUrface. Robert M. \The refusal of the young Amer~ (Continued on Page 5) (Continued on Page 3) Scotch Exchange Student at Union Much Impressed by America's Size By WALLA.CE T. FOOTE \One of the things that has im- When asked .if he had met pressed me most in the United . Ge()rge Haskell, who has been sent States is the size of the country,\ by Union to study at St. Andrews, said Clark Beckett, exchange stu- Beckett replied that he had not, be- dent from St. Andrews University . cause of Haskell's departure for in Scotland. \In Scotland, one can England in August, where he will walk from one end of the countr:y travel before going to Scotland. to the other In a few days time. \I'm sorry I didn!t have the op- One's ideas of distances and space < portunity of meeting him. I feel are changed after he has been in sure we c<>uld have given each the United States only a few other so10e useful tips.\ He had hours.\ not found, however, any radical Beckett is the student who was differences between the people and chosen by the Scottish university customs ()f the United States and as. the recipient of the exchange Scotland. \In June, Dr. Fox as- scholarship inaugurated last year su1 · ed me in a letter that I should between Union and St. Andrews. find Americans enough like the A resident of Fife, he completed ' Scotch to feel at home, and still his course at St. Andrews last June, discover enough variation to make graduating with a B. S. degree in It interesting. I find that he is Physics. After a year of study at perfectly right.'• The letter to Union he will return and take a which Beckett referred said in post graduate course in Scotland . part: \I think you will enjoy your It );las . been arranged that during year with us in the States. Living his stay at Union he eat at various abroad f<>r a time helps one to un- fraternities, thus aifording him in- derstand and app!'eciate one's own creased opportunity to become ac- country. We are enough like the quainted with the . college and the Scotch so that you'll feel thorough- etudentB, (Continued. on Page 5)

,, ·~ ~ ! l Fomr THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1935 Seven Lett:rmen Ret~m to Varsity-,. I•NTRAMURAL ATHLEncs 1 Appoint :f\'lanagers Squad, Twenty-SIX Men Reportntg With the fraternity houses once Of Spring Sports Eleven X-country Men Report to Coach Ketz With eleven men reporting for· the varsity cross-cour;try te~m, Coach Wilfol'd Ketz rs runmng them through routine work and ·cross,country jogs. The men ha~e s·hown up especially well for this time of the season and although 'in soft condition, they are expec- Changes Made In Managerial Posts By Athletic Board , <e- more returning to normal condi- tions after the strenuous efforts of Six the past week, attention Is being fo-' cused on the coming Inter-fraternity contests. Athletic managers of all fraternity and .group teams will be required to file a written entry for· their team for all sports fostered by Juniors Are Successful In Competition for Managerships Line Receives Six Veterans; Hatfield Concentrates On Backfield Appointed Assistan~ To Coach Ratfield The results of the Spring sports ted' to round into shape •long be- managerial competition, as an- fore the opening encounter with nounced by Professor Harold Witt- Ve 1 ·mont University on Saturday, Competition Under Direction Of Manager of Sport Involved By HYMAN ENZER the department if they wish their team to compete. Adequate notice \No football squad under my di- .rectlon at Union has shown such fighting spirit and energy as the small one I )1a ve this season,\ af- firms Head Coach Hatfield in reply to the numerous critical queries on the status of the Garnet varsity. \ And his statement is being proved daily by the members of the 23-man I squad, who, in a little more than a 1 week and a half have progressed 1 far in play practices. will be given each event at the proper time by the Athletic Depart- ment, Touch Football Entries for the Intra-mural Touch l<~ootball team will close Monday, September 23, at 5 p. m. The ath- letic managers of each team must file a written entry with the De- partment of Physical Education and Athletics and sign his name to the entry. The cooperation of all man- agers is asked since no post-entries will be acceptable. Announcements concerning the schedule will be issued from the Department subse- The outloolr for the 1935 grid sea- son seemed rather cold and bleak in the middle of the summer when a long, funereal-looking list of In- eligibles was sent to the varsity coach from the Dean's office. But things began to brighten up after· the first few practice ses::;ions In September when mourning wa:,; over. ·quently. Scrimmage Early ARTHUR C. I.A WRF;NCE Getting into shape. learning the new plays, and actually going through practices occupied the small group of 17 men who reponed on September 4. Slowly but surely the squad grew in size to 23, enough Arthur C. Lawrence, hitherto for two full team~. Coach Hatfield line coach of the varsity- football with his newly appointed assistant, team, wa:,; appointed as::;ist.ant Art Lawrence-, former Purdue cen- coach of varsity football, coach of ter, has been enabled with the small varsity hocltey and dh· ector of squad to hasten the conditioning :;pring intramural athletics, it vtas and fundamental early practices. announced recently by the office of Last year at this time the team had the Department of Physical Educa- held its first scrimmage only three tion and Athletics. days before the opening of college. Lawrence, who with CecHCantrill The first varsity scrimmage this assisted Coach F, Elliott H:atfield in term came more than a week ago. I ~raining the line, was an outsta.nd- Of the seven varsity lettermen mg member of the PurduE Univer- who returned to the squad, »ix are 1 :;ity football team of a few years linemen and will constitute the nu- ago. Playing center, he was award- cleus for a strong forward. Captain ed his varsity letter three times, in Charles Krull, fleet-footed tackle, ll931 and the two years follow'ing. who has been u10ed by Coach Hat- As coarh of varsity hoek.ey, he field during the past two weeks in will succeed Leonard B. Clark and the backfield, will play where he is H. Laurence .Achilles, :mem!Jers of most needed. However, the only let- the faculty who volunt eet-ed to terman in the backfield so far is coach the student team. Et•nie Brown, 170 pound junior. ' Last year's freshman team con- tributed little to the varsity squad because of the numerous scholastic ineligibilities. Those who have been out for practice thus far have been Vincent Smith, Herman Greulick,, Van Ladd, and Newton Ritchey. With his major worries in the backfield, Coach Hatfield has been ~once.ntrating his efforts in bring-~ mg his baclts up. to the high stand- ard of the line. Brown, who played fullback last season and who did some kicking, I may have that difficult task this I year. Emery Burton, co-captain of the traclt team, won his aUa on the! team which Chip Dain and Ralph i Scmerad helped build last season.' Dick Woodruff, whose playing has been an undeniable a::;set to the spirit of the team, may be callino- the signal<> this term. ., The resl of the backfield duties falls to three inexperienced but 1 promising candidates. Howard Van II Epps, 170 pounder who showed great possibilities on the squad last I year but was forced to drop before I the season open~d becau~e of th<' press of work, i10' being lined up as i a potential half-back. Henry Duch- scherer, who was a member of the I varsity squad in his sophomore I year, was unable to play last fal.l. He has some ability as a kicker and II will probably be called upon often during the season. Duane LeTarte, 180 pound back, played guard on I the 1933 freshman eleven. Coach Hatfield hopes to d,evelop him into a good backfield man, since he is 1 aggressive and fast. · ''etl'ran Ends I Te1mis Regulati«JI~ 1. All players MUST wear 'TEN- NIS SHOES with soft pliable soles·. {Basketball and other types of shoes are not accept- able.) 2. Students and Faculty only shall be permitted the ttse of the courts. 3. Doubles should be played whenever possible so as to in- sure use of the coutts to the maximum number of playe.rs. 4. If persons are waiting to play, both singles and de>ubles matches are to be perJ:Ditted to finish their set before vacating. In the event that the set goes to deuce, play shaJi stop at once. 5. The tennis courts will cbse on week-days at 6:00P.M:. 6. Pia~· on Sunday shal'l l>e re- stricted to the hours o:f 1 p. m. to 5:30 p. m .. and all players must be dressed in a CLEAN WHITE COSTUME. 7. Workmen engaged In rE!Jair- ing or marking the ee>urts are to be permitted to cornplete their task before play can start. 8. The caretaker shall be sole judge 3\1 to the use of the courts after rainy we11.ther. 9. Children of the Facul:ty Me-m- bers shall be permitted the use of the courts if any ar>E vacant but NEVER to the exci11sion of the two above named groups. 10. Use of the indoor court on the gymnasium floor wlli he re- served for the var~lty squad when inclement weat:lter pro- hibits their practice outdoors. 11. Violators of the above rules will be denied the privilege of using the courts. At the end position the Garnet mentor has his choice of six pass I i'eceivers. Van Waldron, second high scorer for the team last year, should be a potential scoring factor for the Dutchmen again. Joe Milano, let- terman and captain of the basket- L-----------------1 ball team, will probably hold his regular berth on the line, although Jim Marotta, who reported for prac- posts. Newt Ritchey, a.nd Duke tice early this month instead of his Fenton. who was on the squad last usual time at the opening of col- year, will probably do resewe duty. lege, has given serious promise of The center of the line v.rhich has .becoming first team material. Herm proved the most difficuH gap to Greulick and Vincent Smith, ends strengthen, depends upon Paul for last year's freshman team, and Campbell, who rose from third- Homer Swart, senior and veteran string center to varsity la.st fall lacrossman, are the remaining through unfor5een losses, Ladd and choices for the wing positions. Ritc-hey. Conrh Lawrenreo. who A veteran group of tackles, Char- passed the ball at cente:r on the lie Krull, Frank Gatchell, and John Purdue eleven for three yeat·s, has Sloatman, bodes well for the Garnet been contributing his valu.:able prac- line. All three have earned their let- tical experience in devel.oping the ters and have proved their worth center into a stronger position. under fire. The latter two are jun- Three add! tlons to the Carnet iors and will probably see service I varsity yesterday aftern.oon have another year for enion. Art Bull· rniHed thP number on the growing ard, veteran of the varsity squad squad from 23 to 26. Jack Smith for the past two years, and Van husky junior and star of tast year'~ Ladd, who was lineman for the varsity lacrosse tea:m, Ha.l'Ol<i Ack- frosh, are the other possibilities for erman, and Art Breymale l', both in tackle posts, the sophomore class, re!>Ot'ted for Union's opponents will find a their first practice this seascn. tough set of guards facing them FROSH X-COUNTEY C?ach Wilford Ketz is especially anxiOus to have all fresh:men \Who are interested in the freshman Rather than conduct the activity on the round-robin basis as last year, it is deemed advisable, because of the limited facilities available, to conduct the competition on an elim- ination basis. Fall Tennis Intra-mutal Fall Tennis entries will close on the same day as the football entries. Each co11testant is requested to file .his written entry with the Athletic Department be- fore the elapsed time for entry ac- ceptance. No post entries will be accepted by the department. The tourney will be conducted on an individual rather than a team basis, with contestants supplying their own rackets and balls for all matches. ----01---- Vnion's Rival Elevens Rounding Into .Shape By MILTON D. BEDELL Hobart's football team is round- ing into ;;hape after two complete weelts of practice. Coaclt E. B. <Speed) Wilson is well satisfied with the turnout of 35 men having reserves for every positio-n on the team. Wilson has shifted Chink Babcock, last year's flashy frosh center, to the backfield and expects him to be one of the mainstays of the team. Jack Bowling and Robert Cullen, thorns in Old Union's sides. last year are being used alternately at quar- terback. Wilson has made no state- ment as to who will get the prefer- ence for the position. • .. * Hobart meets two of Union's rivals on the gridiron !this year, Hamilton and Rochester. * * * Over 50 candidates have reported to Coach Richard Larkins at the River Campus. Larkin is starting his first year as coach at the Uni- versity of Rochester. He was for- merly frosh coach at Ohio State, * * * And did you know that ten vet- 1 crans will return to the Roche;;ter team. The same formidable back- field which bewildered the Union team last year will return intact with McCulley at quarter, Nord- bux g ,?nd Babcock at the halfback po10ition.; and Buyse at fullback. * * • Rocheste1· meets fom· of Union's opponent;; this year; Amherst. Ham- ilton, Hobart, and Wesleyan. * * • Did You Rnow That Dr. Edward Ellery was one of Colgate's star football players in 1890? * * ~ That 10 years ago the football out- fits. weighed 22 pounds while today they average around 8'72 pounds? * • • That Jack <W. C. Fieldsl Kearns now a senior, has reported for foot: ·ball after an absence of one year. He was a letterman in his sopho- more year. . .. . That the following hasn't much to do with sports but it's an example of what was printed in the Con- cordy many long years ago- College men want their women to be like cigarettes; Just so many, all sle11der and trim In a case. Waiting in a row~to be select- ed, set aflame And discarded, More fastidious men prefer women-like cigars; They are more expensive· -look better and Cost less. If the brand is good, They aren't given away. Good men prefer their women Like pipes; And become more attached to them The older they grow. When the flame is bumed out, they still look After them, knock them gently, (But laughingly) And care for them.always. No man shares his pipe. OUTING CLUE every game this year, for there will be a choice of several husky linemen for Hatfield to build the center of 'his line. Bill Potts, lanky Bloom- Jield junior, John Kearns, husl{y 180 pounder who played in his sopho- more term, and Jimmy Riggs, who improved greatly last season when he played his first football, are the best potentialities for the guard cross-country team to rep<>tt to. There will be a meeting- of the him at the gymnasium as soon as Outing Club tomorrow at 7:&0 m possible. Experlt'!nce in cross- Silliman Hall. Anyone interested is country running is not nec:ess.ary. invited to- attend. ner, include six juniors and an October 12. equal number of sophomores. Of The eleven candidates who have the juniors, the following were elec- 1 eported for work !l.l'e Ed Bastedo, ted in the order !named chasing the Jen'Y Neumann, Bob Everest, Russ position indicated. Bullard Cia- Knox, Sam Hewett, Henry Hudson, croo;se), Reynolds (track), Marotta Hany Meyers, Bill Hawks, Bo~ !baseball), Sherman (Tennis), Me- Denzler and Frank Laurenskt. Two Men To Be Selected At Close ·Of Each Season Two Candidates Selected BY Committee Manu::; (Frosh lacrosse), and Eff- ' d h'l ron !Frosh baseball). Everest is new to the squa , W 1 e Arthur A. Bullar·d, a member of Hudson was on ·last year's frosh By action of the Athletic Board Beta Theta Pi, came to Union ftom team. at their meeting on June 5, 1935, the Stormville where he attended Ar- Practice started· on September ~ystem of electing managers for <the lington High School'. He is a mern- 9 with the squad dog-trotting a- various athletic teams was again re- ber of Eta: Kappa Nu, honor stu- bout a mile. The following three vised, dent, and played football in his days sessions wet:e held morning Competition wiU be held each sea- freshman and sophom 01 -e years.· and afternoon. In these prelims, son and will be conducted under the Forrest w·. Reynolds, Elmira, at- Meyers, Knox, Bastedo and Hew- direction of the manager of the tended the Elmira FI•ee Academy. itt have been leading the boys in ~pol t involved. The single excep- He is a member of the Sigma Phi with the rest of the squad close uon to this will be with the swim- ft aternity and the Mountebanks. behind. Distances of the runs have mmg team. Candidates wHl be ac- Now Treasurer of the A. s. c. E. been varied from day 1o day, rang- cepted fi·om the sophomore class at c American Society of Civil Engi- ing from a jaunt about the cam- the beginning of the ;;eason. The neer;;) and an honor student pus to 4 1 _ 2 mile runs and six-, proficiency of each candidate, both James V. Marotta entered colleg~ · mile walks. junior::; and sophomores, will !Je from Scotia High School. Has, noted by the manager to be used in played football in his freshman. Time trials wete held on Satur- the final selection. and sophomore years. Roger D. day with Bastedo turning in the At the finish of the respective Sherman prepraed for Union at best time. Hawks, Knox, Hewett, season10 a committee wiU select two Briarcliff High School, Briarcliff,. Neumann, Evere:;t, Notth and candidates to continue as assistant New York. He is affiliated with Hudson all crossed the finish line managers during their junior yeats. the Delta Upsilon fraternity and is within two minutes of the leader. The manager will be selected from a member of the Outing Club. Be-' Meyers was unable to run in these these two candidates at the end of sides these activities he ha:s been a first trials. the next season. The unsuccessful mmeber of the Mountebanks for· Coach Ketz expects to put the candidate will automatically become two years and ran on the freshman, team through a few more days of manager of the freshman team, ex- and sophomore cross-country teams. preliminary training and will pos- cept in track in which case the un- Alvin J. Effron matriculated · 1 successful man will become man- from Poughkeepsie, New York and sibly hold his second time trm s ager of swimming. is now connected with the Phi this week. For the benefit of all prospective Sigma Delta fraternity. Robert J.: -- --~o-- --- candidates, .Article II of the Gon- f:1~Manu~,tapptlearingd· on the Db ean's Sq·,uad of 40 Fr.osh· stitution as amended is printed in Is cons1s en y an a mem er of . . its entirety. the Mounteba:nks, prepared at Nott Terrace High School. p t• • D \} In the sophomore competition, rae ICing ai y the following :;ix, alphabetically ar- ranged, were elected: Everest, Friedman, Galuten, Horstman, Reeves, and Ring. Robert D. Everest, member of Delta Upsilon, prepared for college at the Gloversville High School. He has been an active member of the Student Council, member of the Sophomore Discipline Committee, Freshman Lacrosse, Philomathean Debating Society, and is now on the varsity cross-country squad. Pre- paring at Nott Terrace, Harold A. l<~riedman a member of Phi Sigma Delta, is a member of the band Garnet Goblins, and Mountebanks: Robert Galuten, New York City, and affiliated with the Phi Sigma DellS> fraternity, prepared at the Mackenzie School. Erie, Fa., sent Union Walter L. Hot stman. He pre- pared at Strong Vincent, and is a member of the Psi Upsilon frater- nity. David J. Ring entered Union from the Catholic Brothers Acad- emy, Albany. He belongs to the Philomathean Society. He appears on Dean's List for scholarship. Charles H. Reeves prepared at St. Josephs Academy where he wa.:; an outstanding student. He has ap- peared on the Dean's List con::;ist- ently, and is a member of the Philo- mathean Society and Mountebanks. In his sophomore year he was one of the delegates to the Model League of Nations. Reeves is a member of Delta Upsilon. ----o---- FOOTBALL TICKETS Stud~nts will be required to pro- cure tickets for their seats in the Cheering Section for each varsity game. These may be obtained by presentation of the \Athletic Tick~ts\ at the gymnasium office. Admtttance to the Cheering Section will be denied to all non-holders by the ushers. Students must show both their ti~kets at the gate to the ticket- takers. - ----{)----- ATHLETIC TICI\.ETS The issuance of the Athletic tickets will be made from the stock rool? in the basement of the Gym- nasiUm between 1 p, m. and 5 p. m. upon presentation of receipt from the Bursar showing that the appli- cant has paid his athletic tax or that its payment has been arranged for. FROSH GYM EQUIPMENT Frosh Gym Equipment will be is- sued fl'om the Gymnasium Stoci•- room between the hours of 1 p. m. and 5 p. m. upon presentation of the Bursar:·s receipt. Lockers will also be asstgned at this time, upon pay- m_ent of one dollal' deposit which wtll be refunded in June. 01----- USE OF GYM . ~h: gymn~sium floor having been 1 ef~mshed, rt is necessary that a st~tct observance of the rules per- taming to its use be adhered to T~1e wearing of clean rubber s~led' shoes is required of all Violators of this rule 'will be per- manently excluded from the use of the facilities. The swimming pool will be open from 3 p. m. to 5 p. m. every week- day except Saturday. Lai'gest Group in Three Years Reports to Nitchman; Many Experienced Aft~r waiting a year for a de- pendable and fair-sized football squad, Coach Nelson Nitchman was rewarded for his patience last week when 40 freshman candidates re- ported for the fi.rst grid practices. Not only was he rewarded with a large squad, but also with a group which had many experienced play- ers. The first four days of drilling were spent in conditioning the squad in the necessary fundamen- tals of college football. Nels put his charges through .the fundamen- t~! st•lges of blocking, ball hand- hug and defensive tactics on the line. Because of the large number in the ft·osh contingent, the varsity is bound to find sufficient opposition during the next two weeks of pre- seasonal practices and scrimmages. The heavy frosh team will be al- mo~t. as good as interC\ollegiate com- petition, at least in the essentials and fundamental~ of the gam<'. PractiC'es are being held daily by the freshmen on the Graduate Council field. The men who are on the squad are: Jacob Amazon, Joe Annese, Wally Baker, Walt and Bill Burk.e, Tom Burke, Dick Burrell, Berme Carroll, Fred Came, Bruno Czech, Gen_e Coppola, Lou Comenza, Loe Dwyer, Ralph Denton, AI Gar- finkel, Bob Garnett, Herb Grant, Do1_1 He1_1derson, Sum Irish, Walt Mates, _D1ck Masterson, Ralph Mor- gan, Jtm Mulcare, Gordon Morse Jack Ma..'\\:'ell Doug Murphy, Jack Pa~mer, Btll Pauley, Jack Porter Phil ~hew, Doug Stevenson, Bili Thomas, Jack Trumbull, Fred Tow~send, Howie Van Keuren, Paul Teare, James Kyle, Joe Paul, Vin- cent Dugan, and Pete Owens. \Freddie I've got a proposition to malt~ to you. You take one of these signs. and put it in a spot where, every freshman can see it, and Ill tutor your lacrosse candi- dates _next spring if necessary.\ The bargam struck between fre,;hman football coach Nelson Nitchman and freshman lacrosse coach Frederick Wy~tt has not yet been completed but tt has borne results this fall f ' the football coach. or f .T~e first day of t egistration when -t es. men were in their most sus ~=k~t~l~;~ge, ~vez:y pt·ecaution wa~ s _oac Nttchman to make ure that ttte members of '39 k ~~e~~ewas a freshman football t~:: N ·t h campus. No small squad for I c man this t . E of the eollPge a~~mFt·e;Jry co;n~r ?esk in the front hall of th Wya~t s Istration bu'ld; e admm- for \Fresh t mg, echoed the call 0nly,\ man Football Candidates to ~~e~en candidates had reported tlon ~~s~~!~~~~e~ea~~ 1 1~ft~:g~~i~~- noon, the frosh coach knew h.- ~~ir~~~r::'asua ~uccess. A total ~~ ~or .equipmelt ~~~~ Pa~ys~cpaplearance mat10ns. exam\ Although he t h' Coach Nitchma go ts large squa,d, minor diffic·ult~se~~untered s~me started. The pres en practices Bill Burke CohoesentWlc~ of Walt and ' ns who would Al'ticle II Section 1. Competition for assist- ant manager~hip:o shall be held each season and shall be conducted un- der the dil:ection of the manager of th_e spot·t mvolved except in swim- mmg. At the beginning of the sea- son ha shall issue a call through chapel announcement The Concor- diensis, and through the various fraternity and club houses for can- didates from the sophomore class. It shall be the duty of the manager to lreep a record of the proficiency of each candidate which is to be used in the final selection. He shall also. keep . a similar record of the Jumor assistant managers. Section 2. At the end of the re- spective seasons a committee com- posed of the Dit ector of Athletics the Dean, the Head Coach, th~ Manager and the assistant man- agers <the two assistant managers shall have one-half vote each) shall select two from the candidates who shall continue as assistant man- agers of track the head coach and manager of swimming shall also have :;. vote. Each member of the committee shall vote for two men. Sec.tion 3. At the end of the re- specttve spott seasons a committee cOI;nposed of the Director of Ath- letiCs, the De:in, the Head Coach the Manager and Captain (the cap~ tam maY_ be guided in his vote by d_eterminmg the opinion of the ac- ttve members of his squad) shall elect one of the two assistant man- agers to serve as varsity manager. The unsuccessful assistant manager shall automatically become man- ~ger of ~he fr~shman team except m track m whtch instance he shall ~~?orne manager of swimming. (In ts case the two assistant man- agers of track shall serve as assist- t ahnttmanagers of swimming during a season). t Sectio~l 4. In the election of the wo assJstant managers each suc- C'es~fu} candidate must receive a maJOri.ty vote of the committee, SectiOn 5. The awards for all ~an~gers shall be made at the be- g~nnmg of their senior year and ~a~l ~fe {~e same ~s for the cap- serve e sport m which they as . t ast manager except that the sts an man \aUa\ h t agers shall all receive ju . a sat the beginning of their . m?r ye~r and the managers shall t rhec?tve l~fe passes at the end of etr semor year. w~e!i~~r~ of the sophomore class . 0 compete for the mana- fertal positions of the FaH sports earns are requested to report to Profess<;>r Wittner's office in the gymnasmm at once. test even the d · t' . . ties of a 1 hts mgutshmg capaci- some con;u~~~n' proved a source of Nitchman · h apart whe np~!~~- . e can tell them but when th !_cmg against them, turf he ft ey lle tangled on the 0 en takes a h h d guess as to wh· h ap azar on the 1 tc one was at fault the f P hay. Besides Walt and Bill Burk:esTmanb squad has anothet• · ' om Y name and t tr'i§~~enor :;r. relative of his ma~~s. a this ear';lmque names crop up in low ~arne~ sduad. There is one fel- a loyal m brnett who should be Ralph More~ ~r of the team. .A and if he fa n ts also on the squad, sake acts,P h:ss~s ~11 as his name- popular regular. oln prove t~ be. a. mg evidence of b ~azon rs glv- terial for the f ecommg star ma- Sum Irish is bou~dht ebleven, whlle o e a success, HigherE( Takes 1 \:A college stude: .,.. the mast of .his or come -a cultured i as -a self,sustainii 11 ve in tltree laye present, and the times during his said :b r. Larrab philosophy, in th< chapel ex.ercises ''Higher educatio: two main directio .pe:rt knowledge o ·; and' a:t that much ed 'general cultur \:b.ixpert know!E one thing, each oi a wo1·ld as specia the acquiring of i of th.e attainment gree of general c velop.ed in college by cultivating th< without spending In any one of thE \It 'has been m~ that few college ~ alive to what is present world ab• the past; and ::;thl than to the prese Our present, : · Larrabee, is ext1 even though it i d.istasteful aspec ·economics and we a.nd -we must avoi ing com-pletely ol \And so I say t• calloused with go< ii ve in the rich I sent with the sar: standing which ; Crusades or Gres. .that you will ha thing besides the the movie magazi one newspa·per c: oughly each day, : that disagree wi manage.\ As tor the fut says that \certa more utterly fatu that the future itself.\ We our own future by t we live in the fut \If we want a fu plenty, we have l in and· planning futu1·e now.\ Sct~tch Exch Is lmpresse£A (Continued ly at home, an< var•lation every interesting.' Beckett went ' asmuch as he educational inst was a child, it 1 usual not to seE round the Union assured by sever however, that was near enougl up for Union':; line_ \On the , the few .Americ so far are as a as those in Sco before I left hor erlcan girls wer ferred to as 'gol anything but th: change my idea: pletely.\ In reply to tl tion as to wha of the New Yo1 he approached it ett replied that they came up U no opportunity t itseJf, however, agined It would tures he had : movies, the ne magazines. \I believe tha of right now\ terview came been here such have seen so 1 some time to ideas of Amei'ic say, though, ho appreciate the 1 has been givet pressed me mo else. Everyone to me, and I sl them for all U Pulitzer P1 Open Moun; (Continue( Brown, '36, ma: pla.ced it und front, with a de stage base to a promoter's hooc cia.n can have and control of the play. The officers f new season are Emans, '36, Sch dent, Ro·bert M. LaJro; secretar1 '37, Schenectad Benjamin Wil1 Firth, '36, and 1 all of Schenect: James E. Kiml casting commit 1·oll, S.Ralph C a'n.d Wallace Henry; publici E. Townley, 'l manager, Milto

the re- .. the im- ac- at oth be ant of ex- un- in ach un- of ass. be hall the re- om- the hall and the re- by ac- (In sist- ring the SUC· a all be- and cap- the of ana- t to the of b. em, the zard Bill a es. p in fel- d be A be a. giv- ma- cess, ,) I .. ~·.-._:.' Higher Education Takes Two Paths THE GONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1935 Fraternities Announce \»37· Stud·ents En~oll Schenectady; Robert L. Beebe, sco; Anthony Skarka, coeymans; How- List of Many Pledges \- .1.' tia; John R. Bergstrom, Ridge- ard c. Smith, Plainville, Conn.; I F h Cl wood; Zehu J. Betlojeski, Schenec- Scott L. Smith jr., Hotchkiss School, (Continued from Page 1) . n res . ffiafl · . ass tady; John A. Bigwood, Schenec· Conn.; Hubert A. Squire, Rotter- ;Al:pha Phi Delta has .pledged: __ __ tady; Albert G. Borden jr., Exeter dam; Preston J. Steele, Schenec- Five DORM RESIDE~TS There will be a meeting of all dormitory residents tonorrow in the Old Chapel at 1 p. In. -------01------- h · t k R1bel De G s h d · ·(Contin·ued fr·om Page 1) Academy, N. H.; Robert S. Borst, tady·, George M. Stewart, Nutley, \:A. college student w o lS o ma e · esero, c enecta y; An- A b · thorJ.y B b 1 s h d School, Conn.,· Henry Glassman I any; Joseph M. Boychuck, Dun- N. J. ·, Howard C. VanKeuren, Nar- the mast of ·his opportunities to be- · ar er, c enecta · y; Frank ·.·.· Mele s h t d ·Brookline, Mass.·, Dona·ld ·C. Glen,' more, Pa.; Jehn Brand, Elmira; C. rowsburg,· Harry G. Walling, Hud- . con1e .a cultured individual as well ' · c e. n_ ec a Y; Fred Pepito, · c B s Alb ,., h 1 c Menands; Herbert B. Grant, Nor- · rown, t. Paul, Mass.; Robert son Falls; George T. C. Way, Al- as ·a self,sustaining citizen, should any; \'' 1 c ae · appiello, New E B R h Ha C walk·, Clyde C. Graves, Albany,· · ruce, oc ester; Bernard F. bany; Walter R. Wedekind, Sche- FALL LACROSSE A meeting of all students plan- ning to participate in fall lacrosse will be held Friday aflemoon at 5 p. m. in the trophy room ·of the gymnasium. Glo \II A 1 ' Rebert G. Gunn J·r., Pittsburgh, Pa.·, arro · • c enectady; Arthur Rob- nectady; Edward Buist Wells, Nut- llve l. \tl three layers·, the past, the·' ven, onn.; Renato Pomatti C 11 s h ' • Alb L p Al'by .A. Halpern, New York; Har- er arr, oom e • N. J.; Joseph ley, N. J.; Louis Werthman, Glov- p ·r·esent and the futu·re at some versvt · e;. nt-wny Nardacci, t C Bl fi !d times during his college career\ anY,; oms age, Schenectady; ve H d 1 s h Clifford Gloversville· Loui A C '11 J h L W d d W . .. . . . . . •., and Eugene Coppola, New York Y an e man, c enectady; Don- • • s · · om- er:>vl · e; ·o n . oo war , ater- sal.d ]h. Lar1abee, 'PI.ofessm of .City, all freshmen. . aid F. Henderson, Springfield, enza, Bridgeport, Conn.; James D. town; Alan C. Wrana, Weodmere ·philosophy, m. the epe.nmg reg';llar Sigma Phi pled s . Ed ·d· Mass.; Earle H. HoughtaHng, Wal- Curley, Schenectady; Br.uno C. Academy; Herbert F. Zuhr, Bloom- chapel ex.erc1ses th1s mornmg. w 11 ge ar~. \;a 1 . den; Ernest B. Houghton, Coek Czech, Amsterdam; Ribel A. De· field, N. J. ''Higher education,\ ·he said \has . e s, Nutley, N. J., Herbert Academy; Francis Juracka, Sc·he- Gesero, Schenectady; Dominick De- two ma in dl'recti\ons· 1't .a1'ms a·t ex-· F.axon, Boston, Mass.; Albert Bor-.· L' S h t d Ral h C D - ' d s th 0 nectady; Bernard s. Krause, Sche- tsa, c enec a y; p · . en- .pe:rt knowledge of a limited field en! au range, N. J.; William nectady; Stanley R. Liebman, ton, Saratoga Sptings; Vincent J. .. ; and at that much-abused goal caH~. \IVhlte, . Rochester; .Jack Pal~er, Poughl{eepsie; Milton R. Long, Dugan, .Schenectady; Marvin Dwore, ed 'general culture'.\ Delmar, John. Brand, Elmira;. s.chenectady·, James A. Lyman, Lan- Schenectady; B. M. J. Eoff, Schenec- \ . . Peter Owens, Utica; Luman Fuller t d D :lliq~ert knowl~dge about SOJl!-e Hempstead; all of the class of 1939 •· smgburgh; Wao!ter s. Mains, Am· a Yi avid Falk, Albany; Herman one thmg, each _of .us must have m . Phi Sigma Delt h . l d d: · sterdam.; john w. Maxwell, Kings- L. Finkelstein, .Schenectady; Morri~ a wor·ld ~~ specialized as ours; but Lewis Werth ~I as I? e _ge · weod School, Conn.; Robert P. Me- E. Fuller, Schenectady; Clarence E. the acqUJnng of it is no guarantee H . man, ov~rsvllle, AI- Enerney, Bronxville; Kenneth Me- Gingras, Schenectady; David W. of -the attainment of an equal de- aGn orwJtz, G!oversvrlle; Henry·.Leo.d, Schenectady·, .Cra·t'g D. Mt\ller Godfrey, Passaic; Stephen ·Grzywa- • 1 lassman Brookline Mass · D k gree of general culture IS best de- aid .Schr~n Tr·oy· 'Bernard Shona- Qu1ncy, Mass.; John Mitchell, Sche- czews i, New York; Thomas E. velop.ed m college or anywhere else ' • . - nectady; Ralph D. Morgan jr., Buf- Hannon, Schenectady; Donald B. by cultivating the art of living in pero, Syracuse; Robert Siegel, falo; James J. Mulcare, Springfield, .Hill, Mt. Hermon, Mass.; Robert 0. without spending all our existence Schenec~ady; ~ac!{ Amazon, Sche- Mass.; D•ouglas C. Murphy, Passaic; Hinckle, Schenectady; Alan Bor- In any one of them.\ nectady, Marvm Dwore, Schenec- Fra_nk P. Myers, Albany; Irving J. witz, Gloversville; Marvin A. Hum- \lt 'has been my own observation tady, of the class of l939. Nehck, Troy; Charles w. L. NeW- phrey, Schenectady; Paul S. Hum· that few college students are truly The Theta Delta Chi pledges are:· land, Troy; John J. Noonan, Co- phrey, Ballston S.pa; Colbert M. alive to what is gomg on in the .James Morgar:, '38, Olean; Robert: hoes; .Jay C. O'Brien, Albany· John ~ones! Huntington; AlbertS, Knight present world about .tnem than to ~ar~tt, Monticello; Kenneth Van J. O'Brien, Whitehall· Wii!i~m D Jr., N1agara Falls; Gilbert C. Kopf, the past; and sti'll less to the future be ark, Endicott; William Reh- O'Conner, Holyoke, M~ss.; Peters: Bloomfield, N. J.; Richard C. Kun- than to the present.\ erg, ~est Fulton; Leo Dwyer, Owens, Hackley School; Elind Par- ker, Albany; James 0. Kyle, Rye; Our present according to Dr ~omervJ!le, N. 3.; Earl Houghtal- ler, Granville; Dietrich K. Pause, Robert E. Lamberson, Albany; Max ·Larrabee, is ~xtremely Important .mg, Walden; Paul Lips, Stratford, Schenectady; George F. Perkins, Len, Kingston; Michael Letko even though it is saturated with Con:r~., of t~>e class of :1.939. Sar<~;toga Springs; Clarence B. Pow- Kingston; Joseph Lubansl\y, Am~ distasteful aspects of madhouse Psi Upsllon has pledged: T. ell Jr., Monroe; George F. Ralph, enia; Richard S. Masterson, Del- economics and weak human morale, ~ouglas ~Levenson,_ Bt·ooklyn; Da- New Hartford; Benjamin Rathbun mar; William F. Matthews, Glen a.nd we must avoid the habit of be- Vld B. Miller, Elmua; Kenneth B. jr., Elmira; Edward C. Retartyk, Cove; Gerald C. MatUJ·a, Schenec- ing com.pletely oblivious to it. Stree~er, Elmira; Calbert Jones, Scheneclady; Myer Ries, Schenec- tady; Charles G. McMullen, .Sche- \And so I say to the ears already Hunt~ng~on; Wallace Baker, Roch- tady; William c. Robbin:>, Schenec- nectady; John T. Mengel, Bacllston calloused with good advice perhaps, ester, R1chard Masterson, Albany; tady; Edward B. Roickle, Fonda; Lake; David B. Miller, Elmira; Jive in the rich layers of the pre- Edw~rd_D. Thomson, Schenectady. Robert A. Saaf, Schenectady; Har- FrankL. Moore jr., Glens Fa:lls; sent with the same zest for under- Phi S1gma Kappa has pledged: old B. Sanderson, Starkey Semin- John J. Morrison jr., Bloomfield, standing which you bring to the Bruno Czech, Amsterdam; William ary; Donald Schron, Troy; Bernard N. J.; Anthony W. Nardacci, Al· Crusades or Gresnam's Jaw. To do Waldron, Cherry Valley; Ralph A. Shapero, Syracuse; Jesse R. bany; Frank H. Nolte, Schenectady; .that you will have to read some- Denton, Saratoga Spa; Frank Van Sherman! Briarcliff; Philip L. Shew, J. A. Olewine, Kingsley School; thing besides the sport pag·es and Dyke, Albany; Ian Eaton, Schen- Gloversville; Robert H. Simmons, John A. Palm, Canal Zone; Jack the movie magazines. Read at least ectady; of th_e class of 1939, and Troy; Robert .siegel, Schenectady; K. Palmer, Delmar; William R. one newspa·per critically and thor- Charles Motisher, Albany; and Donald T. Smith, Troy; Robert L. Pauley, Delmar; Feori Pipito, AI· oughly each day, and as many more Scaron Kimmall, Albany, of the Sla~terly, Schenectady; Jerome bany; Renato C. Pomatti, Glovers- that disagree with it as you can class of 1938. Sm1th, Albany; T. Douglas 0. Stev- ville; Thomas Prichard, Glovers- manage.\ The Theta Nu Epsilon pledges enson, Brooklyn; Charles w. Stic- ville; James T. Reed, Albany; Wil- As tor the future, Dr. Larrabee are: John Mitchell, Schenectady; kle, Saratoga Spring; F. c. StouO'h- liam F. Rehberg, Rockville Center; says that \certainly no notion is John Boyce, Schenectady; Anthony ton, Taft School, Conn.; David°C. Frank Saidel, Bolton Landing; more utterly fatuous than the idea Barberi, Schenectady; George Bur- Taft, Madisonville, 0.; Robert E Howard E. Scheffer, Schenectady; that the future will take care of natt, Schenectady; Onin Bam·nan, Tanner, Binghamton; Donald Thom~ Wakefield T. Shugg, Schenectady; Division of E11gineering· Marston Ames, Montclair; Wal- lace F. Baker, Rochester; James W. Bell, East Springfield; Wilson P. Bishop, New Haven, Conn.; Douglas K. Blue, Poland; Thomas A. Burke, Rochester; Bradford W. Buttner, Hartford, Conn.; James C. CaUigeris, Saratoga Springs; Fred- erick C. Came, Waban, Ma~s.; F. B. Chapman, Taft School, Conn.; Rob- ert A. Controy, Pittsfield, Mass.; Geral·d L. Crosby, Ossining; Herbett W. Derrick jr., Buffalo; Robert H. Dunn, Buffalo; Leo J. Dwyer, Som- erville, N. J.; Ian D. Eaton, Sche- nectady; Franklin P. Frederi('}(, Lynbrook, L. I.; Luman R. Fuller jr., Morristown, N. J.; Robert Gar- nett, Monticello; George P. Hart II, White Plains; Erastu:; C. Haven, North Kingston; William Hodges, Gloversville; Sumner B. Irish, Port Jervis; Edwin 3. Jackson, Ilion; Stephen Jacobs, Schenectady; James S. Knowl~on, Hinsdale, Ill.; Victor E. Kerycin~ki, Schenectady; John .!!'. Mcllreath, Amsterdam; Frank Mele, Schenectady; Reuben Mer- chant, Rensselaer; Donald B. MiHer, Jamaica, L. I.; Daniel B. Morris, West Hartford, Conn.; Gordon H. Morse, Delmar; William Muirhead, Rensselaer; Joseph E. Paul, Balti- more, Md.; John H. Porter, Elmira; Joseph C. Reichal, Monroe; Aaron Reimann, Schenectady; Robert 0. Schindler, Schenectady; Kenneth B. Streeter, Elmira; Paul H. Teare, Lakewood, 0.; Stanley H. Teele, Schenectady; William T. Thomas, Jamestown; Fred Townsend, Sche- nectady; M. Tyler, Valley Forge, Pa.; Alford W. White, Rochester. .MURRY'S College Stuclenfs Favorite Eatrng . Place for 12 Years Popular Priced :F.ood City-Wide Recognition For Steaks and Chops Special Rates For Meals Missed No Loss For Meals Missed In Pleasant Surroundings Next to High Sc:hool itself.\ We ourselves make our Stillwaater; Merlin Fey, Schenec- son, Glenridge, N. J.; Edward D. own future by the way in which tady; Melvin Lavender, Waater- Thomson, Schenectady; John B. . we live in the futrn'e in the present. ford, all freshmen. Tru~bull, Cleveland Heights, o.; \If we want a future of peace and . Alpha Delta Phi has pledged: Rol11n L. Twining, Binghamton· plenty, we have got to begin living Herbert Grant, Norwalk, Conn.; Kenneth B. Van de Mark, Endicott; in and :planning for that ltind of a George Hart, White Plains; Rob- Andrew B. Vanderbilt, Rotterdam· Unity-Nobbs Nicklas Welcomes You • • futUI'e now.\ ert Mc!nery, Bronxville; Benjamin Fran W. ~an Dyke, Albany; LeRoy ----o Rathbun, Elmira.; Howard De T. Walbndge, Saratoga Springs; Scotch ExcliJ.ange Student Is Impressed by America Grass, Johnstown; Herbert Fox, Robert. C. Walter, Detroit, Mich.; J. Schenectady; James Mulcal'e M. We1ss, Utica; Wilbur R. Wilkin- Springfield, Mass.; of thhe clas~ son, Schenectady; Robert H. Wool- of 1939. lard, Taft School, Conn.; Rollin T Phi Delta Theta pledges are: Wright, Rockledge, Fla.; David L. (Continued from Page 1) Tomer Wey, Albany; Frank T. Yunich, Albany. · ly at home, and yet see enough Meyers, jr., Albany; William Matt- Div. of Mathematics and Science var•Jatlon every day to make it hews, Glen Cove; Robert Simmons, w interesting.' troy; James Bell, East Springfield; illiam V. Alexander jr., Starn- Beckett went on to say that 1 ·n- Robert Sl tt s b t d ford, Conn.; Jacob Amazon, Sche- a ery, c enec a Yi necatdy; Joseph J. Annese, Hobo- on mue on age ken, N. J.; Raymond w. Barclay, asmuch as he had attended co- (C t' d p 6) educational institutions since he r=========;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ was a child, it seemed rather un- 1 usual not to see girls running a- round the Union campus. He was assured by several undergraduates, however, that Skidmore College was near enough at hand to make up for Union',; deficiency in this line. \On the whole I find that the few American girls I've met so far are as attractive and nice as those in Scotland. I was told before I left home that most Am- erican girls were of the type re- ferred to as 'gold-diggers'. They're anything but that, and I've had to change my ideas about them com- pletely.\ In reply to the invariable ques- tion as to what he had thought of the New York City skyline as he approached it on the boat, Beck- ett repl!ed that it was foggy as they came up the bay, and he had no opportunity to see it. New York itse.lf, however, was as he had im· agined it would be from the pic· tures he had seen of It in the movies, the newspapers and the magazines. \I believe that's all I can think of right now\ he said as the in- terview came to a close. \I've been here such a short time ahd have seen so much that it take some time to coordinate all my ideas of Amel'ica. I would like to say, though, how terribly much I appreciate the warm welcome that has been given me. It has im- pressed me more than everything else. Everyone has been so nice to me, and I should like to thank them for all their kindness.'' ---01---- Pulitzer Prize Play Will Open Mountebanks Season (Continued from Page 1) :Brown, '36, master electrician, has ])la.ced it underneath the stage front, with a door leading from the stage base to a control booth with a ])romoter's hood, where the electri- cian can have direct supervision and control of all lighting used in the play . The officers for the Mountebanks new season are, president, John B. Eroans, '36, Schenectady; vice-presi- dent, Ro·bert M. Brown, '36, Saranac LaM; secretary, John B. Dowling, '3.7, Schenectady; stage managers, Benjamin Wilson, '36, Arthur J. Firth, '36, and Robert T. Shreve, '36, all of Schenectady; house manager, James E. Kimball, '36, Springfield; casting committee, Edward L. Gar- · 1·oll, S.Ralph Cohen, '3.7, Elizabeth, and Wallace T. Foote, '36, Port · Henry; publicity director, Francis E. Townley, '36,. Scotia; graduate manager, Milton M. Enzer, 1 29. Union College BOOKSTORE Room ,.5\ Administrati...... Building TEXTBOOKS IN STOCK FOR ALL COURSES Do your purchasing early College: Seal Jewelry Pennants Pillows Banners Plaques Die-Stamped Stationery Fraternity: Banners and Plaques COMPLETE LINE OF FOUNTAIN PENS, FEATURING PARKERS' SLIDE RULES, LAUNDRY CASES On Display NEW REMINGTON PORTABLE TYPEWRITER DESK Hour-s-1st 6 weeks 8:45-12:30 1:00-5:00 Regular Hours: 8:45-12:00 1:15- 5:00 Shirtmakers He~berdashers CATERING TO COLLEGE STUDENTS Gus Keefe--Harold Merritt 104 Broadway Just off State DON'T }1/~ The PaJ.•ke:a• Vacnmatic- Invented by a 1Jnhersicy Professor to replace pens that suddenly run dJ.'Y in Classes and Exa1ns Holds 12,000 words of ink-102% more than old style • • • When held to the ligl1t you can :see the Ink Level-see when to refill! T ilE marvelous new Parker V acu· matic is no more like the pens of yesterday than your 1935 car is like a '25 model. It's the identical pen you've often said that someone ought to invent. Scores of inventors tried to-fully 250 sacless pens were patented he· fore this miracle writer was horn. But none found a way to sm·mount the mechanical faults of squirt-gun piston pumps, valves, etc. Then a scientist at the University of Wisconsin conceived the Vacu· matic. And Geo. S. Parker~ world's leading pen maker, agreed to develop it because it contained no rubber sac or lever filler like sac-type pens-no piston pump as in ordinary sacless pens. That's why l'arker can-and DOES--guarantee the V acumatic MECHANICALLY PERFECT! Because there is nothing else like it, the United States and foreign countries have granted Parker patents. CLOTHING HATS FURNISHINGS SHOES Quality Merchandise L. F. NICKLAS. 138 JAY STREET Inc. This original style creation intro- dqcesluminouslaminated Pearl and Jet-yet when held to the light the \Jet\ rings become transparent, re· vealing the level of ink! Step into any good store selling pens; and see it. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wis. FREE! Send a Post Card for 1\lewl nk That Cled!ls~s Any Pen As It Writes Parker Quink-a remarkable new. ink - contains a harmless i:ngre· dient that dissolves sediment left .In pens by ordinary inks. ·Ends clogging. Get It from any store, or send your address ·li>r slllall bottle to try, FREE. Address, JJept;1:1lo.

. i ! \ Six ['HEJ CONCOR.DIENSIS, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1935 B B. s. in Cbemistry-Je>seph Roger Outl \ng Cl'l,lb Plays Fratei.·nitie.s Announce· Las·t Yeal·-~s. D· ean· 's B.s. in E. E.-Alfred F. Bischoff,,Henry Ba.xter, Fay ~I'OU~~tog J:· Ciaranello, Carl Robert .~aejten, U . Benjamin Almon Brown Vincent gor, Wilha.rn Kenne Y Y - '' Ang· elo Joseph Marotta, Phtl!p Bar- List of Many Pledges • Au ustine Doyle, Mile> Wilkinson I Kenneth Nelson Brown, II vm~ ton Moore. Host to 25 Eas tern ---- LISt TS Announced E~es, Eugene Oliver Emerson, Brownstei_n, Paul Ca:mpbell Jr.c, ~~~k ·B.s. ,-n Physics-Lee· Losee Dav- . I (Continued from Page 5) · · il · '· · · · uenneth NnU Mathes, Byron Eu- ome LoUIS Cohen, <?eotge _ . C ll f I 0 C A \\\ ~ - J h Cla1b01ne Davis enport, Howard SamueL l\IIoncton. 0 eges 0 .. Thomas Schcrmerhm n, Schenec- --- ene .Phelps, Chester Malcolm I Cummmgs, 0 11 - - , ' Total sophomores-68. \ '\ • • • -~ tady, of the class of 1930. An ~hoades, Jr., David Elbert Wallis, John Joaep.ll Deveny, \~IIllB;m J;_ re~- --- Kappa Alpha has pledged: Rob- indication -of the increased John Edmund 'Wbite, Jr. ericlt Doney, John Ben]am~n o':'- Members of the class of '3& listed t T Bl h t J I stress placed upoll scholarship ·by- B. S. 111 Chenustry-Daniel Ru- ing Jr., Stuart Jet.·ome E.1senbe1dg-, are: U · M b E t t · er anner, ng am on; 010 the administration is evident in the I F II Fred Fe! B d 1 lllOll em ers n er aut Trumbull, Cleveland, Ohio; Max pert Conlon, Jt•., Robert Louis Slo-- Rush Ba.rney ·a VI ~· J Th A. B. C . .mrse-Harold . ear s ey 0 100 D I t t ~..:< Tyle Gl F 11 J S K 1 decreased number of names appear- bod, JosHpll Sottysiuk. man Jodeph Albet t Field r., eo- Ackerman, D•elevan. Annett, Carl ver · e ega es a ,;:,UlU· r, ens a s; ames - now - •ng on the Dean's Lt'st fa~ 1\'34-35. - ' · 1 F Fentn·Il Ashe! B d son, Chicago, Ill,; Daniel Morl'is, k L \ B. s. In Physics-John Robert dare Will am ox, ·. ~ h 11 J Blackstone Booth, Julius un gus mer Camp Near Marcy Hal'tford, Conn.; Benjamin MorJ!s, Members of the class of 1935 men- Clark, Leonard Elsenbud, Haz•ry Gage, Franlt Beery Gate e .. r., Jr., Benjamin Cohen, -E:rnanuel De- --- Schenectady, of the class of 19!l0. tioned are: Roswell Summez·hayes, Jr. Guy Anthony Graves Jr., .Wilham Jnozka, Jr., Robert Charles Denz~ 'I 'h l{ s· 1 d Pt·esent seniors listed are: August GriesBJu, .Geor·ge Pame Has· ler, Edso:1. Van Schaiclt Draper, e appa lgma P e ges are: ·A. B. Co11rse-Robet•.t W!'lli'am di d H lm J1· Ralph Dr. Fox Lauds Project H b t z h Bl f' ld N J A. B. Course-Melvin Thomas Bo- kell, Fer nan e . · -• - Robert Harry Fer-g-uson, Donald er er u r, oom le • · -; Eat'n, Geo1·ge Spet!~.et· ·Bat·re•:t, ·Paul H ff M rv1n Katz W1l- H G 'lb t K f Bl f' !d N J ~ • r1'ght, Burton BenJ'amin Delack, Oliver o man, 8J · · · · '- - Philip Ford, Paul Goldberg, enry 1 er op \ oom Ie • - -; Harold Bet'k, M1'lton Albe1·t Ber·ger, c L F st1'ei' W1lham D · 1 G df P · N J R b John Lawrence Doran, John Backe~· ford A. - e ore ' Disbrow Ha1tmann, Charles Henry a VI( 0 rey, assaJC, - -: · 0 - E1·nest Natl1an ·B•·own, Raymond d J Wllf1·ed Me- PI Sl 'd t £1 d \V l C Bl f' !d N J £ Emans, Clement Alfred Finch, Nel-· Peter Leonar • ·ames · House, Jr., Harrison ·M:yron Karp, ·e en '-Ommen S 01'{, ert an, oom te • - .; John Budney, No~nlan 01•cutt Chad- .,.,d d Mt'lberg J M · Bl f' Jd N J • son Allen Foot Jr., Wallace Turner l{enzie Jr., \'-' war · ' . · Stanley Kollin, Willard Lew-Is Male, W 't f' C t' · · on-tson, oom te • - · bout·ne, ·Frank Pomet·oy Champ,· M'll R. C I Mo·on Ed rl es 0 onserva 1011 In T h p· h G D Foot-e, William F1eedman, Charles Richard I s, oy 0 e . • -: Do~•nick Mele, Marvin :Merton Mil- h e i amma elta pledges George Tompkins Clark, John Nicol M It Jr Oscar uu Letter to Campers are: William Muirhead, Rens- D.· aly, Rudolplt. _,..,,ederi'ck Deutl, Amsden, Jr., John Danforth Hall, gar Laurence ou on · -· Jer, Melvin Irving Muroff, Norman I R b W 'll d A b \' John Leo. Hallenbeck, Robert Sam- John Muller, Thomas Dennis Nolan, Pomerantz, Donald George Roy, se aer; o ert 1 ar • ·1 any; Jame~ Dt'cl~son, Anthon\ D•t'Loienzo, El.ti p g·er Frank d B · T' ~ ~ \ uel Lane:er, William Charles Ma- Richard ng assen • . · · Robert Louis Royal, James Ar·nold More .than 100 delegates f-rom 25 Bradfor uttnet·,. Uttca; · lller Hugh Ross El~\yn John Evander - h'lli J D - ic Raf - Sl S h t d W 'll' D - ... gul-l'e, John Alfred McGuire, Donald Dewey P l ps r:, omm . s· . 11 Heni'Y Malcolm Seider Carl eastern colleges and univez·silies Jugg, c enec a y; 1 .tam un- Finch, James 'i'rnst Ft'nl•e, Austin Ch 1 H 11 Reeves cu y, · ' · b II f h \' ' Charles Miller, Robert Carver faele Pitaro, ar es owe · · . · Rl'cha·rd Trahman, Charles Wiber- met in the Mt. Marcy reE!ion of the mot'e, AI any, a res men. :McCt·acken ·Fox:, Ore! Fr•1'edman, b t R' J· es Wrl ~ R Not·th, Ca-1·1 Ert'c Olson, James Lin- James Her er · 1ggs, am \ El d George Wisenburn Adirondacks last week when the Delta Chi has pledged: aymond Charles Ruxton Frost Jr., Malcolm G J h Riley ·ley, woo · · C T h u ' 11 h den Palmer, William Ho\vard Par- Iiam Righter, eorge ·.os.ep _ _ • E W'll d W Union Outing Club acted as host for asey, ~o1; Art .ur .~.ucCo oug • Locltwood Griffing, Rankine -Gallien J h R' c r W 1 Jham B. S. in C. '·- .t a.r arren t he I t 11 . t 0 t' CI b A Tro,·· Phlhp Moore Schenectady.' HI W It H H ld 'd sons, George Wellington Putman, David o n Ing, astml I d Dea-n, Bet·nal:d Valentine Jacoliclt. n erco egm e u mg u s· J • · •· •• · nman, a er ' enry o r1 ge, Charles Leslie Reid, Jr., Raymond Ruszkowski, Bernard Harry Sa a , sociation. This group, almost evenly Howard Van Keuren, NaHows- Seymour Arnold Hor•'\tz Homer C It S d Norman B. S. in E. E.-Arthu.x Edward \• Fz·ancis Robinson, John Ross, Char- Richaz d ar ou ny er, divided between men and women, bUI·gh, all of .the_ clas. s of 1939. Thomas Jennx'ngs, ·m 1 \lll'am Spencer D 'd 8 d St I'l' Breymaier, Marlin Dep:p, Richard \ .Ies David Stinard, Donald Trum- Stamler, aVJ an ers a ~. g athered in the many lean-tos Lambda. Ch1 Alphas P. ledges are: McCord, Raymond Samuel McDow- C t' St t F nk Lee Kovaric, James William Scott. · bull, VanVechten T-rumbu. II, Michael George m· ts -ewar • ra \'Vi which are situated near Lake Colden Mike Tttlw, Watezvhet; Ju.mes ell, James Leo M<:Gzo.ne, Albert Ivor T 1 W'lb Don B. S. in Chemistry - n nterton John Tytko, Alvin VanValltenburg, Thorne, Jack inlt e, 1 ur · and the Flowed Lands to discuss Calligeris, Saratoga; William Tho- Morrison, Joseph John Rigali, Jer- Underhill Day, Walter Otto Gerber h 'k' d . t ts - 't' J t n all fre hmen Si d b Jr., Morton Yulman. aid Walling. W'll' J b A gust L u 1 mg an wm er spor act1v1 1es mas, ames ow , s - ome gmun Rosen, Virgil Jaco B. S. in C. E.~Michael Edward B. S. in c. E.-Vaden Reynolds Jr., -1 tam aco er, u a r- and to make plans for joint outings The Delta Upsilon pladges are: Sager, Robe1t Joseph Schultz, Fiot.e, James Vincent Marotta, Al- Butler Samuel Mark Hewitt. enski, Arthur Charles So.:ntora, Rob- and ski meets durin£! the winter. Jesse Shennan. B1iarcliff Manor; Ralph Donald Setnerad, Edward B. 8 · - E E G W'llt'am ert Alexander Van Nordstrand, - bert Henry Stevenson, B. - m '·· .- eorge l · When the delegates had climbed Ralph Morgan, Buffalo; Brook.s S. Shires, Jr., Lauren Edward B. S. in E. 1':.-Edwat·d HaJold Hobbs, Richard Mmch Kelsey, How- Matthew Woodrow Wilson, John all the major peaks of the vicinity Houghton, R-ochester; Geo1ge Smith, Maus Wellington Steams, Bastedo, Howard Gordon Earls, ard Lauren Knack, William James Schiller Vv'old. and had discussed plans around Ralph, Utica; Gerald Van Buren, J.r., Nathan Stillman, George Wil- Philip Hutt, Willis Bradley Plum- Owens, Jr., Henry Anthony Reit- B. S. in Physics-John Robert scattered campfires, Walter Wil· Newburgh; John Porter, Elmira. liam Stroebel, Jr., Peter Stephen mer. fort, Joseph Leland Theisen. Doig, Jr. Iiams, '36, president of the Union - -- - -- Szyjkowslti, Charles Crabbe Thomas, B. S. in Cht\mistry Kenneth Outing Club, called a closing con- c }J T • • \\'illiam Augustus Waldron II, Jacob FrederiC'k, Her man D~ttbarn nounced another meE'ting which will • Joseph Aaron Woolman. Kluge, Donald William Snack. ference at Marcy Dam and an- 0 ege raining I Thornton Wilson Whipple, .Jr .. be held sometime this fall in the Prep\DDres for Life B. s. in Pbyslcs-HaiOld Shaw White Mountains. · U · B. S. in C. E.-Sidney Albert Cole, Howe. The backwoods life brought a re- John Gz-oet, Eldon Franklin Matte- P1esent junio:·s named are: ver·sal of many of the customs of son, Stanley Rockefeller, Victor An- A. B. Course -Burns Francis Bar- iadoor, more civilized society, as the President }'ox Exhorts Frosh dtew Stevens, Ellwood Beyrich ford Jr., Emile Stat1islaus Bartle, conventions. which determine the to Realize fhance fot· Wengenroth. Arlington Emerson Baxter, Donald relations of men and womt>n as so- cial animals were in some ca,;es broken down. It was the woman who invited the man to dinner, and Bountiful Living CLA,RK WITBECK CO. \Quality Hardware Since I B70\ THE ACME BARBER SHOP Welcomes the Freshmen of Union College 509 UNION ST. NEAREST THE CAMPUS it was the man who did his own Stressing college training as the: cooking. Even mm·e opposed to the preparation for bountiful living tenets of chivalry was the fact that rather than for me1e existence, each girl can ied her own pack. President Dixon Rya.n Fox: told the I Feminine instincts were taken into fr·eshman class Thursday in the sec- consideration, however, by the L 0 ond day of theil• orientation that' C. A.'s bulletin, which advised that the country is no longer for youth, \for women, two dozen different but youth for the country. ~~~f~~~~~~;1i~~t~~~ ~~~a~i~~~~i~J~i~~~{t~ REA4~: ::A::::~ e::::n~F4-~: ~ICE ll'\'';~;~·:·~i'\~';•m;;•m•;;•;•~;;;;'\'l· half of Union, wrote a letter of effective parts in _that great engine ;;; m greeting which was read by Walter of leadership wh1ch colleges exist :_:_:)m::::mm::m:mm:m::::::::::::::mm::m:mmmm:mmm::m:mmm:m:m:::m::::m:::mmmmm::m::m;:; Williams. to forge and renew? Is there suffi- ::; :i; Part of Dr. Fox's letter follows: cient courage and zeal, sufficient in,... Eli iEl \All of us who are interested in tellectual conviction or responsibil- m L E R 0 y I s R E s TA ·u R A-N T m the American scene and the devel- ity in these personalities to malte m m opment of our national resources- worth while the expenditure in i§! m chief among them, if I may say so, labor and materials Which is to be· gj iii young manhood and young woman- made upon them? m m hood-take the highest sausra,cuon \Every new ::;tudent is here by m Conveniently Located-Opposite Green Gate m in the development of the college reason of someone else's sacrifice. ::: ;;; outing clubs. Now that we live most American fathers and mothers deny Hi On Nott Street m in towns, this cultivation of outdoor themselves more generously that ::; m sports and intez ests is of the great- their youth may have this costly m m m m est benefit to the country. Generally opportunity tho.n have mothers and ;;; m !,,.·:_;:,, :!,:,,·,,!. those who go in for exploration and fathers in any other country of the m m ~~~n~a~% a:~~!t~he 0 ~o~~eat~f:c~ 7a~~~d~n~ oi~eporr/~tso~~:s~ ~~~:!~~n~lj~j SPECIAL STUDENT MEAL TICKETS m ill !!! tive and enterprising students, men \But neither you nor your !ami- !§i !il ::: ::: :~~eswi~mte:e :ohu 0 nt~;~evJ!r~:ni~:ouk ~~~~:It ::;.~r~e!~a~i~a~~ ~~n c~~~ ~~! $3.00-$5.00 BY THE WEEK m ~~~ ;,'=,= •. :~,,:''·,'.:.~'=.,:.· to them, therefore, to spread Amer- women, patriotic in the highest !§i iii ican interests in the study, vigorous sense, who have entrusted YOU With m jg w 1 life We all most admire. their hard~wrung savings through m m e re ready to serve Y\\U the Regrets Absence endowments. Some of these have ::: m v \We who must remain at home in died long since, counting upon this 1~i m m t R f h. St I f th m ~~~'::!~;~:~~'~}:\+~:~~i?~~ LUNCHES AND DINNERS 3 Sc Fait Se =s~~~N' ewl yy ~~~coc~. 11 ',,_:., .. :.~'= •. 1 · haling the \mart tang of the moun- d tain pines.\ e models-sparkling fa·br.lcs-- Dr. Fox pointed out also In the • SPECIAL SUNDAY DINNERS 4 m letter that a Union graduate, Joel ment. But unlilte most investors !~; . . Oc m These New Fall Su\lts and Top-::.·=,,'::''=.,.·=,,,:,:.·=.,, T. Hadley, 1839, was the first writer those who have endowed this col- 1 g~ !1i to set forth the charms of the Ad- lege and other colleges exact no re- I ill m I t irondacks in extended literary pre- turn for themselves or their de-ll\ ::: coa s are positively intov·,~at- sentation. Going to that wild region scendantb; they have assigned re- 1ig Hi m A ~ ~;:t:gj1f1~;:~r:~~;:1i ~~~~~;:~~:!:~:~:~;,;::'~I Sc HAMBU R GI:RS Sc Ill .: .. 1 ,_;=l:,! ~~~ can go ·on a clothes-buy- : ... !.! .. ,;!,,,~ of thousands to that then almost after you graduate merely by uv- !!§ H 0 T D 0 G S m • unknown regton. ing, you can clear your balance only g~ m I ng spree wifh no bad ff t Dr. Fox also mentioned Dr. by living bountifully. Your whole li: :li :,::'':,_i.,,:':; e SC S ~:':,~':,!::,': Franldin B. Hough, Union 1843, d_uty 1 here is to prepare for bountiful 11~ Hj On your bank aCCQ-· u· nt • 1 • • whose work· in conservation saved 1vtng. iiE Hi ~;1~~~~;~~~~~~1 ::~::~:;~~~~::: PI.::I:K:.:~:.~E::~.:~.:::::ed 1',,,'1:,'·, 1 ' They're so reasonably priced. i,.j!:,.!i::.l! gers, Swarthmore, Smith Colleges, !l Blocks Below College Gate and the University of New Hamp- PHONE 2--3464 • .:; •• !.!, ~~~¥.~~~~~~; ... WE L C 0 M E ' J-- 9 1 1 i 1 I Again • • • what'll it be :,l.i,J early in September, and the num- I !,,\ ~~~I~~~r~:~r~~~:~~~fg.~~~~: ''THE U ~•1-0 ..._. 1a....• ...._. ,, I :.,.!,11 gentlemen? ~~ ~~.i:'.m:.· s.~~!':'· '\:;~\' w:,·.~~ i 1'11111111 ·~ 1'111111111~ I ,.,·:,.!!,,.,~ m ~:r~.n;r:r:t~:::~~~~! 1 WHERE uNION MEN HAVE coME FOR YEARs I ~~~ J.-:. 1 ;.~ wood, N. J.; J. R. Doig, Erie, Pa.; / I ::: J 0 S E p H Is :~~!~~re 8 ~~~'h~~~. rf~~~~·ro~~~: 1 TRY OUR DELICIOUS SANDWICHES AND GOOD DRINKS .:.,::.:!11 l,_l:.J:. lace Foote, Port Henry; Wallace .. Hughes, Chicago; Ralph Macalles- I The Best Place t<> Make New Friencls and Renew Old Friendships !! Stan Joseph Un'lon •2·1 ::: ter jr., Everett, Mass.; Joseph c I ll m Reichal, Monroe; Robert Leith, Sco- :11 !!! tia; Richa:rd Passenger, Newport I 517 Union Street- A. p. DeSiena -Tel. 4-2536 i iii HEADQUARTER m i'm~ ~;.;,i:;,~~1!:~1~!~.~ I I ~J . s FOR FROSH CAPS ~~ \\\''\' \' \'' ,,,.. [. li~\\\\''\'\'\\\'\-...,.\'s\\'\\\'\\\\\\'\\\'\'\\\'\\\\'\\\\'B .. ~ ................ ---- • i Student I l Officers Council' Chooses ·. : 1 for Year -! ___________ _ ··===========1 :Vol. LIX., No. !NYA Giv~ ;App·roval 1 To Colleg 'National You1 tion Succeeds Niuety-J Assignnu: ·Seventy-nine Be Filled by ing; Ma The National ~ tion has officiall: distribution of fu ance of needy ~ College, it was an by Miss Frances of the employme The funds ap college by the N · ministration wh the FERA will b pr-ovide for 95 jo The employmen· ceived over 200 a for these positior over last year. First As For the first a~: positions, the 79 ceive jobs wh• stated by signee ·. necessity for em to continue colle positions will be dents who also ~ ployment. The have been reje.:: who are qualifie.:: Although rna have full time p only work for a ber of hours a!J ' rhese extra JlO~ ligned accordin~ men t of the bur deserving studei Purpol The purpose o -crease the num and women ~ . throughout the to receive a gra be \non-profitm~ as attested by 1 students are ex \such ability as that they will d in college.\ Funds for pas to c.olleges on b: ment ot' resideJ Union's enrollm• it is allowed to its student bod the NY A, thus 95 positions. The governm students of Uni• years. Last yea a large percent body was empl< (Continue Play Pl .J.4llBran Unique amon~: have been off· recent years Is ated course in l der the directlo Carroll. It pro\ those enr ol!ed themselves with theatre-acting, scene designir make-up, and J Each member < so write anc:i ~ an original pia::~ duced by the st if it is approve of the course d• classroom forn: Carro-ll's wish be carried on the nature of than that of a During the plays will be group, which ' an invited a u• of these plays show the pub: has been doing general idea o and the differ tin.g employed its early begin cent times. E expressionistic, other types of : and at least tv ed with transv ing.

ten, gus De- per, nry nry ale, ren k· ard ard ton ber .. ~ .............. -------. f Student l ., Council' l: Chooses \. i Officers t : 1 for Year l ·I : ---------------- / / f r-~:::::;-! Dr. Fox Opens I 85th Year I I I I of Albany I I I 1 Law School 1 I I '-------------- •============================== ::Vol. LIX., No. 2 PRICE FIVE CENTS UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1935 ·. ?NYA Gives Official : App·roval of Grant 1 To College Bureau Dr. Stanl~y Contributes I Outing Club Holds Firt~ Praises ~and ~s. 'G- ri· sw-old.. Mlilt lano D·ei·ack 'fo Philosophy Journal F\ t M r ' w·th High Rankmg ActiVIty ' . ' fe~~·rpo~il~h~~~~~e~y.a~~i:t~~!ef~~d· Rle:rcsordeAet.·tlenngda .. nlce·· That the Band is not looking for Elected Council Officers much comment on his contribution sympathy, but that its importance to the August number of The Journ- ___ as a college organization which the -- ---·- ---- -·--- · ----- - t> 'National Youth Administra- tion Succeeds FERA, Gives Ninety-five Jobs Assignments Made ·Seventy-nine Positions Will Be Filled by Most Deserv- ing; Many Apply The National Youth Administra- tion has officially approved of the distribution of funds for the assist- ance of needy students of Union College, it was announced yesterday by Miss Frances Travis, in charge of the employment bureau. The fund,; appropriated to the college by the National Youth Ad- . ministration which wa:s formally the FERA will be $1425, which will pr.ovide for 95 jobs at $15 a month. The employment bureau has re- ceived over 200 applications to date for these positions, a great increase over last year. First Assignments For the first assignments of NYA positions, the 79 students will re- ceive jobs who have definitely . stated by signed application theiz ·necessity for employment in order to continue college. The remaining positions will be given to other stu- dents who also are in need of em- ployment. The applicants which have been rejected include those who are qualified for special jobs. Although many students will have full time positions, some may only work for a part of the num- ber of hours allotted each month. · rhese extra positions will be as- ligned according to the best judg- ment of the bureau as to the most deserving students. a! of Philosophy, entitled \The students themselve:l 1 unk among Skepticism~ of David Hume.\ ·Plans Announced for Ca.bin the first four of college activities The article contains a Iu•en anal- in Adirondacks; Many should warrant it full :;up port was ysis of the view:> of that Scottish empha:;ized by Arthur J. Firth '36 philosopher. According to Dr. Stan- Frosh Present in his addre:>s at last Wednesday's ley there are at le!lst six scepticisms Daily Assembly. in Hume The:le :lix teduce, how- --- In his talk, Firth stated that the ever, to two:-one of which, the DiscUSS Future band was a very complex Oiganiza- \real\ Hume, constitutes little more tion which needed the entite arch- than what is tetmed today \scien- e:;tration in order to sound a,; a tific caution\; and the other of ·Forty-one Enthusiasts Join In fully rounded band does. He said which, genuine Pyrrhonist suspen- that it also was a training school :;ion of judgment, or extreme skept- Discussion of Fall and for musicians, and not only played icism, Hume could never quite ac- Winter Projects marches and contemporary music cept or escape. · but also arrangement., by the more ---o------ --- famous composers. Bl '\ologi .. sts Rep 0 r t Forty-one enthusiastic students Filth further stated that the · . · ~ interested in hiking, camping, and Band helped to atttuct mu£icians 0 PI t R h winter sports activities gathered at from neighboring high schools and fi an esearc Silliman Hall Wednesday evening thereby served as an attraction to --·- for the initial meeting of the Out- sub-freshmen. He concluded by say- Budding Chloroplasts Subject ing Club, a Ia1ge delegation of ing that the cost for pieces would freshmen present indicating the be very reasonable this year, ap- of Paper Prepared by growing popularity .of the organiza- proximately thirty cents a piece, Clarke and Dale tion at Union. Opened by President and if any freshman thought that Walt Williams, '36, the meeting he had not received his money's The resear~h-e-s--of Profess 0 rs . came to a. high .spot when Robert worth at the end of the year, it Leonard B. Clark and Ernest M. North, '36, member of the executive would be cheerfully refunded if he council of the club was asked to would send in the green button Dale of the Union College biology make public, plans for the Outing from his frosh cap, or a reasonably staff was reported at the annual Club cabin in the Adirondacks. accurate facsimile. general meeting of the scientists of Cabin at North Creel' the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole, Mass. on August 29 by The cab:n is located on Thir- Professor Clark. The subject of the teenth La:l'e in the vicinity of Nm th paper dealt with \Budding Chlmo- Creek and is large enough for ac- plasts and Extra Chloroplast Form- commodations of twenty to thirty ation in Spirogyra.\ bunks. Ideally situated in the heart Especially significant in the de- of the Adirondack winter sports re- velopment of both plants and an- gion, the cabin is th1ee miles cross- imals IS the pigment chlorophyll, country fi om the Go1·c Mountain for it has the power of changing ski runs, and seven miles by road. the energy of sunlight Into chem- It is easily accessible, being only ical energy of such a form as can one-fourth mile from an automobile be available to plants and animals. road kept free of snow by plows The energy of sunlight made avail- during the winter. able in this manner is the ultimate Vvhen arrangements are com- source for practically all plants and pleted, the cabin will be available animals. for the use of the members during Professors Clark and Dale found the winter months and a ~holt time before and will, it is expected, that extra chloroplasts may be prove a considerable saving in ex- formed by buddings of other chloro- pense for the club as well as con- plasts. It is these chloroplasts venience. Members pledged to pay which contain the pigment called their share of the expense of the ---0----- Albany Law School Begins 85th Year President Sees Law Colleges As Hope of Future in Opening Addre~s Purpose Stated chlorophyll. cabin, and a considerable portion The purpose of the NYA is to in- New Apparatus of the sum was collected at the Law schools are the towers of vision in which increasing trust is placed to make up for the lack of foresight of the Bench in permit- ting law to bend to new facts and conditions, declared President Dix- on Ryan Fox, speaking at the of- ficial opening of the 85th year of the Albany Law School, Wednesday. \The prestige of the law and lawyers is declining in Central and Eastern Europe. Ge1many, Italy, and Russm are not governed by law but by rescript, edict, and decree. The government of what we know as law with its guaranties of secur- ity has gone, for the time being; it never existed for long in South America. The lawyers stabilize it in Not thern and \Vestern Europe and in the United States.\ mePting. ·crease the number of young men At the same meeting, Professor and women attending colleges Clark demonstrated apparatus de- OvPinight Trip throughout the country. In order signed to study visual reactions, Wult \Villiams announced an to receive a grant, a college must such as dark adaptation and inten- over-night trip to Pilot Knob on be \non-profitmaking in characte1 sity discrimination, in fiddler crabs. Lake George which will be held this as attested by their charter,\ and The custom of holding a general coming weekend, the group leaving students are expected to posses;; scientific meeting at the famous Saturday afternoon and 1 eturning \such ability as to give assurance Woods Hole resea1ch laboratory Sunday evening. While there, the that they will do high grade work where scientists fwm all over the club will take an excursion up to in college.\ country gather for summer investi- the summits of Pilot Knob and ad- Funds for positions are allocated gations, began four years ago. Here jaccnt peaks. Williams also an- to c.olleges on basis of total enroll- the scientists report upon their nounced that the club had been ment of resident students. Since work and informal discussion fol- u:>ketl bJ' the Schenectady Winter Union's enrollment is 799 students, lows. Abstracts of the papers pre- Spotts Club to cooperate in the it is allowed to have 12 pet• cent of sented are later published in the work on the Rotte 1 dam ski runs its student body employed under Biological Bulletin. The papers are which the Union outfit used last the NYA, thus accounting for the limited to 10 minute reading length, · winter and helped to put into condi- 95 positions. . because of the large number of re- tion in the fall. The government has a1ded the ports on the program. students of Union for the past two Dr. Dale was not ptesent at the Wyatt Hpealt.s years. Last year under the FERA. 1 Woods Hole meeting as he was car- As a histol.ical introduction fm a large percentage of the student rying on special botanical investiga- the ft eshmen, Ft edc>rick Wyatt, '32. b.ody was employed, the wage rate tions under a. grant from the Uni- · enthusiastic alumnu>< advisor told <Continued on Page 4J versity of California this summer. of past club activities and stated Play Production Course Embraces ..!4ll Branches of Theatrical Activities that they expected to hold at !Past two outings every month. \The Outing Club,\ he said, \is for those students who want to participate in camping, hiking, and winter sports, and is purely for the purpose of going out and having a good time. \Ve want to keep away from red TracP5 Histoi'y Trb.cing the history of the gradual growth of the power a.nd influence of la\Vyers in America, Dr. Fox quoted a Massachusett:l farmer who wrote in 1789; accusing the lawyers of living by the quarrels, follies, dis- putes, and distresses of the many. \The shyster, loathed as he is by every decent citizen, is ~till with u:>, somewhat to the shame of the bar it::;elf. BuL the profession was never respected as much as It is today. Nor was it ever more necessa1y. It stands clearly and strongly for the balanced ju:;tice between the rights of the individual and those of the organized group, the £tate. The re- cent Shechter case is an example of the wholesome stabilizing influence of the law and lawyezs in the storm of novel doctrine. Cast Chosen For 1 Two Athletes~ Tax c.ommittee- . man Chosen Offtcers at Mountebanks Play First Council Meeting Twenty-six Principab, With Discuss Student Problems Alternates, Named After --- jl'irst Tryouts Vote to Give Terrace Council --- Keys; Debate Freshman- As a result of the try-outs held Sophomore Football Tuesday and \\'ednesday nights for __ _ \Both Your Hou,;es,\ the first play to be presented by the Mounte- banks this year, the following cast, with alt<>rnates, was chosen by Ed- ward L. Carroll, Di1 ectot·. Merton- Fredet ick Fmst '37, Don- ald Hotaling '38. Wister WallacP T. Foote '36, J. M. Weiss '39 . Sol Fitzmamice- Henry Clay '38, Laurence Hennessey '38. Mark George Hart '39, Benjamin Cohen '38. Grey S. R. Cohen '38, Donald Thompson '39. Level'ing -Bernalll Salad '37, Ed- ward Well::; '39. Dell John B. Dowling '37, Clarence Clark '36. Sneden Call Trahman '38. Arnolu Dubb '36. \Vingblatt Hat vc•y Handelman Meyer Weiss '39. Peebles-VanVechten T1 umbull Robert Walter '39. '39, '33. Farnum- William Mulvey '38, Jo. seph Buyehuk '39. Alan McLean- -Forrest Reynolds '3'6, Wallace R. Hughes '37. Ebner· Ferdinand Helm JL Bernard Shapiro '39. Largf> Gr·oup PrPsPnt '37. At the try-outs, such a large and talented group presented itself that great care had to be exercised in choosing the cast. Many promising actors were found among the fresh- men present, and opportunity will be given those not assignod a part in the present play to exp1ess their ability in the three other plays to be offered by the Mountebanks this year. Membt!rs and alternates of the cast of \Both Your Houses\ a1 e requested to be present at the Mountebanks Theater at 7:30 o'clock Friday night for a prelim- inaty reading of the play. !'lay by Anderson Guy Griswold, Joseph Milano, and Burton Delaclt, all of the class of '35, we1 e elected vice-chairman, ::;ec- retary, and treasurer, respectively, at the first regular meeting of the Student Council, held Wednesday evening. and pi esided over by Charles Kt ull, who was elected chai'rman late last year. The vac- ancy in the representatives of the JUnior class occasioned by the ab- sence of Jamet> Q. Doyle is yet to be filled. The decision which quieted the tumult of last year by declaring that member:; of the Terrace Coun- ciol, ,;enior honorary society, should purchase their own keys, was re- voked when the Council voted to oupply keys out of student tax funds. This must next be passed by the student tax committee in order to become effective. Spring Night Discussed A discussion of Spring Night was held, after which it was decided to appoint a committee considerably in advance of the function in order to make it more colorful and more fully attended than in recent years. Whether or not the collection plate should be passed to students who attend Sunday Chapel was al- ::;o discussed, but no definite action was taken_ The possibilities of an annual freshman-sophomore football game to fill the place of the formal fights which were abolished last year were also considered. It was announced that the Soph- omore Disciplinary Committee which enfm·ces the freshman 1 ules will be appointed in the near future. Many Activities Guy Griswold is serving his third year on the Council and is also a member of the Terrace Council. A member of Phi Gamma Delta and 1·esident of Coatsville, Pa .• he was captain of the swimming team last year, won his cla,;,; numerals in basketball, and is co-captain of baseball for this year, as well as leading pitcher. He was a member of the Glee Club in his freshman \Both Your Houses\ was written year. Unique among the courses which have been offered at Union in recent years Is the newly inaugm·- ated course in Play Production un- der the direction of Mt·. Edward L. Carroll. It provides opportunity for those enz oiled in it to familiarize themselves with every branch of the theatre-acting, directing, lighting, scene designing, mask making, make-up, and general stage work. Each member of the group will al- so write and submit for approval an original play, which will be pro- duced by the students of the group if it is approved. The very nature of the course does not lend itself to class!'oom formality, and it is Mr. Carro-ll's wish that the whole idea be carried on informally; more in the nature of a thea.tre company than tha.t of a class. The first play to be presented by lape and formal mee>tings, but we're the cours<> will be \The Comedy of all free to come out for it whenever King Cambyses\. a pre-Shakespear- we can. It's not a regular activity ean play that will be read before . since no one is bar red on account an audience of undergraduates. This of the eligibility list. It's sole pur- play should be interesting to those pose is for getting a little relax- oludents who are studying Shakes- atlon and seeing a bit of this part peare inasmuch as Falstaff in \King of the country.\ Wyatt also in- Henry IV\ refers to it several times, eluded an explanation of the trans- and one scene between Prince Hal po1tation prob!ems of the organiza- and Falstaff is a direct parody of tion. \Cambyses.\ Other plays to be pre- sented are \Amaranth\, an original play adapted from the late Edward Arlington Robinson's poem of the same name; and two plays by Gor- don Bottomly: \The C1 ier by Night\ and \King Lear's Wife\. No plays have been definitely chosen as yet --·-·--0-·- ·-~ Student Service Bureau Plans Extended Program The announcement that Union College is to receive the benefits of r. completely organized Student Service Bureau which will render both employment and valuable business experience to those who are affiliated with it, and an insti- tution which will provide its fra- ternity and dormitory patrons with prompt and efficient service was made yesterday by Preston T. Reed, '38 and Wallace R. Hughes. '37, manager in charge of the bureau. \Now if lawyers are interestetl only in stabilization, if they refuse to permit that law to bend to new facts and conditions the breaking point will come here too. On many ,;ides there is expression of some doubt as to the foresight of the bench in this reasonable accomoda- tion and in some quarters the feel- ing that the hope is in the law schools. In their detachment, with it:l attendant reflection and philos- ophy, is the opportunity for vision beyond old black letter law. It is therefore not a mere storehouse of p1ecedent thal we reopen today but a tower of vision.\ by Maxwell Anderson, who is the Joseph Milano, letterman in bas- author of such other stage sue- lietball, track, and football, is cap- eesses as \Ma1y of Scotland\ and lain of basketball for the 1935-36 \Valley Forge\. It was first pre- ,;eason. He is affiliated with Delta sented in New Y01k in 1933, and Upsilon and h; u resident of Sche- was av.arded the Pulitzer Prize as nectady. He has served on the Stu- the best play of that season. The dent Council and is now on the Ter- plot concerns the trials and disap- race Council. As a sophomore, he pointmetns of a young and ideal- held the position of class treasurer. JStic reptesentative of Congress who Bu1ton Delack, member of Beta finds himself plunged into the mid- Theta Pi, and resident of Schenec- dle of a group of older and more l tady was president of the French hmuened congressmen, who are as. Club, and was business manager of crooked as any to be found. The the 1936 Garnet. He is at present whole play is a brilliant and amus- chairman of the student tax com- ing satire on American Govern- I mittee, having also served on that ment, particularly Congress. body last year. Proverbial Postmaster Has Nothing On Counterparts Among Faculty The postman who took a walk on Mr. Kurt von Forstmeyer, in- his holiday has several counter- structor in German. to:ok several paris among the faculty it would post-graduate courses in Columbia :>eem according to the number of University. They dealt with \The professors who devoted the summet German Novel\ \Modern German months to wot·k in their own par- Literature\ and \Friedrich Schil- ticular field. ler's D.ramas and Philosophical During the course of the yea!' plays will be presented by the group, which will be given before an invited a udience. The purpose of these plays will be not only to show the public what the course has been doing, but to give them a general idea of the types of plays and the different methods of set- ting employed by the theatre from its early beginnings to its more re- cent times. Examples of realistic, expressionistic, impressionistic and other types of setting will be shown; and at least two plays will be stag- ed with transver·se and center stag- ing. to follow these four as it is hoped that by that time some of the orig- inal plays of the students in the course will be ready for presenta- tion. The group, of which there are tyelve members, meets Tuesday and Thursday afternoons in the Mounte- banks Theatre from one-thir·ty to three-thirty. During this two hour period they discuss possible settings for the various plays, hehearse the play on which they are working, or learn the fundamentals of lighting, mask-making, and other branches of the theatre. Mr. Carroll will al- so give them an idea of the history of the theatre, f1 om the earliest Greek tragedies to lhe present day. An office and telephone for the Se1·vice Burea·u have been installed in Silliman Hall, and the organiza- tion is now expanding and coordi- nating its several services. Chief among these is the food service which delivers sandwiches and other refreshments to the various (Continued on Page 4) -----0-' College Libmrian Regrets Departure lh·om Campus \I wish to express my sincet e re- gret at leaving Union College at the present time when it seems to have promise of such a splendid future under the leadership of Dr. Fox,\ said Mr. James Brewster, college librarian, who is to leave Union's campus on October 1 to undertake his recently appointed duties of assistant Connecticut State librarian. \I shall miss the atmosphere of the college, as eight years is really too long a time to (Continued on Page 4) Dr. Ernest Ligon, assi:ltant pro- Writings.\ fessor of Psychology, .betook his Mr. Frederick L. Bronner, assist- ''individual differences\ and inferi- ant professor of history, and \Sage ority complexes\ to Auburn Thea- of Bailey Hall\ stayed away from logical Seminary where he lectured church all summer while working on \The Psychology of Character on a doctoral thesis, \The Evolu- Development\. Besides. reading the lion of the Sabbath in the United pt·oofs of his forthcoming books and States from 1800-1865,\ helping with the installation of new Dr. Ernest Dale, assistant profes- equipment and apparatius in thl' sor of biology, spent his vacation psychology laboratory, he planned conducting special botanical investi- the research program to be insti- gations under a grant from the Uni- tuted here this year on \Psychology versily of California. of Character.\ Many other members of the fac- . ulty conducted less formal research Dr. Harrison Coffin, professor of along lines in which they were. par\ Gz eek, came closer to the present ticularly interested and it is suspect- time when he forsook Homer and ed that a few members of The Con- spent his vacation in England ex- cordiensis staff were in the vicinity amining Roman remains. of newspaper offices.

'j i \' ,. ' :' I ' Two ~itttsis \11 Ca11sa Persa Parole llssai\ FOUNDED 1877 1935 Member 1936 t::\ssocialed CoUee>iale Press Dist:ributor of Colle6iate Di5est Sole and l~x..!u>l\·e !\:u.tiouul Advertl:sing Hepre- Hen tativt:', ~ :ttiunu.l . .\dv~1 tbing St•rvi·l'e, lnl'., 11 we~t 42nd ::lt., :-1. Y. l'., 400 :-<o. M!L•h!gan Ave., Ciucago, Illinois, t'llimgu· \\\rig ley Bldg., ButilUll, :\laHs. The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Frid'!-ys throughout the college year, except durmg Christmas and spring recesses. --------------------- Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-414 ___ 1 ___ Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price F1ve cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywh.ere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Sshenectady, 4-0133. Senior Board Van Vechten Trumbull ........ Editor-in-Chief !leila Phi Jluuse---4-0645 Robert 0. Nelson ..... , ...... Business Manager Kappa Alpltu l,udgt;-4·S1~2. John D. Anderson .......... Managmg Editor l'si l't•sliun lluu:oe---4-~710 Editor Albert H. Stevenson ........... .Spm·ts l'si l'psilon Huu><e-4-~710 Robert C. North .. ··- ............ News Editor llt·lr.a CtJs!luti lluust!--4~ 7U:!:! Wallace T. Foote .............. Feature Editor .\ lpha llelta l'hi House--467~9 Daniel B. Wohl ........... Cir·culation Manager Ka:!>l>a 1.\:u HuuBe-4·7331 J unbr Board AS:SOCIA'l'E EDITORS Milton Bedell Ralph Cohen Fenton Gage Richard Passenger Richard Snyder Carlton Garrison J. Bundgull R. Dolg W. Dean Sophomore Board Assistant Editors H. Enzer H. R. F11rguson M. C. Honikel C. Hartmann Muroff Tranman ls.::;ue Edi tut· ..... _ ..... Richard Passeng-er Assistant Issue Editors R. Fet·guson J. Bundgus Friday, September 20, 1935 TREASON Union College ha.s a band. Not all colleges h.ave bands. Some hire professional bands at considerable expense to play for football games, parades, and such occasions. Some have no band at all. But Union's band is made up of students. They play because they like to, and because in playing, they puticipate in the life of the college. At a football game, the band is a part of the college in the same way that the cheering section, or the team itself, is a part of the college. Unfortunately duting the last few years, the band has become the butt of many so- called \dirty cracks\. which have taken the place of humor in the collegiate mind. Any- one in a critical mood, whose dinner was not resting agreeably in his stomach, used to criticize the band. It was the Jonah, the scapegoat, for innumerable glandular dis- turbances and minor ranklings. We are not usually inclined to condemn the whole team when one player fumbles the ball. Why not give the band the same kind loyalty? We, personally, like to whistle. Sometimes we whistle off key, but there are some tunes we would rather whistle ourself than listen to them over the radio. Union's band playing the Dutchman Song sounds better to us than Sousa's. Perhaps this is treason. SOUTH COLONNADE THE GONGORDlENSIS, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1935 colonnade. Its musty attics and storerooms 1··· .. ll;;;;;A;;;;;R;;;;;O=U;;;;;N;;;;;D;;;;;;;;;T;;;H;;;;E;;;W;;;;. ;;;;;O;;;R;;;;;L;;;;;D;;;;;;;!J have been a veritable treasure house of ( ·Q L U M N By RICHARD SNYDER Union lore, as many old portraits, relics, and historical records have lain there to gather 11-=========;;;;;;;=====~==~~~:::=:~ The Consumers' Research plant in dust until recently when the growth of the Last night the editor came around You made me live with ~ 0 ~ in washington, New Jersey, one of the • f\ tl t to fire us, but we weren't in. So ahem-college. You lrept wr~t·l~/5 dm~ last places where one w~uld expect college necessitated clearmg some o 'le a - he had to keep us, both of me. Any- letters all my life. Wh~n 1 e. d · such a thing, is in the mrdst of s~r- tics for office space. way nobody else'll write for his had a little peace untrl you dre : ious labor trouble replete wrth , b t Van and then you. hollnded me all ove_r. ~t·rr·ke arrd 'locl'out. Th_ e present h • d' 1 · h · f dirty old rag. (Don't e upse • · · , all e ·uscr ..; • T is bml mg, rep ete Wlt rnemorleS 0 it's all in the spirit of good clean hell. Now when w~ re . r B t- crisis is caused .by the discharge of former students and professors of Union, run.) For the benefit of those who tated just to appear 1 ~t thl~ag~~~·t three wo1·1rem who we1·e ap~arently d on't know much a·bout us, and a_ 1- you come hanging a er · · · · · good standing with the dnectors Will again become a center of college life, as so for those who don't care, we m- ou know I'm an actor and have. ~~the laboratory until. they b~~ame d . · t ngle femperament'? (Begins t~ cry.) active in a tr-ade unwn .a.ff1llated it has been in the past. A new, large mmg cline toward the dramd a. a antha. t Ca·n't you ever let me alone. tCrles, Wl'th th·e .... F. of L. 'The employe.es of about forty-eight eg1ees, 11· y- . ) -\' hall will be housed under its roof, tog·ether ocven minutes, and nineteen ~econds more and more and still more. · accuse the Consumers' Research_ of f and will accordingly give our col- Eliphalet: My feet are getting firing worlters so often that durmg with spadous lounges for students and ac- I . tl trr·cal tone wet. u tile past yea·r· ·mor·e persons have umn someth ng of a 1ea · h t yo ulty. John Howard: Oh, s u up, · been discharged than are now on A DRAMATIC HISTORY old thing, you! lExitJ the whole staff thus plaJCing. labor The colleg·e has long· felt the need of ade- 01!' UNION COLLEGE tEnter Secretary of State Seward) turnover on ,an abnormal basis. t d f d d . · Eliphalet: Hello, S. S. S. qua e commons rooms, an · o a g-oo uung (highly dramatic) Seward: Don't call me that. 0 o o o hall on the campus where students can eat The stage has been set, and the There's been a war! f t lll muse of history, assisted by that Dr. Larrabee: (Rushing on stage) The journey- 0 wo we -mown together. The proposed renovation seems to 1 .mnressive historian, Dr. Fox is just I know it, and I don't approve of United States senators to Havana, · Cuba on .behalf of the Chase Na- fill this need in a peculiarly appl'Oprlate man- engaged in sweeping it. We come wars. ti\onal Bank ·is 1 ,egarded by some as · in. Seward: Boo! I do. b th ner. The location is central and convement, D. r·. ·Lar·ra'bee ·. Boo. yourself. In the .pressure applied y . e grOl!P Muse: My Gawd, the audience. t 11 d ·xty percent of the d th b \ld\ · · h · t d\t\ W h the last w· are more than twenty who con ro e 81 an e Ul Ing LS riC 111 ra 1 lOll. . e can Here, you finh;h. \She hands t e stock behind' a $40;000,000 loan to · f h\ broom to Dr. Fox and goes out. Dr. million men- t be sure that Dr. Fox, with hls sense 0 1$- 'F I Sewar·d·. Ther·e aren't that many· the Machado· governmen some Jfox sweeps away, humming ' or f bl\ wo ks Most torical fitness, will see that the interior dec- am the Captain of the Pinafore\. In the United States. yoefatr~e a~on~yr ~~ur:~ its r w~y into E Ch t A A -+hu1· ) Dr. Larrabee: Don't you know oration wm be in keeping with the mellow nter es er . 1 \ . • any statistics? the pockets of members of the un- c. A. A.:You're off key, Prexy. Seward: .of course not. I'm a. scr·upulous regime who later under dignity of the colonnade. Listen! (He pulls out a pitch-pipe.) statesman. All 1 know is that dur- the fire of rEvolution escaped, never To the anonymous dono1· who is making Tweet! ing the Civil War- to be heard from again, The actual Dr. Fox: (whistling) Tweet! Dr Larrabee: The Civil War? building, fa1· from being beneficial possible the reconsb·uction, we extend our c. A. A.: That's it! Now here we Se.;.,ard: Of course. What war did to the Cuban people, resulted in a anonymous g-ratitude. The gift is genel'OUS, go. tThey whistle a duet ending you think I meant? There hasn't $20,000,000 gilt-domed Capitol, the with a piercing minor chord.) been any war siuce the Civil War final bid on which was only $4,000, useful, and fitting, which is about all that a worth mention·ng. 1 I was Secretary ooo. The re·maining 40 per cent of Dr. Fox: Well, now that was- h ld b 11 · t \ft b · th of State dur!ncr the Civil War. the stock was e Y sma mves g'l can e. !Someone throws a pillow rrom e \' ors who will lose their investment NOBODY MISSED THEM A year has passed since the traditional travesty of interclass scraps was abolished. The hectic days of registration are over, students are settled and classes begun, with the \fights\ inconspicuously absent. There were a few sporadic tussles Monday night, but they were pitifully individual af- fairs. No one has considered the sophomore class spiritless because they didn't welcome the less brawny freshmen by parading them downtown with their pants off. Nor is the Class of 1939 believed to be lacking in pep because they didn't feel obJig.ed to gang up and kidnap some of the s<Jphomores. Interest in hazing and inter-class rivalry of the more childish sort is so dead that scarcely anyone of the campus noticed their absence either to approve or to disapprove. Nobody missed them. And herein lies a lesson: when a college tradition becomes so decrepit (as did the inter-class \fights\) that all sorts of arti- ficial stimulation must be applied to keep students going through the motions-then it shou_ld be abolished forthwith, without even the accompaniment of a nostalgic tear. \Traditions\ which are allowed to become chores are more damaging to the morale of a college than if its football team should lose every game for 10 years l'Unning. Better no tradition at all than a dead one. NYA Union students have reason for ooing grateful to the government of these 1 United States, because in addition to the benefits of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, many of th.em have received good, sixty-cent dollars in monthly checks from the Federal Emergency Relief Administration. They worked for these checks, of course. They did everything from digging the hockey rink to typing the pmf.essor's thesis for 35 cents an hour. Now comes the announcement that there will be no more FERA jobs. The name has been changed. The funds set aside to aid wings and knoclrs him down.) Dr. Larrabee: Oh, God! In my h . ) Oh chapel speech of Tuesday, Septem- because of the impoverished condi C. A. A.: !Helping 1m up . yes, I quite forgot. I'm prologue fm· ber seventeenth, to which I refer tion of Cuba, this thing. I've gotta recite. you, I advocated acquainting one- \Good friends around us gathered self with the past but I distinctly here did not favor marrying it. To see the scenes which shall Seward: Shut up! You old orang- appear- outang! lEnter Mr. Carroll without Isn't that awful? The English de- his shirt. He has lent it to the partment wrote it. Mountebanks for a costume.) \To see the scenes which shall Mr. Carroll: Everybody on for the appear, Give ear--- Aw, hell, I forgot it. !He is drag- ged off-stage by a hoolc Two stage hands lmembel\S of the engineering department, of course) lead off Dr. F'ox. The chronicle pageant of Un· ion College is about to commence. So there is a long pause. At last enter a group of Mohawk Valley Dutch peasantry talking politics. Nobody can understand them. This scene is supposed to show the state of ignorance prevailing around Schenectady before the foundation of Union College. Enter John How· ard Payne.) John Howard: 'Mid pleasures and palaces Though we may roam Be it ever- M!·. Carroll: !Offstage) Not yet, John Howard, please. John Howard: Keep titill. I was writing plays before you were born. Mr. Carroll: Far be it from me to argue about that. John Howard: Very well 'Mid pleasures and palaces--- (Enter Eliphalet Nott, preceded by the Union College band. In one hand he carries a cane and in the other a list of his inventions.) John Howard: Can't you ever let me alone? Eliphalet: Hush, I must hear my applause. <Dean Berg, who is back stage and always ready to oblige, puts an applause record on a vic- trola with electric amplifiers.) Eliphalet: Now, what were you going to say? John Howard: Just this. Where· ever I go you follow me. You took care of me until I was almost crazy. finale! (Enter the facility tripping over one another, Two stage hands carry on the Idol. Two more bring in the Nott Elm in a pot. Various alumni come in, walking if alive and flying if dead, which proves that there is bliss beyond the grave. l Mr. Carroll: Ready now! Voice off-stage: Just a minute, please. !Dr. Fox comes in carrying the Mohawk Drama Festival. Tum .. ultuous applause. Quick curtain.) F. H. and Ilomay Bailey is enough to make us sit through just another musical picture. T. S. 0 0 0 0 The Death of Sir Guy Standing To the State comes \Annapolis Farewell' starring boy-scout Tom Brown and Sir Guy Standing. The latter, poor man, is thrust into a role calculated to draw more tears than a Spanish onion, and the for- mer is left to be a young American. Both parts and both performances are pretty depressing. The picture itself is a gl01·ification of the Am- erican Navy and the Spirit of An- napolis. The plot concerns a breezy youth <Tom Brown, whose breezi- n~ss has developed into a high wmdl who comes to Annapolis look- ing for a free education on the gov- ernment and a chance to graduate into professional football. His elder brother, also at the Academy and an ardent Old Glory-ite, tries to dis- suade him from his evil purpose, to no avail. Tom is too practical to be a patriot. Enter retired Commo- dore F!tz Hugh tSir Guy Standing ---who 1f any man ever did deserves better) formerly- commander of the Ill II Congress, a vessel which figured Now Showing ii~o~~;ntly at the capture of Man- ''==============.! In a series of scenes, revoltingly ~ sentimental, the commodore dis- Second Round of \The Scoundrel\ plays an almost amorous affection Having seen Noel Coward and fo_r the navy and the Academy, like- Julie Haydon romp through \The WISe a nearly pathological devotion Scoundrel\ twice now, we are still to his old ship. As part of the local a little puzzled as to our decision. color featured in this picture a tar- The whole thing is so obviously in- get practice Is ordered. HORRORS • sincere that one might be inclined They're going to use the CommO:. to question the value of its exist- dare's old ship for the target. In encc, We wish to state quite flatly the dead of night and near the that Miss Haydon exemplifies· our death of the film the Commodore ideal of a cinema actress. She has goes out to his old ship to await the charm, naivete, handsome appear- a~tack.. At dawn the practice be- ance, plus acting ability---a refresh- gms With '!om :Brown, still cynical lng change from most Hollywood about the hfe of a sailor, very com- heroines, who possess ony the third petently commanding a gun crew ingredient. We would prefer to re- Th~ Congress is briskly blown t~ serve our opinion of Mr. Coward un- s~lmters. _A hessage arrives. Comm. : til that time when we should see FitzHugh rs on the Congress. TTOO : him in a vehicle which was not LLA~.TTE_:E! 'Oh God, what have I: tailor-made-au natural, if you please. done· cnes Tom Brown, in sub- : The story is a typical Hecht-Mac- stance, and whole heartedly em- ' Arthur one-the old miracle hokum braces the navy, Annapolis, ideals · in forty-second street garments, and the Star Spangled Banner while ' with a background of Rachmanin- Commodore F. goes off's throbby Concerto. It is very down 0 0 0 0 One aspect of Mussolini's inexor able drivtl on Ethiopia which has not been stressed .in newspapers is the fact that the Italians suffered a crushing defeat at the hands of the Abyssinians at Adowa in 1896. From the \C.mzning Tower\ Editor's Note: Not every college can boast a professor of philosophy who wields such a fluent, versatile pen as Dr. Harold .A. Larrabee. Dr. Lar rabee writes for the fun of it; he is one of that talented group of incur able amateurs who help Columnist Franklin P. Adams write his fa mous \Conning Tower.\ We re print his latest contribution, with F. P. A.'s conunent, as it appeared at the top of The Conning Tower\ in the New Y'ork. Herald-Tribune yes terday. 1835--FreslunAn-1935 Great-grandpa came to college In eighteen thirty-five He used a harse for haulage And tied It in the drive; There wa:s no rush committee Dispensing freshman caps, With \Welcome to Our City\ Expressions on their maps; Alone he sought admission, The President looked stern: \Had he enough ambition?\ \Was he on fire to learn?\ He'd had so few essentials- Some Tully and some Weems, But most of his credentials Were merely future dreams; A letter from his preacher Brought forth a friendly look: \This lad will make a teacher .. He signed the college book, And paid his fir-st tuition From hard-earned summer cash, So came to quick fruition A wish that once seemed rash; At last matriculated, Down steps he fairly ran, Picked up his trunk, elated, He was a college man! 0 0 0 0 0 Great-grandson thumbs to college In nineteen thirty-five, But not for lack of knowledge He's competent to drive· His advent is preceded ' By letters by the score, When one request is heeded, There come a dozen more For detailed information- Fill out this questionnaire About your father's station, The color of his hair? His parents flee on binges, All ?reaky in the joints, On th1s admission hinges- Has he just fifteen points.? Then come the \Welcome'' ietters, The Freshtnan Bible', too, Fz OD;J. sophomoric: betters- A most aggressive crew· A week in mid-Septembe; Is spent in var-ied tests: How much can he remember? ~hould dinner coats match ;ests? students in their struggle for education are being administere dby the NYA, the Na- Nothing could afford Union students tional Youth Administration. well-knit, however, and is carried down along bodily by some brilliant dia- down His _I. ~-· please? His muscles? H1s hst of aptitudes? Admixed with sundry-· tussles :With fellow--salesmen-studes; His paper--worlr completed What's left is little joy ' Thou~h pr·etty much defe~ted, He IS a college boy! greater gratification than the pLans for the We for one are sorry to see the FERA reconstruction of South Colonnade, with go. We liked the sound of the phrase \FERA which Dr. Fox sm·p.l·ised the faculty meeting job.\ It had all the alphabetical dignity of a last week. position on the brain trust. \NYA job\ does The colonnade fo1·ms one wing of the old- not roll so smoothly off the tong-ue. Then, est building on the campus. The desk of its too, under the new system we are no longer classrooms are scarl'ed with countless in- classed as a federal emerg-ency; we are mere- itials, and its stairs curved a.nd creaking. ly another Youth to administer. Nothing Old Dr. Hale, .beloved professor of English gets our goat quite so much as being called lived for many years in one section of this a Youth, with a capital Y. Iogue. Mr. Lee Garmes, photogra- to a. watery grave. pher and associate director, had as F. H. much to do with the picture's suc- cess as anyone, we suspect. The camera work and lighting were magniflcient---not a challenge but a threat to the technicians on the West coast. Hope Williams, Alex Woollcott, Jim Tully and Martha Sleeper added much to this picnic of cynicism, We give the product- ion two and one half stars and re- commend your attendance. We can't say anything about Cros- by's 'Two For Tonight' thing, but any bUI which includes Lee Sims Notes On Our Contemporarties 'I'he author .of the preceding poem, Giflls a professor of Philosophy at Union The U i •t · College, told college students yeste~- n vers1 Y of Pennsylvania day th t th ~, has received slightly more than $ 1 0,- a · ey ought to read at least 000,000 from nearly 23,000 persons one newspaper critically and thor- In the last 10 years oughly _daily. \You will have to read Culture . somethmg besides the sports pages At the University of Arkansas the ~~d p~h: ~ovle magazines,\ he said. average students spend about t . 10 e out a good day to adver- (Contlnued on :p 11 .,.e A) our trse the Herald-'I'ribune in whose ., .. ·natne we tha.nk him. · New Me11 Football First Gal :Eight New Me ed to Coach l Last DummyS .. J)eceptive Offe ·I Employe I Wor J The most exciti 1 tiona! baseball le J sta11ting, but dan: · ~ lean sport is rna opening of the j the colleges of t Army, Columbia, Yale, Harvard, C ern, Michigan anc live big teams o lining up for a lh In the small c Three, Amherst, ' 'leyan, Union, Tuf chusetts State, V· and Hamilton ar ing for the immi son. Within one will be once a:ga erty of the thous follow \the pro: leather ball.\ Opene Monday the Ga five days away fr• Middlebury Colle! of thE zest of an i test will be lost cause the game there is sufficlen before the start • to warrant suppc home or at Midd: Not only is the to get under wa squad, after diffi has assumed a n additions are ml tained by this af be 31 men worki Eight ]'I Since Monday E ported for service ·Coach Hatfield about his team. Breymaier, Wally old Ackerman, b: and Stuart Irvine. Burns Barford a morata, possibili are the most rec During the we maging has been ing feature of thE scrimmagse, whe be the more expe Coach Nelson 1' against the vars Interest has beer: ·students in thei the freshman sq· yearling teams. 'l find valuable opt squad, and be pr• assignment wher: bury- Saturday, S Athl~ FROSH :X Coach Wilford anx!o11s to have are interested cross-country- te him at the gym1 possible. Expel country rurtning FOOTBAL Students will 1:: cw•e tickets for Cheering Sectioll ·game, These m~ presentation o1 Tickets\ at the Admittance to th will be denied to. the ushers. Students must tickets at the g takers. USE ( The gymnasiu11 refinished, It is strict observancE taining to its usE The wearing oj shoes is requirec Violators of th manently exclud• ' · the facilities. The swimming from B p. m. to f day except Satw

the of of ing on bor Na- as the to nto un- der ver a the 00,- of ent is da the r'~ pen is fa- re- F. at in sh, m, on .. New Men Build Up !INTRAMURAL Football Squad As ATHLETICS I First Game Nears The athlet1c managers of all fraternity and group teams will be requi>red to file a written entry foi • .their team for all sports fostered by; the department if they wish their • :Eight New Men Have Report· ed to Coach Hatfield Since IJast Monday . team to compete. Adequate notice will be given each event at the ·proper time by the Athletic Depart-, ment. Dummy Scrimmages ·Deceptive Offensive Plays An Employed in Daily Workouts The most exciting part of the na- ! tional baseball leagues may be just [ stavting, but daily the grand Amer- ) ican sport is making way for the opening of the football season in the colleges of the Uni·ted States, Army, Columbia, Princeton, Navy, Yale, Harvard, Colgate, Northwest- ern, Michigan and other representa· tive big teams of the country ai e lining up for a lively fall campaign In the small colleges, the Little Three, Amherst, Williams, and Wes· ·leyan, Union, Tufts, Hobart, Massa- chusetts State, Vermont, Rocheste1 an<! Hamilton are likewise prepar· ing for the imminent football sea- ·son, Within one week these name~ will be once again common prop- . erty of the thousands of fans whc follow \the progress of a little leather ball.\ Opener Near Monday the Garnet eleven will be five days away from its opener witr Middlebury College_ Although some of the zest of an initial football con· test will be lost to Union men be· , ·cause the game is played away, there is sufficient anxiety evident before the start of the 1935 season to warrant support of the team at home or at Middlebury. Not only is the season beginning to get under way, but the Union squad, after difficulties in growth, has assumed a normal size, If no additions are made or losses sus- tained by this afternoon there will be 31 men working on the varsity. Eight New Men Since Monday eight men have re- ported for service on the squad, and ·Coach Hatfield is less troubled about his team. Jack Smith, Art Breymaier, Wally Hughes, and Har- ·old Ackerman, bacltfield prospects, and Stuart Irvine, Frances Agostini, Burns Barford and Edward Cam- rnorata, possibilities for the line, are the most recent additions. During the week dummy scrim- maging has been held. An interest- Ing. feature of the freshman-varsity scnmmagse, when they start, will be the more experienced group that Coach Nelson Nitchman will pit against the varsity. Some hearty Interest has been displayed by the ·students in their comparisons of the freshman squad with previous yearling teams. The varsity should find valuable opposition in the cub squad, and be prepared for a tough assignment when meeting Middle- bury Saturday, September 28 . Touch Football Entries for the Intra-mural Touch Football league will close Monday, September 23, at 5 p. m. The ath- 'l'etic managers of each team must file a written ·entry with the De- partment of Physical Education and Athletics and sign his name to the entry. The cooperation of all man- agers Is. asked since no post-entries· will be acceptable~ Announcements concerning the schedule will ·be issued from the Department subse- quently. Rather than conduct the activity on the round•robin basis as last year, it is deemed advisable, .. because of the limited facilities available, to conduct the competition on an elim- mation basis. Fall Te~mis Intra-mural Fall Tennis entries will close on the same day as the football entries. Each contestant is requested to file his written entry with the Athletic Department be- fore the elapsed time for entry ac- ceptance, No post entries will be accepted by the department. The tourney will be conducted on an individual rather than a .team basis, with contestants supplying their own rackets and balls for all matches. ---0--- Delta Phis Trounce Betas To Secure So jtball Cup The Delta :Phis last night clinch- ed the Intra-mural Softball trophy by defeating the Betas, 5 to 3, in the second game of a proposed two out of three series. Having taken the first game 18 to 8 by reason of an avalanche of hits in the first and sixth innings, when they push- ed over five and 10 runs respective- ly, the Delta's continued their win- ning ways and coasted to a:n easy victory in the second contest. The initial game was a free hit- ting contest, with Randall and Im~ rie of the Delta :Phi's clouting three hits apiece to -cop individual honors. Burke received credit for the vic- tory, after replacing Hinkle in the sixth stanza. Hollenbeck hurled the entire gam efor the losers. Randall Gets Three Hits BUl'ke again faced Hollenbeck in the final contest, and was touched for a homer with one aboard by the rival pitcher. Randall managed to collect three bingles, while Finch of Beta rapped out a pair of blows to share batting honors. The win- ners scored by virtue of two runs in the fii·st, one in the fifth, and two in the sixth, while the Beta's tallied in the first a:nd sixth innings. The playoff was the result of a tie at the close of the season last spring, when the Deltas and the Beta's finished with a like number of wins and losses. It was sched- uled as a two out of three game series, but by virtue of their two consecutive triumphs, the Delta Phi's proved that they did not need to resort to a third game to assert their supremacy. Athletic Department Notices FROSH X-COUNTRY Coach Wilford Ketz is especially anxious to have all freshmen who are interested in the freshman cross-country team to report to him at the gymnasium as soon as possible. Experience in cross- country rurtning is not necessary. FOOTBALL TICEUETS Students will be required to pro- cw•e tickets for their seats in the Cheering Section for each varsity game, These may be obtained by presentation of - the \Athletic Tickets\ at the gymnasium office. Admittance to the Cheering Section will be denied to. all non-holders. by the ushers. Students must show both their tickets at the gate to the ticket- takers. USE OF GYM The gymnasium :tloor having been refinished, It is necessary that a strict observance of the rules per- taining to its use be adhered to. The wearing of clean rubber soled shoes is required of all. Violators of this rule will be per- manently excluded from the use of · · the facilities. \ The swimming pool will be open from B p. m. to 5 p. m. every week- day except Saturday, ATEDWETIO TICEUETS The issuance of the Athletic tickets will be made from the stock room in the basement of the Gym- nasium between 1 p. m. and 5 p. m. upon presentation of receipt from the Bursar showing that the appli- cant has paid :his athletic tax or that its payment has been arranged for. FROSH GYM EQUIPMENT Frosh Gym Equipment will be is- sued from the Gymnasium Stock- room between the hours of 1 p. m. and 5 p. m. upon presentation of the Bursar's receipt_ Lockers will also l:le assigned at this time, upon pay- ment of one dollar deposit which wilt be refunded in June. FALL LACROSSE A. meeting of all students plan- ning to participate in fall lacrosse will be held Friday afternoon. at 5 p. m. in the tl'Ophy room of the gymnasium. SWIMJ.WNG TEST A.l! freshmen are required to pass a swimming test. Football men may do so after the season closes, but all other fresh must report to the pool soon, THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, SE'PTElVJ;BER 20, 1935 SIDE LINES By ALBERT H. STEVENSON The return of autumn once more finds the varsity gridders working out daily under Head Coach Hatfield and Assistant Coach Lawrence .. With the squad Increased to 31 due to the arrival of ten new men in uniform, prospects appear much brighter than they did earlier In the month, when it seemed as if the large ineligibility list would c1•ush the· Garnet football hopes for the season. However, a:lthough the situation is rosier, the competition will be tougher ·than it has been in many years. \Villiams, Amherst, Hobart, and Rochester, all gave Union plenty of trouble last year and with few men lost, they should prove even more formidable this fall. Hamilton, too, has practically the same team they sent to Schenectady last November, and although they were not porten- tious then, with a season~s experience behind them, the Buff and Blue boys may furnish the Dutchmen with the sternest opposition of the season. Speaking of football, have you seen the twenty ill' so youngsters, ages 11 to 14 years, who gaze in studious attention at the varsity practices'? If not, .perhaps you have seen these same ymmgsters \working out\ in the college meadow about 6 o'clock in the evening. Calisthenics a la Art Lawrence style form the first part of the rou- tine. Next the new plays gleaned from the college eleven are thor- oughly rehearsed, and then put into practice. First class scrimmages are held daily, and the teams seem to be in fme physical shape. One of these future Granges or Thorpes has been sh01ving some real kicking· ability, booting the pigskin as far as 30 yards in one kick. It looks as though Freshman Coach Nitchman once again will have an undefeated team, if the 40 enthusiastic candidates who answered the call for football have anything to do with it. The men are not all green either, many having had experience on high and prep school teams. There are some .big men in the group too, and they should cause the varsity plenty of wony when they meet in a few days . Varsity Harl'iers Speed Over Three Mile Course Although Coach Ketz was in a slightly pessimistic mood concern- ing both the freshman and varsity cross-country tea:ms before practice yesterday afternoon, he has bright- ened up considerably since the fine showing of his varsity harriers in their last workout. Running over the three-mile course yesterday afternoon, six men crossed the finish line under 18 minutes. Bob North, running his third year under Ketz turned in the best run of his career. He finished fourth in slightly over 17 and a half minutes. The six runners breaking the tape under 18 minut;::s were Bill Hawkes, Harry Meyers, Ed Bastedo, Bob North, Bob Everest, and Sam Hewitt. Six Mile Run This afternoon the varsity will run the six-mile course and will have Saturday free. The showing of the frosh team still leaves much to be hoped for in future sessions. Although twelve men had reported to Coach Ketz earlier in the week the number has dwindled to ten with two more expected to turn their interests to other activities in the near future, The full freshman roster as it now stands includes, Thompson, Myers, Stewart, Parker, Falkner, Boyce, Fredericks, Welles and Sheffer. The track mentor hopes that this list will be increased rather than diminished in the next few days. SEASON TICKETS This year the Athletic Depart- ment will offer to the students, faculty, and the general public the opportunity of purchasing season tickets for the football games, The ticket will sell for $5.00 and include all four home games. They entitle the holder to a reserved seat and prefer- ences for seats will be filled as far as possible by the Athletic Department. Tickets will be mail- ed to the purchasers in ample time for the contests scheduled. FRANK FERRARO Fruit and Produce The best, for the least, witl1 dependable service. 1231 Crane St. Tel. 2-7828-W Y oo're the Man We Want! An established College Shop is the lo9ical place to find authentic apparel for the College man! New Langrock Suits for Fall emphasize this self· evident fact. University accepted for their fine custom details ofhand tailoring •• their campus syle dominance •• their exclusively desi9ned fabrics • • • their all around c:omfort-Langrock Suits for Fall point the way to well·dressecf students who must yet be ec· onomically guided. If you REALLY WANT to dress better • • • NOT spend more. YOU'RE THE MAN WE WANT! $40 bANe; ROCK ELM STREEl AI ~ALE CAMPUS Collegt Shops 41: Y41t, ll4ri'4ra, Prmre11Jti, Brown. WH/tamt, Andov~r, Bx•llr, 149 Bro4dwa), Net/1 York City Tennis Regulcttions 1. All players MUST wear TEN- NIS SHOES with soft pliable soles. (Basketball a:nd other types of shoes are not accept- able.) 2. Students and Faculty only shai'l be permitted the use of the courts. 3. Doubles should be played whenever possible so as to in- sUl:e use of the courts to the max:imum number of players, 4. If persons are waiting to play, both singles and doubles matches are to be permitted to finish their set before vacating. In the event that the set goes . to ·deuce, play shaH stop at , once. 5. The tennis courts will close on week-day'! at 6:00 P. M. . 6. Play on Sunday shaH be re- . stricted to the hours o:f 1 p. m. · to 5:30 p. m., and all players must be dressed in a CLEAN WI:IITE COSTUME. . 7. Workmen engaged ln repair- ing or marking the C()Urts are to be permitted to complete their task before play can ' start. 8. The caretaker shall be sole judge as to the use of the courts after rainy weather. 9. Children of the Faculty Mem- bers shall be permitted the use of the courts if any are vacant but NEVER to the exclusion of the two above named gt·oups. 10. Use of the indoor court on the gymnasium floor will be re- served for the varsity squad when inclement weather pro- hibits their practice outdoors. 11. Violators of the above rules will be denied the privilege of usi.ng the courts. Patr()nize Our Advertisers! Notes On Our Contemporaries Three (Continued· from Page 2) hours a week reading newspapers, magazines and books. Fish For $3, Wesley Webb, former swimming team captain at the Uni- ver::;ity of Minne:>ota ::JWam 225 feet under water, or three lengths of the Gopher tank. His time was 55 sec- onds. Reaction \Gee I won't be able to go to the J-Hop,\ was the exclamation of an Alma College after being !:leverely burned on the hands from an ex- .plosion in chemistry Jab. Prohibition Young me·n's paradi::;e-the Uni- versity of North Dakota: The Sen- ior Prom committee recently ruled that no cor::Jages could be worn. As!{ Any Senior Going to college and getting an. education are not always synonym- ous terms-Dean Stone, West Vit'- ginia Univer::Jity. nlajority Itules In a questionnaire given to U stu- dents at Ohio Wesleyan University 38 declared there was something wrong with the present economic system. Relics \Jokes are the oldest things on earth,\-Prof. Richard Marvin, of Northwestern University who has been collecting and cataloguing them for many years. JAMES E. DAY, Optician Fill or Duplicate Prescriptions General Repair Work 604 Union St., Cor. BruTett St. 3 Blocks Below College Gate PHONE 2-3464 RECORDS LATEST SONG HITS RECORDED BY VICTO·R AND DECCA H. S. BARNEY C·O. PHONE 4-8411 Union College BOOKSTORE Room \5\ Administratk\ Building TEXTBOOKS IN STOCK FOR ALL COURSES Do your purchasing early College: Seal Jewelry Pennants Pillows 13anners Plaques Die-Stamped Stationery Fraternity: Banners and Plaques COMPLETE LINE OF FOUNTAIN PENS. FEATURING PARKERS\ SLIDE RULES. LAUNDRY CASES On Display NEW REMINGTON PORTABLE TYPEWRITER DESK Hours-1st 6 weeks 8:45-12:30 1:00-5:00 Regular Hours: 8:45-12:00 1:15- 5:00

I I, ' ... i j ! l Four THE CONCORDtENSIS, FRIDAY, SE:PTE:BIBER 20, 1935 Stewart Publishes I Ligon Sees Chan~es ·New German Text 1 For Cultural Life NYA Approves Grant omist, is Jbst oE six European le~- Service Bureau Program turer s to arl'lve at Notre Dame Um- versity fQI' a course o-f Jectt1res . College Librarian Regrets Departure From Campus I <Continued from Page 1) • , * (Continued from Page 1) . being 35 cents an hour, and the A uni-t ().f ~4 girls will enter Mt. fraternities and the two dorrruto 1 rn- (Continued from Page 1 > time ranging from 28 to 56 hours- Holyolte tll.is V/Oelt as members of a ies every evening about 9:30. . rema·in in one place if one is even- Associate Professor to Pre· \Intellectual Oppo1 tunities at This. year•. in order· t.o facllilat.e new two-unit study plan.. Each girl addition to the 1aund1:V: serv1ce tually to move away.\ Union\ was the subject of Professor t~e dtspos1t.10n of avarlable po::sl· will be allowed• to chaos~ tw? sub- which is to ·be greatly rmp,roved· Mr. Brewster, who is a graduate Ernest M. Ligon's speech to fresh- tro?s, a mimeographed questbn· jects, to which sl:Je will gtv~ drrectly this year, will be E: newspaper de- of Trinity College and a member of sent \Graphic !Review of Ger- man Grammar\ This Fall men in Memorial Chapel Sunday nane has to be completely filled -out the major portle>n of her time. livery and periodical set·vtce. They th p i Upsilon fraternity, was ·ap- afternoon. \It talte<l all kinds of and handed in before any applicaont -~ ' • will provide the students with cur- ~ s l'brarian at Union College men to make a class and in all can be considered. This sheet cov· A new undergraduate department rent issues of popular newspapers P~H~·ted 1 . ,.ago Before he came A new textbook \A G·taphic Re· pr·obability they're. all he:e:'.' stated ers information concerning loans for the trainiz:g. of young ~en. and and ~agazines. The Bureau i~ also ~~g t :e~~rked. for a time in the view of German Grammar\ writte-n the p\ychology professot, a.nd. al- and scholarships, otl~er employ· wome;t for pol1lL<JS and pu?l~c. h~~ I~ planning- to conduct a concesswn at. N~~~ Y~rk StAtP lihr.ary in Alba:ny. by Morton C. Stewart, associate I chvubh chc \~~~ ~\\'.l\. ~tuu~~ ul ~ ,a •. ·t.:ul, awl fam.tly <:unuillun~. Tll, I cstal>h~hcd a.t \])c~lple t:nner-l.t~ ., the fall football games, aonu tu uff<n I D .· th time that Mr. Brewster l.Jrofessor of German will be pub· much ah.ke,. the tnd~~iduals m the applicant is asked ~he minimum The project em.bodres an e~tensrv~ Christmas Cards to the students h un~g n ehere the college library l!shPd hy HarpPr Rrnt.lwr\ thi\ groups dtffer wtdely_ amount of Federal a1d he needs to program o:f trar:olng an.d researc thio wintPr . as . ee ed b. the appreciable I ~t<ty m culle!5\· am! tl1e pu1·vu:;e modeled afteL· -tbe O~ord Univer· One of the main rea-sons tor m- hu\ lllt e;~ 5 OOO~ volumes and sev~ year·. This book is a concise state· \At one end of every gt·aduating fur which he will use any a:i<l he sity pia~ -£_or ·prepanng youth ~or str'tuting this Bureau was the fact az:noluvna·luoa·ble'collections, including ment of the essPntials of gr·anum:u class,\ continued Dr. Ligon, \are the I . 1 d h p m g<>vernmental affairs t' era and syntax which ate nece:;saq· men who have done something in m£;o~~ce~i~h the questionnaire is ~!l'i~r:st\ewiadltnbgt.;_oecclaolurasgeencies wili t,.·nhatthme upchastof h~~e :~~~e~o s .. :U. ~~~~ tnheectJaodhynHHr·sotworar·cradlPcaoyllnecetfo~~. S~~:~ for ease in reading and speaking college. At ~he oli1er end ru·e the . d f d . d ..... ~ German. goocl-for-nothmgs, the false proph reqmre a statement 0 nee srgue · coopera e •· , • · establishments. ins.teda of atdmg a been added. The exercises arP in the form <>f connected PXpositiun co\'l•J in;; >'llch topics as: German Verein life, travels, concert£, stores in Gr\'r- nlany, airplanes, auto..,, canot· trip>. moving pic'tures, and similar top\. The vocabulary is thct·efor·e pi uc· tical and modern with few unusual words. The usc uf diagt·anls pr·c· sents to the student a clear view of the subject which is mor·e easily remembered than wl'itten ex.pla n· at ions. by parent ur guardian as a certifi· d t t n ets, and those who put social con· cation that assistance is essen Hal Wellesley- ·College registers today ss~tl.~I~e~n~~o~r~g~a~n~l;z~al;O;;· ;:=;:=;;;;;;;;;;:=;:=;;;;;;:;:=;;;:=;:=;;~~==~=TI tacts before the main things,\ By tlti:; measure it is hopeli that the smallest freshman class since ~ \If you want to grow dudng your undeserving cases will not be allow· the war. The sCJall class of 390 is 0 -- -- . PLEDGE NOTICE Alpha Phi Delta announces tl!e additional pledging of: Michael Ot· toleva, Schenectady; Josl'ph An· nese, New York City; Louis Corn· tnenza, Bridgeport, Conn,; Dumintt' I DeLisa, Scilc·nedat!y. uf the da~o uf college career, yo·u must take stock ed to fill positions which are in· limited to make 11P for the 450 girls of yourself and find where your tPndl•d fui· ..,tudPnt~ a{'tually nePd· admitted last ye:ar. weak and strong po-ints are. Music 1 · 11 \ a 1 'd • ' • '\\ · The New York University Wash- add~ much to your caTeer. If yo-u --- -o---- !'ngton Square C· allege announces do not find pleasure in the higher C 11 Q U arts th.e fault is in yourself. 0 ege pens · p the establishment of a new four- year curriculutn of music leading \The college spirit results from (What Other Colleges Are Doing as to an A. B. degree. the fact that evf'r·yUnion man helps the Year '35-'36 Begins) his fellow:;. True- l!nion men are de- termined to help society. Such a 670 freshmen arrived yesterday at spirit needs fine leadership and no Dartmouth to herald opening of student body is greater than its· school on Thursday. Student body members. It takes all sorts of men I of 2,40() is expected. to make a. class and they're prob·l A * 11 * \t · d · t d ably all here .. verage enro men IS pre IC .e · at Middlebury, and 180 freshm-en 0 · I plan to register on September 23_ * * * COAT L()ST City College of New York will be· ___ gin the new year with 190 separate -------0·---~-. FE:NCIN (l NOTICE Sophomores, juniors, and seniors who are interested in being on the intramural -intercollegiate fencing team are a::slted to report to Mr. Von Forstmeyer at the gymnasium on Wednesday-, September 25, between 1939. A IPWai•l for th<· It'! tun .,f a' courses in 231 sections. .. • * 1 lno•vn ch•·d<<'d <W<'I'C'<Jat. f\ngla.n Lafayette College freshman arlen· Phi Gamma DP!ta announ .. <>s t ht· ,1£',.ws anti pit-at <'<I back, with Jnn· tation begins Thursday and wil.l last three and five Ill. the afternoon. One year of exper·ien.<:e in fencing is re- quired. pledging of: Guy Gra V<'s, '37. Sche- \''n and Fanin);ton label on inside until September 23. nectady; and. Jay O'Brien, '39, AI· pockl't, has h<'t'n offt•r••d by C. * • * THE Printing Where Union always are men welcome. CAZETTE Engraving PRESS Binding bany. · p,.\·•·ll at the Delta. Phi Hnu>'t'. Christopher Hollis, English econ· . -------- ·-- ---------------- • Freshmen whe>- would lilte to take up fencing are asked to report to Mr. Von Forstrneyer on Monday, September 23, ·be·tween 3 and 5 p. m. at the gymnasll.l.m. -----~-~~:=~:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=;;;:_;;;:_;;;_;;;:_;;;:_:;;;;; __ :::;;:;;~~- :;;;;;===:=:=:=:=:::;;;:;;;:~=::=::! , . e don't know what MR. COCHRANE smokes and he is not en·dorsing our cigarette but he is an outstanding man in the baseball world and has won llis place on merit In the cigarette world, Chesterfields are thought of as outstanding ... -they ha'ue 'lt'On their place strictly on merit .. for mildness for better taste @ 1935, LIGGETT & :Mnms TOBACCO Co, MICKEY COCHRANE-of the Detroit Tigers. American League Champions; player•manager, one of baseball's greatest catchers. ! i Vol. LIX., No ... ~Dr\ Fox. . .~· Secondar~ Heads a1 President Urg1 Education E Smaller, Gi Selection Tells Superin Our School S) Reorganize< Demanding tha: be limited to th potential \headw profit by it, Dr. told the New Yor School Superinter nual meeting at : night, that the tiona! system sho· to train student they can actuaL than to force UI inately an \equa l:lecome leaders, 1 fessional men. · The .American : Fox explained, h; on a misunderstar ian democratic Jefferson's plan c: of careful selecti c-ase for higher always to be est was granted.\ Fads Fitte The operation c cation laws and American enthusi change the facts tutions has rever \It has been n« cause why any should not be ; school and kept short of an alieni: acc·epted as cor that an academic stopped.\ Becam had enjoyed a c: it was supposed 1 versa! classical make everyone lE The logical rE Fox explained, w' fying American y 14 into prospec and handworkerE always done th prided ourselves tion of Indepen• classification of ica. To reverse century a:nd a that we have beE rope right, req1 courage or docile Challenges 'To Dr. Fox cited ment of Willia:m tendent of school \ringing challeng educational syst showed that four- high school stud would not go on curriculum was the pretense that He proposed tha1 be changed to fi· of its youth, on With the :presen: school, the rest gram \devised t« understanding a their lives as ar· laborers.\ \I doubt if sue be generally ac• good many yea1 pointing to the dice on the part having their chile as \handworkerE the difficulties in scientific tests c believe that unle: ifl.catioh is worke our secondary ec in bewilderment. Colleges A In colleges 1 llChools, the doc education for a become strongly idea has been pr young man and ' a chance at coli« main in college city was proved tient trial.\ Tho rested on the co Two factors h this gener!).l rei tiona! standards, have to face le~ porting voters ' much selection. ·1 over-expanded • plated twenties;' (Continue!

of ge he ry .... ve • • Vol. LIX., No. 3 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY,.N. Y., TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1935 PRICE FIVE CENTS New Librarian .,. ·Dr. Fox Addresses .. ·secondary School Heads at Saranac Significant Quotations From Dr. Fox's Address College Undergoes F·1·eshmen Will Be G~ests . A }· R· . t• . At Annual Smoker Fr1day .. · nnua · · enova Ion.. . ·Bronner to Succeed ·.Brewster as Acting College Librarian ··During V t • . : The Union College Christian Asso- R C a I() n· elation wm hold its first socla:l func- : tion of the year Friday night when P1·esident Urges That Higher Education Be Limited to Smaller, Gifted G1·oup Selection Necessary \When the demand exceeded · the supply, not a few unfit men . were unlisted on college staffs, and no doubt it would be · cheaper for the country to put them on a generous. dole than to confide to them the instruc- . ion of college students. in accordance with its custom of . Redecoration of Old Chapel, many years, it will play host to the B 'ld' f' 0 s·t 'entire freshman class at a smoker Ul mg 0 pen age, in Silliman Hall from 7:30· to 9:00. Reported by Houdley Fred Wyatt, assistant secretary of the Graduate Council and co- ordinator of student activities; Nel- Modernize Heating Plant son Nitchman, coach of basketball,' and freshman football; and Robert North, prominent in student activ- Assistant History Professor Officially Assumes Work October First Union Graduate Tells Superintendents That Our School System Must Be Reorganized for Future \There are bright and able young men who have a blind . spot for some subject tradition- ally required for college en- trance.\ . New Type Radiators Replace itie.s, and wol'ld traveler, will be the speakers. FREDERICK L. BRGNNER Phi Beta Kappa Member Was Active Musician, Athlete, Scholar and Editor Demanding tha:t highet· education be limited to the small group of potential \headworket who can profit by It, Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox told the New York State Council of School Superintendents at their an- nual meeting at Saranac Lake last night, that the American educa- tional system should be reorganized to train students for the future \We have turned away more 'legally qualified' applicants (for admission) than ever before in our history.\ \Americans have prided them- selves that the Declaration of Independence vetoed all classi- fication of society ... \ ·, · they can actually expect, rather than to force upon all indiscrim- inately an \equal opportunity\ to !Jecome leaders, scholars, and pro- fessional men. \After a century and a half, to . . . declare that we have been wrong, require<l either high courage or a docile indiffer- ence ... \ \All colleges have to do is to lower their standards of ad- mission and they can pay their salary rolls. If they succumb to this temptation ... it will mean a decline in American scholar- ship and culture.\ 'l · The American school system, Dr. Fox explained, has been developed on a misunderstanding of Jefferson- ian democrati-c theory. Actually Jefferson's plan called for a scheme of careful selection,, \in which the case for higher opportunity had always to be established before it was granted.\ Facts Fitted to Theory The operation of compulsory edu- cation laws and the characteristic American enthusiasm for trying to change the facts of life to fit insti- tutions has reversed the emphasis. \It has been necessary to show cause why any American child should not be admitted to high school and kept there.\ Nothing short of an alienist's certificate was acc·epted as conclusive evidence that an academic career should be stopped.\ Because former leaders had enjoyed a classical education, it was supposed to follow that uni- versal classical education would make everyone leaders. The logical reorganization, Dr. Fox: explained, would mean \classi- fying Amer·ican youth at the age of 14 into prospective headworkers and handworkers. Europeans have always done this, but we have prided ourselves that the Declara- tion of Independence vetoed all classification of society for Amer- ica. To reverse ourselves after a century a:nd a half, and declare that we have been wrong and Eu· rope right, requires either high courage or docile indifference.\ Challenges 'Topheavy' System Dr. Fox cited the recent state- ment of Willi~m~ J. Bogan superin- tendent of schools in Chicago as a \ringing challenge\ to our topheavy educational system. Mr. Bogan showed that four-fifths of Chicago's high school students could not or would not go on to college; yet the curriculum was largely based on the pretense that all were going on. He proposed that Chicago's system be changed to fit the actua:l needs of its youth, one fifth continuing With the :present type of high school, the rest under a new pro- gram \devised to fit them for the understanding and enjoyment of their lives as artisans, clerks, and laborers.'' \I doubt if such a reform would be generally acceptable within a good many years,\ said Dr. Fox, pointing to the traditional preju- dice on the part of parents against having their children openly cla·ssed as \handworkers and in view of the difficulties in devising accurate, scientific tests of ability. \But I believe that unless some such class- ification is worked out and adopted, our secondary education will go on in bewilderment.\ Colleges Also Affected In colleges as well as high llChools, the doctrine of identical education for all Americans has become strongly entrenched. The idea has been preva:lent that every young man and woman should have a chance at college, and should re- main in college \until his incapa- Seniors Named For. Publication Board Five Candidates Nominated; Krull Appoints Sophomore Discipline Committee At the first and unusually well attended student body meeting held. Monday in the Old Chapel four seniors, George N. Melinette, Arthur J. Firth, John L. Hallenback, and William Milne, were nominated for the position of Seniot· Member of the Publications Board. The elec- tion is to take place at the meeting next week. Charles Krull, who, as president of the student body, pre- sided over the meeting, announced that the sophomore discipline com- mittee for this year would consist of Vincent Smith, John Wold, Fred- erick Hawley, Samuel Farr, John Endicott, and Grant Smith. All of the nominees for the posi- tion on the Publications Board have been prominent in campus ac- tivities. Melinette was editor-in- chief of the 1936 Garnet. Firth is the leader of the Band, member of the Mountebanks, and was the manager of the Studio Players. Hellenback was managing editor of last year's Garnet and is also a member of the French Club. Milne, active in the German Club and the Psychology Club, was on the cheer- ing staff in his sophomore year. Krull, while addressing the mass of freshmen assembled in the gal- iery, admonished them to speak to upperclassmen, whom they met on the campus, first, since, as he put it, \after all you are just freshmen around here.\ COLLEGE TO HEAR MUSIC Beginning this afternoon at 3:30 and continuing every Tuesday at the same time throughout the year there will be held a 'Music Hour' at which time students and faculty of the college may have an oppor· tunity to ~ear their favorite selec- tion, symphonic or otherwise as played by the Capehart reproduc- tion machine, It is hoped that the student body will see fit to take advantage of this time as it will provide an hour not only for pleasure and amuse- ment, but relaxation as well, This will be th only time that the ma- chine will be available to students not taking Music Appreciation un- less special permission be obtained from Dr. Tidmarsh, city was proved by a full a:nd pa- tient trial.\ The burden of proof CALENDAR rested on the college.\ Tomorrow Two factors have contributed to Daily Assembly -Walter Wil- this general relaxation of educa- iams, president of the Outing tiona! standards. State universities Club. · have to face legislatures and sup- ThUl'Sd.ay porting voters who frown on too Daily Assembly - Address by much selection . .Private institutions, Rev, T, D. Mutch. over-expanded during the \gold- Frlda.y plated twenties,\ have been .tempt- ·. Daily .Assembly-Dr. Tidmarsh, (Continued ~n Page 4) Old Pipes; Thermostatic Control Included Plans for the affair, now under . wa:y, include the singing of college songs under the direction of Robert VVells, leader of the Glee Club, with A report of the improvements Charles Reid accompanying. Re- made on the campus this summer heshments will be served at the was issued yestetday by Anthony conclusion of the program. Prepar- Hoadley, comptroller of the college, a.tions are being made by William which included interior renova- Green and Gerard Neumann. tions, new paving, and changes in' the heating ~ystem, Among the improvements made is the redecorating of the Old Chapel. The walls and ceiling were painted in colo!' selected by Dr. Fox; and all of the woodwork ex- cept the pews was cleaned and var- nished. The lighting fixtures were removed and replaced by indirect fixtures which were especially de- signed to harmonize with the style of the woodwork in the building. A projection screen was mounted ---<0·--- Larrabee Analyzes MiUion Word Book Pareto's \Mind and So<!iety\ Reviewed This Month. by The Union Profess()!' on the wall in back of the spea:ker's To review a four-volume work stand where it can be used without nea.r.Iy one million words long by the inconvenience of having a spe- the man whom Mussolini has ac- cial screen hung in front of the ·claimed as \his old teacher,\ the stand. Oil portraits hung on the late Marquis Vilfredo Pareto, was walls of the first floor add to the the assignment which fell to Pro- color of the room. These portraits fessor Harold A. Larrabee this sum- are illuminated by a special fixture :mer in his capacity as book editor mounted under the balcony. of the Journal of Philosophy. The The obsolete heating system in res'Ult was recently published as the the old Chapel building wa·s re- leading article of the September placed with a new two-pipe system 12th issue of that publication under using a new type of radiator and the title \Pareto a:nd the Philoso- thermostatic control. The system phet•s.\ was designed by Mr. Hoadley. The work in question is entitled The steam main running to the ••The Mind and Society,\ written Chi Psi Lodge has been renewed just before the Wm·Jd War, and as the fraternity is buying steam. jus't translated into English. under from the college for the coming the direction of Professor .Arthur heating season. Livingston of Columbia University. Civil Engineers Attend Outing at Taylor Farm Approximaately forty civil engin- eering students, eight or ten facul- ty members and their wives, and Dr. and Mrs. Fox attended the an- nual fall outing of the civil engin- eers which was held at Professor Taylor's farm near Duane Lake, Friday. The affair was sponsored by the faculty members and their wives in conjunction with the stu- dent chapter of the American So- ciety of Civil Engineers. A lively volley ball game was held in the early part of the even- ing, featured by the sterling \close net\ play of Professor Hall and the a:ce services of Dr. Palermo. Shortly after six o'clock, however, the games broke up for the still more enjoyable atmosphere of roast corn, frankfurters and rolls, baked beans, cakes, cookies, and fruit. Follow- ing a hearty repast the group re- paired to the house and Michael Fiore '36, pt esident of the student chapter, opened the meeting. The professors present were each called upon to speak a few words, and following that, Fiore called upon each of the senior's to recount their summer activities along en- gineering lines. Committees were . appointed to arrange a program for the coming year, and to for- mulate a new constitution for the chapter. Plans for a joint meeting with R. P. I. were discussed. --o---- The appointment of Professor Frederick L. Bronner of the divi- sion of social studies as a·cting li- brarian of Union College to succeed James Brewster has been an- nounced by President Dixon Ryan Fox. Professor Bronner will con- tinue his work as assistant profes- sor of history when he officially as- sumes his new position on October first, the date when Mr. Brewster leaves the campus to assume his new position as assistant sta:te li- brarian of Connecticut. A graduate of Union College in the class of 1923, with the degree of bachelor of science, Professor Bronner received the degree of master of arts from Harvard Uni- versity in 1925. He was an instruc- tor in history at Union dut·ing 1923- 1924 and 1925-1928; then was an as- sista:nt in history at Harvard and Radcliffe from 1928 to 1930 when he received his present position of assistant professor of history at Union. Author of Articles He has been the author of several published articles including ''Sche- nectady in the Civil War\ in the History of Schenectady, \Union College in the West\ in the New York State History, and \Marlnus Willett\ in the same periodical, the latter of which is to be published this year, and has given four lec- tures ~inee la·:;t June. Considered a specialist in the field of Amer- ican history, he is a member of the Outdoor Stage Constructed Early in the summer an outdoor stage was constructed at the north end of the Graduate Council Field for the use of the Mohawk Drama Festival. The design for the stage has proved to be satisfactory. Although Pareto has been called the \Karl Marx of the bout•geoisie,\ and predicted the advent of fascism 20 years ago, it is doubtful whether his influence upon Mussolini was r-eally very great, since the la:tter only listened to a few of his lec- WGY to Broadcast American Historical Association and the N. Y. State Historical Asso- . elation. Debates on Campus During his undergraduate days at · Union, Mr. Bronner became a mem- The interior of the house now occupied by Dr. Danton was en- tirely redecorated and new oak floors were laid. tures. ·Record Number of Freshmen Discourages Sucial Physics Attend Initial Meeting of Forensic Group ber of the Delta Upsilon fraternity, and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and the Hale Club. Active in many student activities, he won his letter in basketball, was a member of the Glee Club, Choir, Mandolin Club, the Band, and the Jazz Band. He The auditorium of the Chemistry Laboratory was painted and new cloth was put in place ovet· the acoustical insulation on the walls. A number of other rooms in the Chemistry Laboratory were re- painted and a few rooms in North Collonade were redecorated. Professor Larrabee regards the imrnense labors of Pareto \to bring human irrationality within the scope of a manageable rational system\ as one more vain attempt to construct a. soda! physics, which fails because \social facts\ are un- Like the facts of the physical sci- ences. He holds that Pareto \by sticking doggedly to a half-hearted behaviorism, and narrowing the logical virtually to what can be pointed out to the human eye as scientifically useful, poses, but leaves unsolved, the key-problem of n1ethod in the social studies: how can we completely illuminate hu- .ruan conduct, internally as well as ~xternally, avoiding error within as surely as without?\ was Literary editor of the 1923 All home debates for the coming Garnet, was a member of the Soph- year will be broadcast directly from omore Soiree Committee, Frosh Memorial Chapel at eleven o'clock Peerade Committee, Class Stunt a. m., according to an announce- Committee, and Class Hat Commit- ment made last night by Fred Wy- . tee. As a sub freshman, he entered att, coach of debating, at the inl- Union from Richfield Springs High tial meeting of the Phllomathean School, Richfield Springs, N. Y. Society, held In the Old Chapel. A Makes Statement for Press record number of Freshmen attend- Outside painting done during the· summer consists of: Noz th College, South College, Dt. KPllogg's house .. ed the meeting, which was presided When interviewed, Mr. Bronner over by Carl Olsen, president. stated that his hobby is vacation- Two new pi~ces of side walk were laid; one a conc!'ete walk from North Lane to Lenox Road, the other a black top walk fror:u Old Gym Dotlll to the Administra- tion Building. Open Season With Skidmore ing although he hadn't had one in 10 years. He likes to read novels, ';['he first forensic encounter of he said, and travel. An ardent base- the year for the Uni·on team is to ball fan, he is hindered ·by the fact be with Skidmore Oct. 14, and the that good baseball teams seldom topic as announced is \Resolved' play in Schenectady. that the place for women is prim- o---- College to Inaugurate Competition In Amateur Photography This Year arily in the home\. Union will up- hold the negative side of the ques- tion. Other home debates as sched- uled are: Bowdoin on Nov. 11 or 18, Massachusetts Institute of Tec:b.- nolo,gy on December 9, Elmira Col- lege on January 13, Rutgers Col- lege on. February 10, University of Buffalo on March 9, Harvard Uni- W ALLACE T. FOOTE versity on April 13, and with Welles- Feell 'ng that photogJ·aphy at Un <>f en· try in the c~mpetllt'on, the ley College on May 11. The tentative ion has been too long neglected~ college ha.s permissl~n to reproduce Out-of-Town Schedule is: Middle- the college is this year inaugurating any photograph submitted by the bury and Dartmouth on November a photographic competition which contestants. The college b~ select, 1 • Williams on Januat·y 1 8, Hamil- is to be opened to all alumni and ed as judges: A. Bantham. '24, E. ton on February 8, and Amherst, undergraduates who are Interested.· S. C. Smith, and James S. Green, Wesleyan and Smith on March 23· No entry fee is to be imposed, and and all entries will be judged im- 2 5-24. As announced by Fred Wy- the only restriction on the entrants mediately following the closing date att the following additions or sub- will be that the subject of the pho- of the competition. stitutes may be made: Fordham, tograph must be Union College 01' Novel Competition at 'Union University of Rochester, University its various• activities. The finished This is the first time in recent of Vermont, R. P. I. and Wells Col- prints mu.st also be mounted on years that a competiUon of this sort lege. light colored cardboard measuring has been held at Union. [t is .felt Many Freshmen Attend either 11 by 14 inches, 14 by 18 that such a competition will be in- The freshmen attending the meet- inches, or 16 by 20 inches, and tel:'esting to students and outsiders ing were: Stephen Grey, Francis should be delivered or mailed to the as an example of what the college Juracka, Bernard Krause, Max Len, Photographic Committee, Graduate can do in the field of photography, Ellis Eisenstein, David Yunich, Lan Council, Union College, Schenectady, beside stimulating an interest in Barringer, Tom Pritchard, Joseph on or ·before Monday, September 30. that art among the undergraduates. Clifford, Frank Nolte, .Averill Stew- Awards Will Be Made Many other colleges, among them art, Frank Van pyke, and Anthony Prizes will be awarded for the Skidmore, have included photo- Barbieri. · three photographs which in the ·op- graphy or art in its other forms The veteran debaters present inion of the judges are the. best of uf drawing, painting and sculpting were: Carl Olsen, president, those .submitted, and ribbon.s will among the activities· offered to the Charles Reeves, Robert Everest, be given for those prints which re- · •Undergraduates, with frequent ex- Burns Barford, Clark Cummings, ceive honorable mention, All pho- ·hiblts at which some of the entries Harold Friedman, Arnold pubb, tographs submitted however, will are sold. Union, through this com-·. Robert Madigan, Richard Snyder, be placed on exhibition ·during the . petition will have opened up the. Guy Graves, Charles Honikel, Paul College Week-End this Fall, and · field here, and should go .as fat• in- Goldberg, William Leonard, and again at Commencement. J3y virtue .to It as these other lnstit~tlon~. Mort Yulman. Outing Club Gets Soaked As Shower Traps Hikers The Outing Club took to the shel- ter of the nearest trees available Sunday afternoon when a torrent of rain suddenly broke loose from the sky. Atop one of the hills south of Rotterdam at the time of the storm, the hikers found the rain soon pene- trated the foliage .and began to soak their garments. Without a break in the downpour, the sun finally came out and a double rainbow appeared over the Mohawk which many members of the expedition declared to be the brightest they had ever seen. Having become more or less soak- ed to the skin, the group trekked down over the country to Freddy Wyatt's so-called \tin-lizzie\ and drove to Lock 7 to witness the ac- tual operation of the lock while two sections of barges passed through. Jack Bergstrom '38 found it neces- sary to outdo whatever high jump record he had ever made when after hopping a barge, he found the deck slowly falling below the level of the lock wall. The local hike Sunday was made only after plans for the overnight hike to Lake George had fallen through because of Saturday's showers. The trip to Lake George, however, will be made at some later date.

'; ·' l :,d Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1935 \FILL 'ER UP?\ ilirnsis \A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ FOUNDED 1877 I935 Member 1936 1=\ssociated CoUe6iaie Press Distributor of Colle 5iate Di6est We have heard of colleges with experi- mental farms and machine shops, hotel courses and baby tending, even plumbing, but ,Union and her gas station have reached a new mark in practical education. Or ])61'- haps the gas is to be sold and the proceeds added to our endowment. Anyway, we won- der who will be in charge. It is our natul'e to be curious. Presenting: The Faculty Words About Music BY ARTHUR \VALLACE HEPNER We believe that there is much wit and humor, good advice and sage counsel, and miscellaneous nuggets of wisdom which never get outside the classroom's confines. To check such reckless waste of talent, this issue of The Concordiensis inaug- urates a new department devoted solely to the most neglected group in college, the professors. Gentle- men, we give you: the Faculty. \Tell Mr. Blank to co'me to class someday so that he and I may get Bach and Ji~-anck, and Tidma1•sh acqua1nted.\ Five imptessive works, eac~ in o o o ·o Its own rjaht worthy of consider- DI ·• Wat\ngPr--Breaks do.wn and, \' · d th pr· h able expatiation, comprise _ · e a- confesses- \At what should be ~ e gram for the second of Dt·. Elmer A. principle function of an EJ?gl~sh Tidmarsh's weekly Sunday after- teacher, conveying- an appreciatiOn noon ol'gan recitals. Bach, Saint- of great literature, I fall down com- Saens, Jongen, and Franck were the pletely. I can do no more than composers 1 .ep!'esented, Bach hold- read it and say, \Isn't that wonder- ing the centr:'al position with two Sole aw.l €XPlusi\'P national advertbiltg I'elH~t>SCil lU t IVl'S XA'l'IOX.\L ,\U\'l~llTlSI:-:0 SEH\'ll'E, lllL'. 4~U ~latlisuu Avenue :-:~w York l'lty tCb\rago ~ I~o~ton - ~nn lt'ranci::-;t·u - Lu~ .\ngclt'~ · !'urtlaud - Seattle ------~ The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fridays throughout the college year, except during Christmas and spring recesses. --------------------- Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenecta<ly, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter ---~ Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.0() a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Senior Boa1·d Van Vechten Trumbull ........ Editor-in-Chief Delta Phi l!uU$e--4-Uo45 Robert 0. Nelson ............ Business Manager Kawu Alt1ha J,uclge--4-~122 John D. Anderson .......... Managing Editor \'sl l'psilun llouse--4-S71U Albert H. Stevenson ........... Sports Editor l'si t·p~tlon lluu~e--4 ... ~710 Robert C. North ................. News Editor D~ltn Cpstlon House-4-l!:f:.!:! Wallace T. Foote .. , ....... , ... Feature Editor .o\lpha lldta l'hl !Iuu$e~{uo~~ Daniel B. Wohl ........... Circulation Manager KaVIJU );u Huusc -4- <3:11 Junior Board ASSOCIATE F.J>ITORS Milton Bedell Ral:ph Cohen Fenton Gage Richard Passenger Richard Snyder Carlton Garrison J. Bundgus R. Doig W. Dean Sophomore Board Assistant Editors H. Enzer H. C. Trahman M. Hartmann Muroff R. Ferguson Issue Editor. .. ............. Fenton Gage Assistant Issue Editors C. T1~ahman Tuesday, September 24, 1935 BETWEEN THE LINES R. Doig The addt·ess which President Fox delivered at the meeting of the New York State Coun- cil of School Superintendents last night is 'WOrthy of careful study, not only for its thought-provoking analysis of the American educational system, but also fm· the insight which it provides concerning the college's policy. President F'ox makes it quite clear that there will lle no relaxing of standards, either for entrance to or exit from. llnion College on account of a de;;ire to live on a pre-depres- Sion scale. •·we have turned away more 'leg-ally qualified' applicants than ever before in our history, and taken in a little less than we WGUld like to take.\ The tuition fees of those refl.k;ed admittance to Cnion would have helped to run the collegP, hut they would also hm·e been an entering wedge--a camel's nose in the tent--leading to the low- ering of the scholarship and morale of the college. The flexible entrance requirements, based on the divisional plan of org-anization intro- duced last year are not less selective because they allow for an occasional \blind spot\ in a pt<Jspective student's mental equip·ment. 'Tile emphasis is on higher matks in the courses pertaining to the student's field of study, rather than on lower marks in irrele- vant subjects. From Dr. Fox's speech we get the feeling that here is a man who stands for thoughtful progress in education. Careful in choosing the path to follow, he will nevertheless follow it with firm and unhesitating step, confident that a thorough study of past experience, and a comp-l>ete survey of present experi- ments, will give him the best guide to the future. Here are some of the quotes which our operatives have gleaned: 0 0 0 0 ful? worl~s. Although the weight of some o o o o of the suoject matter appea:ring in There is, after all, a certain technique in tank filling, water pouring, and windshield wiping which everyone cannot acquire. Some- body of course could be borl'owed from the Chemistry department to measure out gal- lons, an inquisitive poker-about from om· ·lab- oratories to check oil, and a lively blackboa1·d scrubber with a cheery flow of Eng·lish to wash bugs from windshields. Phil Smitl1-Comments on the in- tellectual aristocracy-- \Most men attending college today are noth- ing but sons of emancipated pants pressers.\-and observes the coll<:!ge man-\Most of you gentlemen are still in the knot-holt stage of sex• ual development.\ Mr. Jagu Makes u good tooth- these Jines Ja.st Tuesday may have paste testimonial free ?f charge-;: had little, .jf any, effect upon the \A smile is worth a ftrst grade. choice of program for this week, it o o o o must be written here that such a Note Since the number of pos- selection of matel'ials a·nd' theil' or- sible sou1ces tram which any one ganiz 11 tion Is in perfect accord with student (or columnist> can possibly my personal sentiment conce1ning draw is limited to five or six at the the nature of the Suncay afternoon most, it is hereby proposed that t.he · concert on the campus. items be submitted ·by the entire If the concErt accomplished little student body. Upon attaining ft:u- else it placed before the audience ition, this project must necessanly representative manifestation of two bring to every class room an end- of the most individualistic person- less source of wit and momentous ages in the entire realm of music, statements. Rivalry among the fac- John Sebastian Bach and Cesar ulty for space in this column \':Ill Augustus ·Franck. The concert, be rivelled only by student contrib- however, did not halt here. It af- utors. It remains only for each torded Dr. 'Ndrnarsh the opportun- of you, readers. to pay more atten- ity of meeting the isHUe raised in tion in class, jot down all remarlts this column Last week, the question which particularly appealed to you, of progress during three years. Dr. and with your name attached, the Tidmarsh's.playing announced in no name of the professor, and the time uncertain l!iinguage that he has so when the utterance was made, drop disciplined his talent as to make yout· contribution in the Concordy him eligible for nomination into box which is just inside the door that categmy containing such splen- of Silliman Hall. l Your name will did church organists as George not be printed unless the Concordy Kemmer, R. Huntington Woodman, A ponderous but goodnatured chap could be on hand with a monkey wrench, togeth.er with some compressed air experts to blow grease into squeaky joints. And finally a man of dignity and assurance would be chosen to wish us all a \Happy Motoring.\ In addition to its possible educational and financial values, this station will undoubtedly be a convenience for college trucks and trac- tors. The idea is a capital one. From a purely artistic point of view, however, we would suggest slight landscaping and a touch of camouflag·e. The Mountebanks trailer could be wheeled away, and finally was. But gas pumps are rather stationary and deserve a proper setting. And besides, an original sur- rounding might attract more motol'ists. 1'hey like gas stRtions that are \different.\ THE GATES ARE CLOSED Men living in the fraternity houses may not realize the significance of Dr. Fox's de- cree to close the campus g-ates at 10 o'clock. But let them spend a nig-ht in any o-f the front rooms in either of the North or South College dormitories and they will take cog- nizance of Dr. Fox's blessing. Until l\londay night the paths decorating the fronts of the dorms were usually stl'ewn with wandering minstrals until all ungodly hours of the nig-ht. But in the past week silence has descended over the campus at 1 0 o'clock and the wandering minsb·els have been obliged to spread their song in other quarters. The value of quiet cannot be accu!'ately estimated until the first marking period ar- rives. If the index of the men in the dorms rises by a leap and a bound then the m<Jv<e is successful. If the index remains the same, the men are utterly indifferent. But if the index emulates the stocl< market of October 1929, then the happy minstrels, or perhaps the minstrelettes, are indispensible to the in- tellectual background of the campus, alld we must fling wide the campus gates. In the meantime, ho\vever, the men of the dormitories are so elated by the change that sume voices can be heard clamoring for the gates to be closed at 7:30. IS DEMOCRACY JUSTIFIED? 0 0 0 0 Philip Allert()n Smith- Describes with Menckenian modesty teacher- student relationship-\! care noth- ing for any of you and have no ·per- sonal regard for what you get out of my classes. I consider it a priv- ilege for you to come here and lis- ten to me.\ 0 0 0 0 Dr. Larrabee Puts the situation in a nutshell \A definition of •Es- sence': that without which a thing isn't.\ 0 0 0 0 Dr. Clarli -Sounds a note of warning -\Sometimes u bloodclot forms, passes to the head. and causes death; and that is danger- ous.''~and issues an invitation--- is sued for libel or slander). and S. Levvls ·Elmer. --------------------~--------------------------------- It might seem somewhat danger- ous to draw such a conclu:;ion after SECRET SERVICE II II three hearings, including the per- BUREAU N Sh • formance at the opening college OW 0Win9 exercises Ja.,;t Monday, especially t Among the improvements made after spealting of the absmdity of on the campus during the past sum-~ . . hasty inference. Nev~rtheless, Dr. met· you may have noticed the red The Warner Bro~hers, ~1lliam Tidmarsh's performance on Sunday cylindrically shaped object in the ~andolph Hem:st, M1ss Manon Da- afternoon was thoroughly convinc- rear of Washburn Hall. Upon close v1es together wtth s?me dozen other ing. So much so that any regres- inspection-even at that it was dif- factors ar~. respon~1ble for .. a c~m- sion in the future imposed by vari- ficult-we decided that it was -of edy called Page M1ss Glory wh1ch ous external conditions, would be all things-a gasoline pump. We is gracing Proctor's. Not that any- compensated by the beautiful play- were di:;appointed to find that there one Pis~ ~.ould care to assume the ing of Sunday afternoon. is no grease or wash rack or free respon:;tbthty. But to t·eturn to the subject of air or any of the numerous con- The story has to do with the lit- Bach and F'ranck. There virtually veniences of a super station. How- tie girl from Red Hook who comes passed through. my mind a Jabyr- ever we can't expect to get every to the big city, New York. Upon inth of topics for discussion; yet the thing at once. Perhaps next year? arriving in Grand Centt al station relationship of Bach and Franck, * ,. • she makes the stock faux pas, particularly in the light of their t A word about the new Librarian. pro tem.,-it seems that after dir- ecting a somewhat dazed frosh to Bailey Hall for the aptitude test required of freshmen, the newly-ap- pointed Librarian was astounded by the query, \Aren't you coming up to take the aptitude test?\ The passing years rest lightly on some. among them that old classic: Por- works whieh were performed- ter: Your bags, Miss? Miss Davies: Bach's \Toccata in D minor ·(Dar- Of course they are. Even the inor- ian)\ and \Adagio\, and Cesar dinate number of children which Franck's \Grand Piece Symphon- grace Sunday matinees didn't laugh lque\-outshadowed every other at that one. consideration. Each man ·epitomized However, Miss Davies, still in a particular school of thought and character, manages to get out ol while the technique of Franck is de- the station, fraternize with the taxi- rived from the· style of Bach, the man, the door man and the porters content of his music differs from t At Cornell we understand that of the Hotel Pa!k Regis where most the content of Bach's music as of the story lti laid. Once within night is different ft·om day. * the practical-joke1·s take gt\eat de- ft h · b h I . h . k a er avmg een w illed several Bach was Chrl'st 1 ·an 1 ·n the true tg t 1n Joe ing the shower-bound t · h brethern out of their rooms, all of Jmes 111 t e !evolving door Miss Christ sense. Franck was a mystic. which entails a mile walk for the Davie\' stymies the audience by be· Now, someone will say \What has k f h . h coming a chambermaid. She then a man's ph. 1 'losoph!'c be!J\ef to do pass ey-o ten a touc mg sig t. t h But at Union we go them one bet- ge s er little life story entwined wit~ his music?\ Considerable. For ter-S. R. Cohen has succeeded with with that of two promoters who mus1c Ol' any other art is man's great difficulty in locking himself win a beauty contest with a compos- philosophic creed integrated into a tte photogmph. Inevitably Miss med' f out twice in the past weelt, and his Davie'=' pulls a Cindarella and after t.u.m o expression. Bach placed sylph-like form has been seen bub- · humtllty before everything else. bling around in search of Tom. ~~;~~ and tribulation all ends hap· Every b~r of nis music, whether it • • * The picture has a roster of com- be the VIgorous motion of one of his t Speaking of Tom Gould. August edians which include Pat O'Brien rapid movements or the plaintive first marked his twentieth year as Frank McHugh, AI Jenkins Patsy melody of his soaring slow move- th~ C~mpus Policeman. Congratu- Kelly !God Bless Herl, Jo~ Caw- ments, is tainted with this humility. latiOns. thorn, AJ Shean and unless we mis· The \A~agio\ which Dr. Tidmarsh L • .• • * take the evidence, Jim Tully. Be- played 18 so utterly simple, so spir- ' To remm1sce for a moment sides these Mary Astor Dick p . ttually beautiful and uplifting, it is what wa:; J. 8. Rosen thinking of ell and Lyle Talbot piay str· . 0 ~ 1 ~he qmet song of a devout 1 eligion- when he spoke of the Lilualj a\ I with comic m,puatwn A . a.tg Ist. One cannot spPak of Bach in \Thv gt'ant dome J'k th • f · CUllOUh terms of em<ltt'on 0 ' th 'II , • . • :.? 1 e a mo er s 1 r1ct b that thts expensive cumed · ne spa os Wl dtscermng breast . It has always I whtch was hand tailot ed f . M .· Y thus become· hathos. Bach can only been a oource uf wundet to uc, hut D.t\'ie, 1.:; conl'•ldcl•.. t 1 ° 1 1 L ~ 1 1 10 1 n be spoken of _as n humble philos- a b th L 'b · 'II \ \ ~ 0 e 1 ~ le opher Chn tl 1 1 z:t Y e e new 1 1anan Wl en- featured players. The comedy al- • .., 1 te, >:indly, radiant, l!ghten us. mos! co~stantly falls flat while Miss ~ener~us, h'Umble, always transla• • • * Dav1es ts on thE' \C'l E'Pn but plcks tmg his virtues into song. t Among the other scantily attired up when left in the hands of the Franck, on the other hand gentlemen ahout the mmJ>Us l:.•~t 1 o~hP~s, particulat Jy McHugh and ~~earned visions, and transmuted week .. onE' Horace Ryt nP rut a stnl<-l 0 RrH'n. Pnt\Y J{.,JJy stenJ, seve! al em into tone, took the fantasy m~ f1gure. It serms thnt thP Chi srPn:s from our hProinP includin, and n~a~e it reality. Franck was, Ps1s pledged too many· boy,;, or nut 1 one 111 which the former is in thg and .:;ttlli;;, frequently referred to as Pnnm:h last yPnr. At nny rntP thP I hackg-:nunrl nn 1 J out of focus. AI~ ~he mnovator of chromaticism. that Frosh were too much for the Sophs of which is to say that the c d W; the uo;e <.>f half-tone changes iii and H. Byrne .Jost his brcechc\ is quitP arnu~ing, not thlOugo:~hy the structure of harmony. But his <pants to youl. Davies' efforts. but those of the res~ c~rorr:aticlsrn, lilte every other mu- Es, Es & Bee. of the cast. the directdr, the write Slcal mnova tlon, is derived directly -~-o and the technicians. r from Ba,ch's style. It has its germ On the bill also are one technl- way b~c·k in the art of Bach. color cartoon, one technicolor com- Fran~k s treatment of counterpoint, edy, the Pathe News, several trail- too, IS based upon Bach's use of ers. and the always inteJesting count~rpolnt. It js only in the phil- ~arch of Time doing a very good o~ophtc content that F1 ancl!'s music JOb of correlating a month's news. differs from Bach's. It is the deep Notes On Our Contemporaries Wanted-Edit&r- The editor of \The Rennselaer Polytechnic\ R. P. I. newspaper did not 1·eturn this year. ' Optional Chapel- Considered a victory for \The Williams Record\ by undergrad- uates, compulsory chapel at Wil- liams which has always come at an unearthly hour in the morning, has been made optional and changed to a later time. Thirteen Years of Radio- Station WHAZ. R. P. I.'s own ra- dio station begins its thirteenth year on the air. Fraternity Racket- Members of an R. P. I. fraternity are searching pawn shops as a re- sult of a \visit\ paid last spring by a self-styled \brother\. He not only removed many valuable arti- cles from the house, but having posed as a millionaire hitch-hi!ter, stole over 850 dollars worth of jew- els from his benefactors, the family of one of the brothers. He is being held on a Ch!1.l'ge o:f grand larcency. Bacltstage Interview dre.amln?, communion with a spirit wFhlch ts the singular color of th!he appointment was for three- ranclt. Irty. Y~e were to see and talk .And we can frankly say that the to Lee Sims of the team of s· difference between one man's music and Bailey who had top bi'Jl' 11 ~ 8 and anot\e • · th Pr t • . ma m . \ r s IS e diffel'ence of oc or s vaudeville last week \' Tthen· _Perso:nal philosophic· views. We had only the vaguest n~tions e~hmcal Innovation is only a derl- ~~r?ow.to approach backstage Pr·oc- v~tlve from another man's tech- use~ ~~~cc~ t~he stage hasn't been ~~~e. A tnan's style is his philos- Finally battee~e past several years. p y, but upon that issue let us d rmg upon a locked tp.ostpone discussion until another . o?r p;oduced a stage hand 'th 1me. InJUnctiOns to be quiet d wt --------------- r~~~g~o ~~e ~Hey st.a~e do:r~ On~~ st e ormahtles and back shage we were told to wait. The o\:' was on. Contrary to our con- ceptiOn of a vaudeville stage there ~~~t~h:tu~~e or hurry and we leave the theat~e P::f~~~~;ho~ ~ot cause of the time taken for m 5 1 . e- up. a trng At last Miss Bailey or Mrs Sl as you will came d · ms, which lead' aloft too~~ thJ. st~irs rooms. If you saw e tessmg realize how charm!ngt~ sthow you eence she has We 6 age pre- . • we1·e more tll~n ~f:t~d t~v~~d ~hatd!he illusion per- f t . a a !Stance of three .::s· 1 ThxJ despite the fact that she not innt~ ressing gown of sorts and the t oWgowns which help make esse:ca·r e found that she pass- had t ange of over three octaves c ac ually- married Lee Sims afte~ h ?mlngh to take lessons from him at ts sc ool in Ch' is still t her th ICago. The school doesn't see elt ough the maestro might b . very ofte11. This the tea~ ~x:::ilai~ed by the fact that half of soil} b:P ayk:d a year and a ou oo mgs. J. ~. :o. ··TwoH< Streng Eight Touch( By Varsit Year While the Unive was defeating l Saturday, 6() to 0 Argonauts were tf favorite rival H: .Union's varsity t its first taste {)f tion in a practi promising lot of Within the cou or so, of conthi.uo tween the variou freshmen and var touchdowns werE Garnet against th crowd of ·enthusi the game inside : the gates was tre: test in which the · all doubts as to defensive strengt: Yearling In spite of the 1 lings were unabl• fensively, for the; and rarely came ' tance, they did v of the afternoon J: prisingly well-hal one Louchdown al: utes. The pre-season well as the resp each team, pro•ba cone! usive decism who participated From the bench t to have not a strength in the l worthy sets of b: Krull t, Captain Chari' passes, Jack Smi1 El'nie Brown do ground g·aining, a calling the signa and their propen: up to good advar field. Duane I Greulick, Henry Howard Van EI strong- second ba The freshmen c a lack of forcefu ial, as they provE have the aid o: Mont Pdeasant f Amazon, and Lo Maxwell, and Br• first string backf Bob Garnett, Wa and Doug Murph tbilities for the b: Stroni The strong wa: which held off t varsity quite c composed of Bill Henderson at t Bob Terhune an, tackle posts, Wal and Hei'b Grant at the guard pi~ For the first : against Middlebu will probably use Van Waldron as man and Frank ( guards, and Pau! . ter. Augmenting men are Joe Mil Jack Kearns, V Agostini, Ed C: Swart, Art Bull chey, Duke Fcnt' and John Hallid: Middlebur: Middlebury, \ grows each da;li team, scored a d• the Dutchmen a and since then t never been enga test. The total: that Union musl ·defeat. In recent yearf en has been m: itself among sn · The odds that 1 another upset f< test are smaller · season when W Schenectady, re Dutchmen to ' THI Printing

n t- it a r- n- n- in so to n- .. .. ge of ay .. be of lly he nd as do n's a e. it is in OS· nd, iii his of irit of the of ws. us at hat a THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1935 Three ··Two Hour Scrimmage Proves .. For Alma M'ater\ Strength Of Garnet Line~By=MIL=TO=ND=.B=EDE=LL=di Dept .. of Atldetics Announces Surplus Wittner Reports Pl'ofit Over Operating Expenses for Fourth Year tained as follows.: student tax,· .·II 11 . $18,000; guara:ntees and gate re- ceipts, $11,5{)3.07; sale of e'lulpment, AS OTHERS SEE US interest on surplus funds, etc., $195.68. !.:;;;;;===~======;;;;!! The varsity and f.resh.man teams actually spent $17,218.07 of the total $2'1,388.24 spent by the department. Intramural athletics ·costing $1,- 169.35 and general depaz-tnental ex- penses amount to $9,00().82. Prolonging Infancy Eight Touchdowns Scored By Varsity Against Yearlings INTRAMURAL ATHLETICS il Drawings for the intramural ·fall While the University of Kentucky· tennis tournament were held last was defeating Maryville College night. The seeded players in order Saturday, 60 to 0 a:nd the Tot:onto are: F. Hawley, G. McGee, J. Cohen, A1·gonauts were taking over Union's B. Salad, J. Orton, N. Stewart, J. favorite rival Hamilton, 13 to O, Hallenbeclt, and G. •Finch. Their .Union's varsity team was getting ·first round matches must be played its first taste .of football competi- by next Monday, tion in a practice game with a The draws a:re as follows: promising lot of freshmen. Within the ~;ourse of two hours First BI·acket-F. Hawley, )>ye; or so, of continuous scrimmage be- W. Ladue, vs. B, Stewart; Netting- tween the various elevens ·of both ham vs. A. ·White; R. Sherman vs. freshmen and varsity squads, eight C~ Wiberly; C. Finch, ibye; H. A.chil- touchdowns were scored by the les vs. D. Thomp:;on; B. Rathbun Garnet against the cubs. 'The large vs. H. Seider; R.. Langer, bye; J. crowd of ·enthusiasts who wached Cohen, bye; H. Enzer vs. R. Carr; J. ·Bergstrom vs. R. Kunkcr; D. Wall- the game inside as well as outside ing vs. M. Yulman; N. Stewart, bye;. the gates was treated to a fine con- E. Carpenter vs. s. Kellin; D. Mil-· test in which the varsity repudiated ler vs. ·C. McGovern; F. Thorne, bye. all doubts ~s to its offensive and. defensive strength. Second Bracket-G. McGee, bye; S. Liebman vs. T. Way; J. Hennas- Yearling Defense sey vs. Farr; J. Morrison, bye; J. In spite of the fact that the year- Hallenbeck, bye; A. Stevenson vs. lings were unable to do much of-· R. Wright; F. Clifton vs. M. Tytko; fensively, for they made no points R. Symonds, bye; B. Salad, bye; E. and rarely came within scoring dis-: Hull vs. M. Dwore; J. Connoly vs, tance, they did well in the <Jourse G. Griswold; H. Walling vs. H. Van- of the afternoon by holding the sur- decar; J. Orton, bye; T. Fox vs. W. Brandow; P. Mitchell vs. W. Hell- prisingly well-balanced varsity to. ing; J. Duncan, bye. one Louchdown about every 15 min- utes. o--- . The pre-season football fans, as well as the respective coaches of each team, proobably formed pretty conclusive decisons about the men who participated during the game. From the bench the varsity seemed to have not only its reputed strength in the line, but also two X-Country Squads Nearing Top Fe1rm Varsity Covers Two-.Mile Run in Fast Time; Frosh Greatly Improved worthy sets of backs. Krull to Smith Captain Charlie Krull tossing passes, Jack Smith receiving them, Ernie Brown doing much of the ground gaining, and Dick Woodruff calling the signals were the men and their propensities that showed up to good advantage in the back- field. Duane LeTarte, Herman Greulick, Henry Duchscherer, and Howard Van Epps made up the strong- second backfield group. The freshmen do not suffer from a lack of forceful ba<Jkfield mater- ial, as they proved Saturday. They have the aid of an experienced Mont Pdeasant football man, Jake Amazon, and Lou Comenza, Jack Maxwell, and Bruno Czech for the first string backfield. Dick Burrell, Bob Garnett, Walt and Bill Burke, and Doug Murphy are other possi- •bilities for the backfield. Going into the third week of training, the varsity and f1osh cross-country teams are shaping in- to something like competition form. Coach Ketz seems fairly well satis- fied with the appearance of his teams at the present time but is go- ing to push his men slightly harder since they are a full week ·behind last years preliminary workouts. Yesterday your ConcOl'dy reporter had the good luck to accom}lany Bill Ketz as he followed the varsity around the i.wo-mile course and on over the long four-mile jaunt. Many interesting situations facing a track coach were absorbed in this brief time. Sick stomachs, pulled muscles, sore heels and soles of feet, even tooth aches have to be con- tended with Strong Wall Basted~ Leads The strong wall of the yearlings Captain Ed Bastedo led the field which held off the offense of the to the mile marker in 5:30 with varsity quite commendably was Harry Myers a second behind. Bill composed of Bill Thomas and Don Hawks, Russ Knox and Bob North Henderson at the end positions, were past in less than 5:40 with Bob Terhune and Bruno Czech at Frank Laurenski and Sam Hewitt tackle posts, Wally Baker at center, being clocked at approximately 5:45. and Herb Grant and Jim Mulcarhe Bastedo kept his lead and finished at the guard places. the two-mile run in 10:13, very good For the first string varsity line time for the distance. The record against Middlebury Coach Hatfield time over this course is around 9:50. will probably use Jim Marotta and Myers lost out in the home stretch Van Waldron as ends, Jack Sloat- and finished second to Bill Hawks, man and Frank Gatchell as tackles, Knox ran one of his best races and guards, and Paul Campbell as cen- kept fourth place throughout the . ter. Augmenting this group of line- fast pace. men are Joe Milano, Stuart Irvine, North, who has been running his Jack Kearns, Van ):.add, Francis best this year, knotted up and fin- Agostini, Ed Cammarata, Homer ished with Laurenski in 11:04. Hew- Swart, Art Bullard, Newton Rit- itt, who was last at the miLe, came chey, Duke Fenton, Burns Burford, back in the second leg and pulled and John Halliday. up to fifth place. Middlebury Imminent Jim Palmer, Jerry Neumann and George Denton took the longer run Middlebury, whose importance yesterday at a trot. Palmer, a sen- grows each day for the · football ior, has plenty of grit and enthus- team, scored a decisive victory over iasm and is stepping along with the Dutchmen about 11 years ago the leaders in great style. The team and since then the two teams have· as it is now taking forms seems never been engaged in a grid con- to indicate Bastedo, Myers, Hawkes, test. The totals from 1924 show Neumann, and Hewitt will certain- that Union must avenge a 19 to 0 ly be among the first starters. At · defeat. least one more man and pQ.Ssibly In recent years the Vermont elev- two, will be taken fr·om the remain- en has been making a name for ing candidates with the chances di- itself among small college teams. vided as to who will be called upon. · The odds that Union will turn in another upset for its opening con- Frosh Surprise l ~ test are smaller than they were last The frosh came out f1·om under season when Wesleyan arrived at cover today and stepped out over Schenectady, ready to take the the three-mile course like veterans. Dutchmen to camp. If the time tria.!s with the varsity Where Union always ' men are welcome. \ \ . i 1 l I THE CAZETTE PR.E.SS ~ ~ . ' ; Printing Engraving Binding '! c ,\ R. P. I., also known as the fight- ing engineer·s, seems on the verge of football fame. After their eight· game l'osing streak of last year the dopesters are busy calculating 'the cha:nces of the Troy men to win a couple this year. All declred out with training quarters and table, the Cherry and White gFid machine is pointing toward their opener this Saturday when they meet the Uni-. versity of Vermont. * .. bur football squad this year boasts of members from five states. Taken collectively the team weighs slightly more than two tons and towers into the air for a:pproxi- mately 87 feet. .. * * The Garnet team this year out- weighs that of last year, averaging 178 pounds. The average height of the squad is 5 feet 9 inches. · .. * In s~rimmage yesterday the var-' sity had rather a hard time getting through the second stl'ing line. The scrubs put on a. good show and· completed several well-executed plays. Hank Duchscherer made two nice runs against the varsity, dis- playing an unexpected ability for dodging and twisting his way through a broken field. * * The boys became real excited over a few inches when a hullaballo was raised over the question as to whether the ball had been carried over into the end zone. Sounded like a real contest for a time. Even Referee Lawrence became tangled up in the discussion. * .. .. Bob \Bush\ Everest asked Coach Ketz if he could be excused from practice to go to Glens Falls. \Sure\ said Ketz, \only do six miles when you get back.\ As far as we know Everest is still running. * * .. Freshman Shugg had a. little· trouble on his cross-country jog yesterday. Indigestion it seems. Which all goes to show that Sun- day dinners on Monday don't go so well. .. * • Incidentally, did you know that Red Grange gained approximately 19 miles during his career as a col- lege football player? * * * Or that Woodrow Wilson coa<Jhed football at Wesleyan University be- tween 1888 and 1890? .. .. * Neither did I. As Will Rogers would have said, \All I know is what I read in the pa}lers.\ 0---- CAMPUS VIEW IN MAGAZINE \The College Store,\ the bi-month- ly publication of the National Asso- ciation of College Stores, featured on the front cover of its September issue an aerial photograph of the Union College campus. The News Bureau also reports that the aerial was one of those se- lected by the New York State De- partment of Publicity for a specially illuminated display of outstanding scenes of the state exhibited at the Grand Central Terminal galleries in New York City. For the fourth consecutive year, since the appointment of Professor J. Harold Wittner as director of athletics and physica:l training, the athletic department ha:; reported a surplus over operating expenses, it was announced today by Comp- troller Anthony Hoadley. For· the year· 1934-35 the department re- ceived an income of $2,310.51 above the operational expenses. Rpecial Expenditures The surplus, however, was wiped out b~· certain \special capital ex- penditures\ which included the in- stallation of floodlights on the foot- ball field for latf' aftrrnoon prac- tice, the acquisition of part-time coaches to assist the varsity men- tors, and the expenditure of about $3,500 for the construction of a new hockey rink. These special expendi- tures amounted to $4,982.61. Because the department has built · up a large surplus fund in addition to its \reserve\ fund, the ca:pital expenses were liquidated entirely out of surplus funds, which now amount to $974.17, and the r·eserve fund to $6,000. Four Surpluse.s . Since he became dir~>ctor in 1931, Professor Wittner has nported the following annual surpluses over operational expenses: 1931-32-- $5,9(}8.06; 1932-33-$5,913.19; 1933-34 - -$2,412.99; and 1934-35-$2.310.51. Thus in four years the surpluses amounted to $16,553.75. l'ermanent Additions Permanent additions to the Ath- letlc department which have heen paid out of the surplus funds ac- cumulated during the four years In- c! ude the 12 tier steel grandstands, the 6 tier steel grandstands, seating a total of 1, 700; rebuilding the out- door board track; rebuilding the eight tennis courts with C!lay at a coBt of $3,500; rebuilding the bas- J,etball bleacher seats;. resur:facing the gymnasium floor. During 1934-35 five new sports (ftcshrnen) were addecl costing a. total of $770, yet the net 1 1oss on operations of all the sports was reuuced by $2,000. This was .prin- cipally due to the increasecl gate re- ceipts in football, basketball and baseball over the previ<>us year. 01--- ADDRESS CHANGE If they have not already done so will the students whose names appear ·below please repor-t to the, Dean's Office to complete their ad- dress cards. The Students' names. are: 0. W. Baurman, Z. J. Betle- jeski, W. P. Bishop, H. Clay, J. Clif- ford, C. Coleman, V. J. Dugan, C. C. Graves, J. F. Mcllreatn, G. H. Mot·se, W. R. Pauley, G. L. Perkins, R. H. Simmons, A. Skarka and F. Vall Dyke, all of the class of 193~, D. J. Bond, Donald Buch:.anan, R. H. Shaw, and E. G. Wlsenbur-n of the class of 1938, and K. G. :MacMurray '37. Will the freshman who have changed their addresses (college) since registration please notify the Dean's Office. Educators of keen perceptions are acutely aware of the weakness, inherent in the American system of culture. Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox, president of Union College at Sche- nectady, told his freshman class the country could 110 longer afford the delusion that the nation existed: for youth, rather than youth for the nation. Under the guidance of idealists, sentimentalized in the manner of doting mothers, the American sys- tem of education has become not only ridiculous but dangerous. Us main purpose seems to be, as Dr. Fox observed, to prolong infancy, to maintain as long as possible a vast number of young people in leisured irresponsibility. That per- haps is to be attributed to the fem- inized character of primary educa- tion, coupled with the maternal in- clination to retard the process of growing up. If the moral fibre of the public shows signs of deterioration today it may be ascribed in large Jlart t.o this influence. The endeavor has been to sugar-coat everything, to deny the necessity of work, and to make the life of the adolescent a series of sweet illusions which, when stripped away, expose utter unpreparedness for the difficulties and hazards recurring in the course of the ordinary human span. The American Democracy has made many and grevious errors, and one of the worst it has not yet recognized. Its school system is try- ing first to demonstrate the fourth dimensional proposition that silk purses can be made from sow's ears. It is dedicated also to pro- moting the idea that life should be an uninterrupted dream of pleasure at least until the age of 21, and for as long thereafter as fa:te and cir- cumstance permit.-Editorlal from Middletown, N. Y. \Herald\ During the past year the net loss on the operation for varsity, fresh- man and intramural sports were the same as the year before in spite of the fact that last year the fresh- men sports in basketball, basebaH, cross country and lacrosse were ad deu to the program. This was due F;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;:;;;;;; to the increase of $1,000 in football r receipts over those anticipated. Football Profits Varsity football was the only sport to be conducted at a profit, it having netted $2,725.97 last year. Varsity baseball showed the big- gest operational loss, $1,462.31; la- crosse lost $1,400; track and field, $1,309.29; varsity basketball which was one of the costly sports in for- mer years last year increased its gate receipts in such large amounts that its net Joss was only $796.02. Total Receipts The total receipts of $29,698.75 re- ceived by the department was ob- General Office Equipment Company 140 JA.Y STREET-PHONE 4·9617 Stationery Steel Files I'Ciper Safes Office Furniture Drafting Supplies T'fPEWRITERS New Replliring Used Rebuilt Rentals A COLLEGE PROFESSOR DISCOVERED That Often It lsn!Jt a Stnden'i's B1•ain but his Pe11 that Runs Dt.•y-eauses Failnre-iu ~lasses and Exam.sl So he invented this sacless Vacumatic, and Parker engineered it to pe1fection-gave it 102% more Ink Capacity-made its Ink Level VISIBLE, so it suddenly can't go empty! are run off Saturday, the frosh with a few seconds handicap bid fair to give the varsity plenty of competi- tion and worry. Thomson and Wells finished the r.un in 17:06 and 17:08 resp£>Ct ively. Myers, Denton and Eaton crossed under nineteen min- utes. JAMES E. DAY, Optician Perscrlptlons Filled or Duplicated General Repair Work 604 Union St., Cor. Barrett St. 3 Blocks Below College Gate PHONE 2-3464 We Carry a Complete Line Parker Fountain Pens Engineers· Drawing Sets, Paper, Instruments and Supplies Union Book Coa Incorporated 257 STATE St. Y ES, a scientist on the faculty of 1:he University of ·wisconsin was amazed to find how pens that run out of ink slow down classes, de· moralize thinking, and bring marks tha-t no student wants to write home about. His observations led to the birth of the revolutionary Parker V acumatic. 'This miracle pen writes 12,00() words 1'arler ~ J'A.CllitMTIC~ GUARANTEED M EtltM I!ALLY PERFECT Junior, $5 A Pencils, $2.50, Over-Size, $10 'filii $3.50 and $5 from a single filling--shows when it~s tUllning low-tells whem to refill! Any good store selling_pena will show you how the Parker Vaclimatic eliminates 14. old-tirne parts, includ· ing the lever filler andrtihbcr ink sac found in sac-tyJ?e pens. And due to th1s,it has douhleroomforink, witT~­ out increase in size, But don't think 1:hat aacless pens containhtg squirt·&un pumps arelik..e Parker s patented V aca- matic, This new creation contains none of these. That's why it'sGUA.RAN• TEED MECH.ANICA.L~ Y l\ERFECT! Go and try writing two different ways with its Reversible Point-solid Gold combined with precious Plat• inum-skilfully fashioned to write on both sides-slightly turned up at the tip so it cannot scratch or drag, even under pressure! Do this and you won~t let an old pen impede your learning another day. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin. Send a Post Card for Free Bot· tie of Parker Qui11k-the mar- velous new quick·drying, pen- cleaning ink, and· throw your blotter away. Address Dept. 712,

I I f I l ! :i .. . . I .. 1 L I . L ·~· '' Four FINANCIAL REPORT FOR DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND ATHLETICS UNION COLLEGE For the Year Ending. July 31, 1935 STA.'l'EMENT OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES AS OF JULY 31. 1935 ASSETS Ca~h-Schenectady Trust Comp~ny .......... $1,044.66 Re~erve -Schenectauy S~vlng::; Bank . . . . . . . . . 5,000.00 $6,044.66 Pt'epaid E:xJ)ense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929.51 Total A~;:;et:; LIABILITIES Surp1ua- Gn hand August 1, 1934 .................... $3,646.27 From opet'ation 1934-1935 \Tables I and ID 2,310.51 $5,956.78 Less Special Expense ( T~ble llll . . . . . . . . . . 4,982.61 $6,974.17 Net Surplus July 31, 1935 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 974.17 Re8erve Fund- On hand August 1, 1934 .................... $6,000.00 .Added for year 1934-1935 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 000.00 6,000.00 Total Liabilities $6,974.17 TABLE I I:NCOME FOR YEAR ENDING JULY 31, 1935 Student Tax ................................... . Sports- Guarantees received ........................ $4,135.00 Gate receipts . . . . .. . .. . . .. .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. 7,368.07 Sale of Gymnasium Equipment .............. . Interest on Bank Account ................... . Alumni Gift Fund ........................... . Total Receipts TABLE II $18,000.00 11,503.07 29.64 159.04 7.0~ $29,698.75 EXPENDITURES FOR YEAR ENDING JULY 31, 1935 Sports (Schedule !)- Guarantees paid ........................... . :Home expense ...................... , ..... . Trip expense .............................. . Supplies ..... , ............................. . In tram ural .................................. . General Expense- Advertising ................................ . Association dues .......................... . Athletic injuries ........................... . Field equipment ........................... . Field :maintenance ......................... . Ft·eight & express ......................... . Laundry ................................... . Office expense ............................ . Photographs ............................... . Salaries . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ....... . Seasonal coaching ... Tickets & printing . . . . . . . ......... . Travel expense ............................ . Total Expendituz·es ...................... . TABLE III $5,528.85 1,695.80 4,352.12 5,641.30 $ 526.30 104.00 423.13 288.08 834.42 41.87 500.00 384.06 6.50 5,270.27 368.00 146.89 107.30 $17,218.07 1,169.35 9,000.82 $27,388.24 SPECIAL EXPENDITURES FOR YEAR 1934-1935 Field Lights ............................................. $ 405.09 F()otball Coaches . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,100.00 Hockey Rink . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,477.52 $4,982.61 Income for year 1934-1935 (Table l) ..................... $29,1>98.75 EK.pendltures for year 1934-1935 (Table Ill .............. 27,388.24 Surplus for Year Ending July 31, 1935 .............. $ 2,310.51 SCHEDULE I DE'.I'A:IL OF SPORTS RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS 8EASON-19S<l-l935 Guarantee Trip Home Supplies Total Varsity Football .... $1,850.00 $1,473.28 $621.85 $1,422.97 $5,368.10. Freshman Football .. 135.00 190.33 100.87 526.80 953.00 Var. C1'oss ~ountry. 150.00 303.95 200.29 654.24 Fresh. Cross Country 13.00 88.85 101.85 Varsity :Basltetball 915.00 432.10 410.48 359.79 2,117.37 Freshman Basketball 35.00 52.85 25.00 34.70 147.55 Swimming ......... 210.00 177.90 50.80 27.35 466.05 Indoor 'I'rack 64.02 53.57 117.59 Varsity Hockey 150.00 207.77 125.60 204.76 688.13 Freshman Hockey 25.00 30.45 130.14 185.59 Varsity Baseball 838.00 357.25 90.60 800.66 2,086.51 Freshman Baseball. 10.00 26.25 110.27 146.52 Tennis ............. 155.00 118.05 203.27 476.32 Track .............. 200.00 469.60 36.40 890.84 1,596.84 Golf ................ 23.60 77.90 73.35 112.82 287.67 Varsity Lacrosse ... 762.25 316.62 66.05 430.91 1,575.83 Freshman Lacrosse. 70.00 97.50 38.10 43.31 248,91 --- $5,528.85 $4,352.12 $1695.80 $5,641.30 $17,218.07 DISBURSEMENTS RECEIPTS Guarantee Gate Total Profit Loss Varsity Football .... $2,150. $5,944.07 $8,094.07 $2,725.97 ·Freshman Football 95. 114.15 209.15 $ 743.85 Va1·. Cross Count:r:y .. 185. 185.00 469.24 Fresh. Cross Country 15. 15.00 86.85 Varsity Basketball 450. 871.35 1,321.35 796.02 Freshman Basltetball 25. 16.75 41.75 105.80 Swimming _ ......... 160. 25.00 185.00 281.05 Indoor Tt'aclc 117.59 Varsity Hockey ..... 290. 290.00 398.13 Freshman HoC!key .. 185.59 Varsity Hockey ..... 290. 290.00 398.i3 Varsity Baseball .... 250. 374.2() 624.20 1,462.31 Freshman Baseball 146.52 T-ennis ............ 75.00 75.00 401.32 Track •• -. 0 .......... 265. 22.5~ 287.55 1,30!}.29 Golf .... -·· ......... 287.67 Varsity Lacr<osse ... 175. 175.00 1,400.83 Freshman Lact\osse 24B.91 --- $4,135. $7,368.07 $11,503.07 $2,725.97 $8,440.97 Net Loss ............................................. $5,715.00 THE OONCOJIDIENSIS, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1935 ;_; Ne.wly Appointed English Professor Carroll Describ~s . IIT'd l K L T • • c· l . Theatre Festival Fox Demands Selectivity In American Education rr z e y nown ne~ournaltstzc zrc es WALLACE T. FOOTE Dr. Burges Johnson, newly ap- departure, the real reason Jay in pointed professor in charge of the the fact that if he had spent many Field of English, came to Union more year's in a women's college, this year after eight years of teach- he never would have left it. ing at Syracuse, and before that, Believes in Informality ten years of occupying a similar Here at Union, Dr. Johnson is position a-t Vassar. He has behind putting into practice the methods him many years experience in the of teaching that he evolved earlier field of jour·na!ism, and is well- in his career. Chief among these known among the figures of this is his desire to escape from the in- profession. He spent several years fluence ·on the students of the usual' as a reporter, and served under class-room atmosphere, which re- Lincoln Steffens when he was city suits from ordered rows of chairs, editor of The Globe, a newspapet• all facing the professor's desk. which has since been absorbed by. Better work will result he believes, another publication. Dr. Johnson if the usual barrier between pro- was on the editorial staff of Har- fessor and student is broken down pet·'s magazine for thz·ee years, and until the student regards the pro- was also a member of the staff of fessor us a superior· type of being to Everybody's .magazine. He served whom one must \talk up\ but one as managing editor of Outing mag- to whom he could talk as ft•eely and azine, and spent one year as Editor- easily as he could to a fellow stu- in-Chief of Judge. This last men- dent. Accordingly, his class-room tioned period he himself disparages takes on more the aspect of a sem- as one of his more notable achieve- inar than that of the usual lecture ments, but says he cannot persuade room. \I want the student to write people that it is so, because this for the other members of the group, one year spent as the all ruling and so to write informally, as he power of Judge looms larger in would carry on a conversation. I their minds than the many other don't want him to feel that he is years spent in more notable writing for· me, because as soon as branches of the literary world. he does, .he invariably assumes a Called to Columbia. style that is not his own. He con- When the Pulitzet· School of centrates on the fact that he is Journalism was fkst started at writing fat• the .professor, and so Columbia, Dr. Johnson was invited writes in a manner· which is calcu- to be a member of the faculty, lated to call forth expt·essions that which was drafted from well-known show the professor's emotions on active journalists. These men re- reading his work. This makes the tained their former positions, but professor a sort of cash register devoted half of their time to in- who is supposed to ring up or regis- structing the students at the school, ter various emotions.'' which was the first journalistic in- To Publish New Book stitution to be established in the Dr. Johnson's new book, \Sonnets east. When a friend of his was ap- From the Pekingese, and Other· pointed President of Vassar, Dr. Doggerel\ is to be published this Johnson accepted a position as in- Fall. It is a group of sonnets, structor at that college. During his which are the poetic statements of first six years at Vassar he kept a dog. The work will be illustrated· up his active journalistic work in by Edwina, the well-known artist New York, commuting from Pough- whose \Sintbad\ and other illustra- keepsie, but the last four years he tions have won wide acclaim. Dr. devoted exclusively to his college Johnson has also recently sold two work. When asked why he had essays to Harper's. His work at left Vassar, Dr. Johnson replied Union will allow him time he hopes, that contrary to what people might to keep up his writing, which he have thought to .be the cause of his could not do at Syracuse. World's Need Lies In Spiritual Life Ellery Says Men Must Apply Minds to Morality, Religion \Tha fundamental lack in the world today is what it hati alwayti been that men do not, on any large and worthy .scale, apply their superb intelligence in the realm of moral- ity and religion,\ declared Dr. Ed· ward Ellery, chairman of the divi- sion of mathematics and science, in an address in Memorial Chapel Sun- day. \The lack is not economic, our men of business know how to man- age business; it is not intellectual, there have always been splendid scholars and our day is no excep- tion. Neither is it scientific nor po- lltical. \All men should ask themselves the question which a young man asked Jesus twenty centuries ago· 'What lack I yet?' The truth about ourselves frequently distresses- and disheartens. But it is only upon the basis of truth and clear thinking about it that progress is possible for the individual and for human society. LOST-A light tan, camel's hair top coat bearing the label of Franks Clothes Shop, Watkins Glen New York. If found, kindly ret~rn· to Max Taylor, at the Delta Phi House. FRANK FERRARO Fruit and l'roduce Tile best, f'llr tile least, with dependable service. 1231 Crane St. Tel. 2-7828-W FOR BETTER AND QUICKER SERVICE CALL BALL'S Phone 2-3456 or Bring Work to 63 3 State Street BALL'S Cleaners and Dyers Inc. Shoe Rebuilders Students, Faculty of Institute Spend Interesting But Busy Summer (·Continued from Pa:ge 1) ed to Jet down the bars to balance the shrinking income from endow- ments. \If they succumb to· this · temptation and take all high school · graduates without selection, it will · mean a decline in American schol- arship and culture; the time al:ld I ft th · enerO'y lavished ·on the feeble will Most of Union College e e be diverted from the training of morning assembly exercises Thurs- the strong, upon whose leadership day a bit regr·etful that they had· the country must depend.\ not remained on the campus throughout the summer, for accord- .cites DiviSiional Plan ing to Edward L. Carroll, instructor As an example of the practical in English and director of the advantages of \testing students' · b k opportun mental power and segregating the ~i~~nf~r ~ d~li;~~~;{~~~ation wer~ abler into special sections,\ Dr. Fox to be found in the theatre enter- cited Union's divisional system of prise of the Mohawk Drama Fest!- E:ntrance requirements which tri!)s val and i·nstitute of the Theatre. to nlate the admission standards to the applicant's abilities. \If a .campus Lilte ·~Sleeping Village\ . boy Is headed for engineering or The u~ual hiatus fn>m June to science, he must show a better rec~ September did not come in 1935. As ord in mathematics than is re- Mr. Carroll explained it yesterday, quired for language and literature. \unlike other years, the .campus on We are willing to go further than the afternoon of commencement : this In fitting the college opportun- day did not assume the loneliness : ity to the boy. We know that theue of an abandoned farm; an occa- :are bright and able young men who sional buzz and stir gave it more will make a success in college and the air of a sleeping village.\ As .life who have a blind spot for some time went on \the atmosphere be- ; subject traditionally required for came breathless with excitement '-college entrance. This is not a re- and confusion\ with students apply- laxation of standards. We have ing for admission, faculty members turned away more 'legally quali- orienting themselves, and the ad- fled' applicants than ever before in ministration staff starting the rou- our history, and taken a: little less tine of the great venture. than we would like to take.\ ·Union College BOOKSTORE Room \5\ Administration Building TEXTBOO,KS IN STOCK FOR ALL COURSES Do your purchasing early College: Seal Jewelry Pennants Pillows Banners Plaques Die-Stamped Stationery Fraternity: Banners and Plaques COMPLETE LINE OF FOUNTAIN PENS, FEATURING PARKERS' SLIDE RULES! LAUNDRY CASES On Display NEW REMINGTON PORTABLE TYPEWRITER DESK Hours-1st 6 weeks 8:45-12:30 1:00-5:00 Regular Hours: 8:45-12:00 1:15- 5:00 \The answer to this profound question 'What lack I yet?' will eventually be found by the scien- tist,\ stated Dr. Ellery. \The need is not for scientific research to de- clare a holiday in order that man- kind can catch up to the present stage of our physical development, but for the scientist to apply his majestic and rare mental powers to the moral and religious realm. :~?Jfr~~i:!~;1~a~:!; 1~:~~:: jjrmm:m:m:mmm:m:mmm:mmm::mmm:m:mmm:m:mmmmmmm::m::m:::mm::mm:::mm::mm::m:::m::mm:mmm::mmm:mmmm:m::mm possessed human consciopsness is :,.'!,,.,,! the idea of an Infinite Mind. In the H d thought of this Mind, life cannot be- ::: ave you . d M . Ei~~1~~:rf,~]:hf~~: =.f.~.! . or ere your. agazmes yet? !,i!,\,1 \If men ask the question, 'What lack I yet?' they will probably turn Hi m away sorrowful, for they will learn m m how small and inadequate they !, .• l. 1 l _!,,!,,=,;, have been. But they will also learn how magnificent are their possibn- \i We sup pi • d. 1 ... !ties in au human relations, and the !!! Y any per1o lea iii way to make them real.\ ::: bl\ h d ::: 1--------- m pu IS e anywhere-in any !il MOUNTEBANKS WANT MEN Wanted - Freshmen and sophomores as candidates for business and publicity manager of the Mountebanks Thea- tre. No previous experience necessary. Good opportunity to learn the legitimate methods of bringing plays to public atten- tion, and the management of their financial business. Those enthusiastically interested apply either to Jini Kimball, '38, Chi Psi Lodge, or !lr. Enzer, grad- uate manager, in Silliman Hall, this week. !!! language. iii m ;.j.!. ::: Ill Special Rates to Fratern·t·es 1 1 Ill m m Ill STUD~NT SERVICE BUREAU Ill m ::: Ill Hours 2·6 P. M~ Silliman Hall !!! ili Phone 2·3366 iii m m ..__ ...... ..._....., __________ -1 Jililii!i!:mmmiimmm:::m::::::::::m:m:;:::::::::::m:mmmmm:m::m:::::::m::m:mimm::::m:::m:::::::::::m::mm::::;:::mm::mm!m:m:m::::::::::!:::::::m;::m:::lll -====! Vol. LIX., No Faculty 1 Enter For Ci Waldron, Cum for Counc' Posts in E ON DIPPER Waldt·on Is D1 nee; Cummi With Cha The opening polling placeti on November 5, wi College faculty Charles N. Wald Earl E. Cummir in the political 1 for councilman-f. new Plan C, prm· ager form of gO\ nectady. Dr. Waldron i Democratic tick! Cummins is allie< League, in whos< to bring the cit~ government to th prominent. President Dix< commenting this entrance of fact politics stated tl tion of Dr. Wald cratic ticket for City Council, and mins on the Cha evidences a widE fidence in the practical good se as citizens whic wholly gratifying Charter Lea The Charter 1 in large part for ernment, base thE assumption that · no place in an ef icipal governme1 that the best and of the communit~ to govern the cit~ the many. The Democrat!< ed Wednesday by candidate for mu of the Kiwanis C under Plan C the sonality of the m preponderant iss paign. They are I in the field, he hope that the vat' their choice. The Republica other hand, ha vi In Schenectady years, makes no nominees. Their the business of ci· specialized one, v the hands of tho: perlence. Accor1 placed in the fiel edly well-known horses. All parties agre salary cuts for c (Continued Presencl Behind J The college die it Installed the n behind Washbm presence would men ts and sugge So, to a void any insinuations on ' been decided th: of its advent 1 minds of many. J suggested to the by Char1es T. M: ed assistant to t: a means of savi college. Before t line for the m trucks was cant! Ion drum which of the sheds on t vvere several dra rangement. The difficulty was k1 the drum, ·becaus occasion, break drain off the g! their own autom difficulty was a sin<le the drum 500 gallons, it ha· quently without reduced price \\ larger orders. The new tan~ both of these d

ty his ool of cal of a or ec~ re- re- in • • trnsts ====-c====-~======-==============-==~-~=~=~-=~---- Vol. LIX., No. 4 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1935 PRICE FIVE CENTS ================~~-~--- ~-c-~-==-~- Faculty Members Faculty Members In ·City Elections Enter Eleetions For City :Council Waldron, Cummins in Contest for Councilman-at\Iarge Posts in Schenectady ON DIPPERENT TIH{ETS Waldron Is Democratic Nomi- nee; Cummins Associated With Charter League The opening of the municipal -polling plaees on Tuesd~y n10rning, November 5, will find -two Union College faculty members, Dr. Charles N. Waldron and: Professor Earl E. Cummins, with their hats in the political ring, each running for councilman-at-large under the new Plan C, prm·idlng the city-man- ager form of government for Sche- nectady. Dr. Waldron is running on the Democratic ticket while Professor Cummins is allied with the Charter League, in whose reform activities to bring the city-manager form of government to the city, he has been prominent. DR. CHARLES N. WALDRON PROFESSOR E. E. CUMMINS Fcx to Open State Sunday Speakers Historians Meeting Listed for Year Couwwns Specifit·atiuus In Hands of (:ontractors Specifications for the remodel- ing- of South Colonnade WE\te seut to coni! actors yestet t\uy , ft um the pn•ti!dent's otftce, and it is expected that ull bid~ fot · the work will be in the hands of the .:oHege officers in ttme for the construction to begin before October 15. The plans ca!l for the erection of a college dining hall and stu- dent and faculty lounges in the pre~ent location of the Hale house and the classrooms in South Collonade. The donors of the fundB for the work prefer to remain anonymous. \Ca1nbyses\ Opens Drama CourseY ear ~tudents Invited to Informal Pel'fo1·mance of Old Play Tuesday Nig·ht Profiteering in Frosh Caps Revealed by Investigation Student /\eting as Middle-man Receives Commission On }~very -F'reshman Cap Sold; Pl'esident Of Council Gives Away Job --- ------i) f<'rosh lt'ifllJe Gue:>t:> At .·f11mwll:ollege Y Smoker Union Coll•·ge f• eohmen will han~ tht>ir f-ir·,ot PXtt a--f'utTicular get-to- gether toni~ht, when in accoz-dance with the custom uf nruny years, they will be guests at the annual smoker :;pon:;ured by the College Cht !titian As,;uciution. The :;moker will ue lwhl m Sillint,rn Hall fr-om 7 until 9 u'clock. Plans for the affair, now com- pleted, include the singing of col- lege songB. led by Robert Wells, '36, leader of the Glee Club, a-nd accom- panied by Chat le:> Rl•id, '36. The ll:mal refre,hments will be served at the close of the program. STANDING ClTSTOM Practice of Taking Rebate Ha!-1 Been Established for Several Yeat·s Sonwtiml' last WP.l'k, each rn>'mbPJ' of t hi' fl•~>shman class bought a littiP blaclt cap with 11> green button. He paid 85 cents for it. 1''he cap cost the deale1• ap- IH'oximately 50 cents. Ten cents of the profit, the d.ealt>J' kept. Twl'ncy-five cents went to a student who arranged that the Student Cotmcil grant the dealer the exclusive right to St\ll the caps. The Student CotmcU got nothing. President Dixon Ryan Fox:, in commenting this morning on the entrance of faculty mem.bers into politics stated that \The nomina- tion of Dr. Waldron on the Demo- cratic ticket for the Schenectady City Council, and of Professor Cum- Et·otuter Will Present Paper at Many Eminent Preachers Beginning their yeat 's wm·k with a student performance, Edward L. Carroll's play production course will present Thomas Preston's six:- teenth century tragi-comedy \King t O Cam:byses\ next Tuesday night at 8 o'clock. Guest :;pea.kers will be Fred Wy- att, assistant secretary of the gl'Ud- uate council and coordinator of student activities; Nelson Nitchman coach of varsity basketball and freshman football; and Robert North, '36, leader in student activ- ities and world traveller. Gerard Neumann, '36, is in charge of the arrangements. These facts were disclosed after an inquiry by members of The Concordiensis staff following the complaint of another downtown clothier who had made a bid for the freshman cap concession. Annual Convention of Address Students at Asso(!iation Chapel Services mins on the Charter League ticket President Dixon Ryan Fox: will evidences a wide-spread local con- leave the campus Sunday for Mo- fidence in the public spirit and honk Lake, where he will call to practical good sense of our faculty order the 36th annual meeting of as citizens which cannot. but we the New York State Historical wholly gratifying to Union 0ollege\. Association, of which he is presi- dent. The meeting will be a three- CharteJ• League Plat1'onn day affair, in the course of which The Charter League, responsible histol\ical papers will be presented, In large part for the change in gov- the Association's business treated, ernment, base their platform on the and tours made of the historical assumption that party politics have ·points of interest In the vicinity. no place in an efficiently run mun- The first session will begin Mon- lcipal government. They believe day morning, when papers on Ul- that the best and most eligible men ster County history will be pre- of the community should be elected sen ted. In the afternoon Fred- to govern the city for the benefit of erick L. Bronnrr, assistant pt•ofes- the many. sor of history, will report on his The Democratic platform, outlin- researches into the life of Marinus ed Wednesday by George Smith, the Willett in the course of the discus- candidate for mayor, at .a meeting sian on \Four M:en of Action.\ of the Kiwanis Club, maintain that Other colonial figUt·es to be treated under Plan C the character and per- are Baron Peter Hasenclever, by sonality of the men elected are the Raymond H. Torrey, of New Yorli; preponderant issues in the cam- James Duane, by Edward Alexan- paign. They are putting their ticket der, Headquarters House, Ticonder- in the field, he stated, with the oga; and Jedidiah Barber, a typical hope that the voters will agree with old-time merchant of western. New their choice. York, by Herbert B. Howe of The Republican party, on the Columbia University. other hand, having been in power Dr. Fox will give the president's In Schenectady for the last two address Monday night, and Judge years, makes no bones about their Gilbert D. B. Hasbrouck, president nominees. Their contention is that of the Ulster County Historical the business of city government is a Association, and Dr. Lawrence H. specialized one, which should be in Van den Berg, pt·esident of the New the hands of those qualified by ex- Paltz State Normal School, will also perlenee. Accordingly, they have speak. placed in the field a ticket suppos- A.fter hearing more hi:otorieal pu- edly well-known as party wheel- pers Tuesday morning on ~ubject~ horses. varying from balladry to \The Lo~t All parties agree that there be no Island of Rhips,\ the party will salary cuts for city employees, po- rna ke a tour of the historical an•u (Continued on Page 4) !Continued on Pago 4) Presence of the New Gasoline Pump Behind Washbllrn Hall Is Explained The c-ollege did not realize when it installed the new gasoline pump behind Washburn Hall that its presence would stir up the com- ments and suggestions that it has. So, to avoid any more remarks or Insinuations on the matter, it has been decided that an eKplanation of its advent might relieve the minds of many. Its installation was suggested to the college authorities by Char-les T. Male, newly-appoint- ed assistant to the· Comptroller, as a means of saving money for the c<JIIege. Before this year, the gaso- line for the use of the colleg-e trucks was contained in a 500-gal- lon drum which was stored in one of the sheds on the campus. There were several drawbacks to this ar-- rangement. The first and largest difficulty was keeping gasoline in the drum, because people would, on occasion, break into the shed and drain off the gasoline for use in their own automobiles, The second difficulty was a financial one, for since the drum would only hold 500 gallons, it had to .be refilled fre- quently without the benefit of the reduced price which accompanies larger orders. The new tank puts an end to both of these drnwbacllts. It not only maltcs it pr·acticaliy impos- sible for anyone to help himself wh.cn he needs gasoline, but as the tank stores several thousand gal- lons, the college can buy the gaso- line at a great reduction. A third reason for its installation is that it ia more conven.ient and easier to handle for the college trucks than it was when it had to lJe pumped from a drum, rn Tuesday's issue of The Con- cordiensis it was suggested that since the gas pump was evidently going to grace the campus perma- nently, its presence, if not welcom- ed, might at least be endured if its color were a trifle more subdued. In regard to this matter, Comptrol- ler Anthony Hoadley is more than willing to meet the students half- way. \We should be glad to co- operate with the students in this matter, and will paint the pump any color they wish.\ Suggestions will therefore -be welcomed. Several undergraduates have been wo.ndering if the students will be able to purchase gasoline for their cars from the new pump. Mr. Hoadley regrets to say that they will not; that only the college ti'uclts are to benefit by its pres- li)nce. Outstanding men of vat·ious de- nominations are listed to address the Union College students and faculty at the twenty-three Sunday chapel services during the coming academic year. Tomorrow Dean Philemon F. Sturgis of the Cathedral of St. Paul, Bo:oton, Mass., will begin the scrie::s of outtiide speakers. Last Sunday Dr. E!dward Ellery, chairman of the Union College faculty and chait- man uf the Division of Mathemati~ti and Science, delivered the principal addresti at the service. With the exception of four men the list for 1935-36 includes speak- ers who have at one time or an- other· preached on the Union Col- lege campus. The lbt of speukt•rs for the hal ance of the year follow: October 6- Dr. Henry S. ColTin, President of the Union Theological Seminm·y, New York City; October 13-Bishop John T. Dallas, of New Hampshire; October 20--Dr. Al- fred E. Stearns, Principal Emer- itus, Phillips Academy, Andovet·, Mass.; October 27- --The Rev. Wil- bour Eddy Saunder3, Headmastt\t of ttle Peddie School, Highltitown, N.J. Speakers fo1· Novembl'l· November 3- Dr. Albert G. Corn- wall, of the Par·k Church, Elmir~; November 10- Dr. Donald R. Ald- riPh, of the Church of the Ascen- sion, New York City; November 17 -- Dr. Geoq~e Hugh Smyth, of the Hitchcock Memorial Chur-ch, of Hartsdale; Novembet· 24--The Rev. Thomas L. Harris, of the Church of St. Luke and The Epiphany, Philadelphia, Pa. December 8-- Bishop G. Ashton Oldham, of the Diocese of Albany. January 12 Dr. Douglas Horton, of The United Church of Hyde Park, Chicago, Illinois; January 19 -Dr. Charles Brown. Dean Emer- itus of The Divinity School of Yair> University; January 26-- President R. B. Ogilby, of Trinity College, Hartford, Conn. February 2 Dr. Lynn H. Hough, of D1·ew University, Madison, N.J.; Februm·y 9--Dr. Gem·ge C. Vincent, of the Union Congregational Church, Upper Montclair, N. J.; Februa!'y 16-The Rev. Elmore MeN. McKee, of the Trinity Church, Buffalo. March 1 Dr. Charles Alexander Richmond, President Emeritus of Union College; March 8--Dt•. George Van Santvoord, Headmas- ter of the Hotchkiss School, Lake- ville, Conn.; March 15-The Rev. Hugh Black, of the Union Theolog- ical Seminary, New York City; March 29-Dr. Andrew Mutch, of the Bryn Mawr Presbyterian Church, Bryn Mawr, Pa. April 19-Dr. George A. Buttrick, of the Madison Avenue Presbyter- ian Church, New York City; April 26- Dr. Percy Kammerer, Provost, of the Avon Old Farms School, Connecticut. June 7-Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox, President of Union College, will de- liv~r th@ E11ccalaureate add1·ess. Attempting to recapture as much of the mo{)d of the original as pos- sible, the course has extended a general invitation to the students to attend if and when they want to. Although the play formally begins at 8 o'cloclt, the audience is by no means required to act and attend formally. It may enter and depart as it pleases. \King Cambyses\ has a definite ---a- EngineerS to Study For License Exams Twelve-Week Course Offered to Pret>are Students for Professional Tests classical interest, not only for its A short a.nd intensive training own part in Englbh literature, but course is being organized by the becau,;e it receives ptominent men- Division of EnginPering for the lion in Shakespeare's \King Henry benefit of engineers in the vicinity IV\ part 1, where Falstaff and of Schenectady who plan to take Prince Hal play a burle:;que of it, the examinations for Professional Thomas Pr·eston, the author, was Engineer-s Licenses next January. a Cambridge scholar· of some stand- The course will cover the section, ing in collegiate circles. He seems \Planning and Structural Design.\ to have been an actor of some note, All applicants for a state engi- besides, for when Queen Elizabeth nee ring license who have had less l · d n · · 6 than 15 years experience must take v Site t e Umvetstty in 15 4 • she the examinations and the section of was so delighted by his perform- ance in a play called \Dido\ that planning and structural de:oign is she awarded him a pension of 20 required of mechanical, electrical, pounds annually. chemical and civil engineers. Begins October 7 Mr. Carroll's idea in presenting The first m€eting of the class will the play is to recapture, in perform-. be held in the Civil Engineering ance and in staging, the ideas of Building at Union College on Tues- the day. Costuming will be rudi- day. October 7, at 7:30 p. m. All men tary, as it undoubtedly was in registrations for the course must the original, and the actors will be completed before the opening wear their oldPst clothes, for the meeting. play ts a bloody one. The settings The cours~ which is to be offered will be in the Serlian manner, with this year will be of 12 weeks dura- the three stage enhances and a tion, the class meeting once each general setting. week for a two-hour period. Pro- Each of the 10 men in the course fessor Robert Abbett, who directed will play an aver·age of five parts the coUl·se last spring, will again In the course of the production, a be in charge. slight impt ovement over the first This is the second year in which perfOl'mance, which was acted by this class has been conducted at only seven men and a boy. Union. It is an outgrowth of the The play has not been cut in any activities of the engineering soci- way, and the vulgarities and ridicu- eties of the city, including The Iously bathetic language have been American Society of Mechanical retained. According to Mr. Carroll, Engineers, The American Society of this is necessary because from a Civil Engineers, The American In- >~cholarly point of view, which the stitute of Electrical Engineers, and course is attempting to adopt, the The Pr(}fessional Engineers of the pluy must be given in the original. State of New York. Last year 45 students attended the classes. -- ----- 0 - ----- Outing· Ch~b Will Spend \V eekend at New Cabin Since the course is limited to 12 weeks the work will be intensive, -and the n urnber of men who can take the course is limited. Appli- cants may communicate with Pro- fessor Abbett for further details. For several years the freshman cap business has been negotiated by students not connected with the Student Council, it was revealed. President Grants Concession According to Charles Krull, presi- dent of the Student Council, only one student approached him last spring asking to .be put in charge of the cap concession. Understand- ing that the right to negotiate with clothing firms for the privilege of dispensing freshman caps could be given by the council president to the senior he considered best quali- fied for the job, Krull appointed the sole applicant and conferred with him during the summer over the two bids received. The clothing merchant, who has sold the caps for the last three years, has repeatedly signified his willingness to dispose of the profit from the cap sale in any manner the college desires. He wants the business only because it brings his store to the attention of the new students. Student Agent Explains When interviewed by The Con- cordiensis, the student middle-man frankly recounted all the details of the transaction. \lt was about six or eight months ago,\ he said, \that I discovered that a student had had the privi- lege of selling freshmen hats last September and that this concession had been granted to him by the Student Council. At that time I de- cided I would put my name in for the job of selling hats to the pres- ent freshmen cll!SSl. Accordingly, when the new Council was elected last spring, I applied fm· the busi- ness through its president. At a later date, I was iuformed that I could go ahead with the caps. The whole affair was conducted in a business-like manner and I fail to see but one reason why a store should complain. \There are better ways of selling these caps than the method used in the past,\ he continued. \The fault, however, does not lie with the Student Council or myself who (Continued on Page 4) Armed with pots, pans, blankets, and axes, the Union College Out- ing Club will leave the campus by automobile tomorrow afternoon to spend the week-end at North Creek. Starting at 2 o'clock, they will spend their day and a half hiking in the vicinity and working on their new cabin. Modern Theatre Tending Away From Broadway Toward Worker's Theatre With the leaves turning red and brown, to herald the approach of winter, the club will begin to lay in a season's store of firewood, and to caulk up all the chinks in the eight- room building. Arrangements have been made with the Schenectady Winter Sports Club to work on the preparation of the skii trails at Rotterdam Junction, and more physical exer- cise will fall to the club's lot next Sunday when their turn comes to work. The Winter Sports Club started their share last week, and will probably finish it Sunday. All men interested in the skiing this winter are urged to do their share in the preparation of the trails. WALLACE T, FOOTE In the opinion of Mr. Edward L. Carroll, Director of the Mounte- banks, the theatre of today is tend- ing away from Broadway and the drawing room type of play toward Worker's Theatres, or as Dr. Thomas H. Dickinson of the Insti- tute of the Theatre believes, toward Music Drama. The usual \picture frame\ stage, which made ideal setting for drawing room plays is being supplanted by the so-called new methods of staging, such as transverse staging. where the stage extends out into the theatre, with the audience facing it on two sides. These methods however, are not new at all. They were used by the Greeks and Romans long before. the coming of the \;plctUl·e frame\ stage. This last, Mr. Carroll ex- plained were first used at The Far- nes! Theatre, in Parma, only four hundred years ago. \These new methods should not be taken too seriously, however,\ said Mr. Carroll. \Some theatrical companies take them too seriously, and place more emphasis upon the staging rather than upon the drama,\ as the main interest of the audience lies more in the drama than in the staging, this subjecting of the drama to the staging entails disregard for the audience. \There must always be a definite regard for the audience,'' concluded Mr. Carroll. \Talking over ·their heads, and being too high-hat means the aeatll of the theatre.\

. :1 : r ! I. .. Two .THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, SEPTElVIBER 27, 1935 ;; chant pays an individual student for a non- existant privilege granted by the Student Council. The student entrepreneur cannot be blamed for his part in the game. lie plays [~=C=O L=U M==N~~: ] This week we're going to be a lit- is a bayonet in Musso;ini's ~le!~ AROUND THE WORLD By RICHP..-RD SNYDElR Repercussions of the ltalo-Ethio- pian dispute: \A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ FoUioJDlm 1877 tle different. Once in a while we. glove. That could never mppe d Union. The bayonet is remove a variation of the old comic role of the man get tired of ourself, for which we, alan\' with a monkey wrench and a ***The Labor -party in England has split over sup:!Jor.l of the Gl!lvern- ment in its .policy toward Italy. 1935 Member 1936 who sells fol' someone else an article which does not exist, and pockets the 1wori t him- self. He shows the only intelligence in the can't be blamed, and decide to do \' Ai Force something about it. First we look squadron of the Ita:lian · .r . · Over t he edge of something big. h Dean Berg forgives Mussolml upon the latter's p1omising to go ng~t and steep, Taproom price:>, fut·. tn- home after the fight and take hiS 6tance, und then we think we might hair down and have a good cry. a,; well mend our ways. Accord- And Mussolini is back in. He breaks ingly:--- . away. There he goes! Five yard~! ••*China fears that Japan \Will take adva:ntage of ·European •PI eoccu- pation with the Mediterranean crisis to further extend her con- trol in Northern China under the pretext of opposing Communism in China. l:::\)ssocia\ed Collc-6iat0 Press Dis~ributor of CbUee>iate Di6est ::-\ult' auti L'X'dU:-.IVt· uat1uH.rl atl\l'lll .... illg rt•lll't·~l'llta t 1 '\t·:-~ whole silly hu::;iness. Ladies nnd gentlemen. may 1 Ten! Fifteen! Twenty! Oh. no, tlus have your attention please! Next isn't that ltind of a fight. ·They are we have the main bout of the eve- spaning now in the middle of th.e ning, and -he1-e is G1 aha:U: McCal'th- ring. We notice ~fr. and Mrs. P~1l namre to tPII you about 1t. Present.~ Smith in ringstde seats. Ha1le ing. ladies and genllemen~ \Max misses Mussolini and catches Phil '**The formation of a new cabinet in Spain is a direct res17Jt of the present war scax,e. Pres1dent Za- mora has declared he wishes a: united cabinet t0 lend strength to Spain's position. :-,;;.\Till:-;.\ I. .\ll\'El·tTI::;I=-:<; :-1EHYI<'E, 1.1«'. IJtl ~'ladt~un .\\·l'ltllt' :-.:v\\ Yolk t•il.\' t'hka~t' . Ht~~·n11 . :ktll Fratwi~· o - L~•:-: .-\.n~t-lt~~ l'ol t laud - ~t·aU It• The offlcl~~wgpaper of the students of Union College. Published Tue::;days anti l'tidays thr()ughout the college year, except during Christmas and spring recesses. - -----------·· -- TO ELEVEN Ml<~N- Yesterday's New York Herald Tribune an- nounced the debut of Union's 11ew footl.ntll Mussolini, who is coming 1nto the in the vocabulaty. Oh, God, the lin~ 1 -ight now prote,;ting that he pain!!! Haile',; blows are now as doc:n•t want to fight -unless he's !lim and vigorous as the pulsatiom sure he can win, and the adobe at- of intellectual life at UnioJ?· . The taclter from Addis Ababa, Haile S~- gong sounds just as Mussolml tot· lassie sometimes called Joe, who 18 ters. The round is over. sittin:,. in his corner with his fiJ?- '**At their convention recently in St. Louis, the United Vetera:ns of Foreign Wars proposed a consti- tutional amendment to keep America permanently out of war. Pl!blication Office, The Gazette Press, 33-1 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone -1-1141 st1uad to the S[)Ul'ts world. The article de- gers \'crossed. This broadcast IS Round Three sponsmed by Union College, the 'I'he sponsot•s feel they aren't ge~- SC!'i Led a light but will in?,· team, an eleven faculty of which. represented by ting enough advertising out ~f thlf '*'There is some confusion in the United StatcB' State pepartrnent as to the policy to follow concern- ing neutiality 1ights. If Italy and Ethiopia fight, it will be a viola- tion of the Kellogg Pact to which the United States is a pa1ty. Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Claos Mail Matter lllUCh weakened U.)' graduation losses and in- eligibilities, but str·eng-thened b~· enthusiasm and hnrrl t1·aining-. \An iron tL>mn,\ acco1·d- Dean Berg, is refereeing the fi?;ht. ptogram. So this round Will. be Be ;urc to srnd your son to Union. omitted whil~ Prof. Waldron g.1ves the college with a past. The gong a little talk on the history of Union sounds and they're off! Neck and College. neck down the track-I beg your Editorial Rooms. Silliman Hall, Union College Campw. Telephone, Schenectady, oJ.-u133. Senior Board Van Vechten Trumbull ........ Editor-in-Chief llt•lta l'hl H~~u~c 4- 1 Jt).lj Alhert H. Stevenson ........... Sports Editor ing· to the spo1lswriter. We have seen select teams picl\ed from army-like squads lose lo eleven stro11g- men with scarcely tt substitute to relieve them. pardon. 'rhry clinched and I got a Ro1md Four •·**Marine Insurance .premiums were increaded last week as much as one hundred and fifty percent thus putting a severe price on shipping to some parts of Europe. P~l l'p~qluu lltJU~t....._--4-~'ilU Robert C. North ................. News Editor LJl'lta l'p~tluu llou~t.--- ·4-i~l:.!~ Wallace 1'. Foot<• ............. Feature Editor little confused as to what 1 was do- The gon)!; again. Thls is liltP a ing. A college education at Union Chinese play. They rush to the cen- would have p 1 eventt!d that. The ter of the ring. They rebound. Th.ey clinch i:; very cat·efully broken by rush again. They rebound agam. Dean Berg. And they're at it again. Things are going fine. Haile is \ook- Haile gets in ,;even, or was it eight'? ins around for the League of Na· lefts to the solar plexus, or there- tions which has just arrived in an a bouts. Mussolini was watching ar m01 ed car loaned by Great Brit- These men were trained to coordinate like a England out of the corner of his ain. The League, however, retires pye and was off guard, but now he into a barbed-wire enclosure and opens with his -right and catch~s otands arm-in-arm for moral sup· Haile light in the Standard 011 port. But it seems that Haile won't Company. Time has been called!!! need the League. He's coming in It has been found that Mussolini ;trong. Mussolini has backed right has a machine gun in his tight up to the Alps. He crouches: he glove. Dean Berg is giving him .a tries to guard, but Haile's left, and good tallting-to. And so I take th1s his right, too, break through. Mus- ***An extraordinary budget has been proposed by the Minister of Finance in France. Most of the money is to be used for the na- tional defense. France is also ex- periencing some domestic poli- tical u·ouble between the Right and Left forces. Alpha Pt•lta Phi Hou~e--- lt;7::tt Daniel B. Wohl ........... Circulation Manager _____ .::.h 00 'a:.opp:L ~u Ht,w.::_l~~--~~!!__ Junior Board ASSOCIATE EDITORS single unit, a well-tuned machine which needs no relief. And behind ther:n wa.s a vast sup- porting force, a student body ·with but one thought-victo1·y. Milton Bedell Ralph Cohen Fenton Gage Richard Passenger Fret! Feldman Carlton Garrison T-his year Union has eleven such 1nen. opportunity to name over to you solini tries to kick Haile but Dean some of the many celebrities pres- Berg catches him by the anlde and ***Hitler has also taken advantage of the threat of armed confiict to loudly voice his objections of Lithuanian treatment of Ger- mans in the Mcme1 territory. Germany has also heen 1 ejected by Great Britain in an applica- tion for a loan. ------------------ They are enthusiastic. They al'e mnbitious. ent at this p·eat fight. There a1e shakes a finger at him. And now · Dean and Mt·s. Garis <tanding in Haile lands a haymaker right on Sophomore Board They are trained to coordinate. clent support, they should win. \\T1th stu- the aisle looking for their seats. It the jaw. and Vesuvius erupts. Mus- seems that Dr. and M1s. Ellery got solini is down, down as you'll neve1 here fin;t and took them. I can see be down if you come to Union Col- Dr. MUI·ch, Dr. :Muvor, Prof. Bton- lege. One, -two, three, four, five. ner, Tom Gould, and many othe1 six! Poor Dean Berg! He's forgot- notables. De:~n Berg is still talking. ten his slide rule! These engineers! The gon,; ::;ounds and the rountl is I Anyway. Mussolini is a Latin, and In the Mail J. Bundgus R. Doig W. Dean Assistant Editors H. Enzer H. Hartmann C. Trahman M. Muroff R. Ferguson \Ve m·ge the campus to unite Lehind them. We ask for crowded bleachers. And we de- To the Editor: mand moral support. To the undergraduate over. he can't quite understand the I Ed •t <.:' R 1 1 C hen Round Two Dean's dialect. But the fight is over. Some class-room comments im- puted to me in the Tuesday (Sept. 24) issue of Tile Concordicnsis have been brought to my attention-two days after their appearance. May I say at once that I am responsible for none of them. ssue • 1 or .•........ · . · · ~. a P 1 ° l>ody we address a serious appeal f ot• side- and Mussolini is helped from the • • 1. • • d d' · Haile is at it again with his left. rlng loudly protesting that it must Assistant Issue Editoi'S lme enthuswsm, amuttlon, an COOl' IllatiOn. Mussolini's Roman nose looks lilic have been something he ate. Haile F. Feldman ~I. :\luroff To the football squat! of 1933 we extend our ~~ai~:s~~s:;!fi~Jeis h~~~u~~~~; n~~ ~~r!~to;:~l'~\;~ 1 ~~ ~a~~~te;hw~~t 1 1 ~ best wishes and support. Good lucl\ to them 1 His left lashes out with a hard one, have the same itlea. Pandemonium. to Haile's head. Haile is signaling I J?inis. the referee. He claims that the1e The first of them-\Most men at- tending college today are nothing but sons of emancipated pants presser\-is a garbled report of the influence of our modern theory of F1lday, September 27, 1935 FACULTY POLITICIANS EUT1'0N, BUTTON, WHO'H GOT 1'HE BUTTON? Pl'imary day is ovel'. Bally-hoo is getting under way all over the city. We will not have The little flurry uwr the business of offi- tu stmy far to enter the thicl< of the battle. cial freshman haberdashery reported else- Tvvo of the men right in our own midst, Dr. where in this issue is notable for two aspects. Waldron and Professor Cummins, are among those running- for offices on the newly First, the childlike innocence of the Student created city council under the dty manager- Council, and second, the incredible naivete · 1 Ial p an. of the Schenectady clothing merchants. The new procedure of the social studies Apparently, the Student Council has had division is to send the men to Albany for \interneship\ while working at their courses. a tidy little business opportunity on its hands Why not obviate this 17 mile journey by giv- for the last four or five years and has given ing the students a practical training right it .away to the first enterprising student \vho here on the campus? IIow about bringing asked for it. Indeed, most of the Student our candidates out into the open and hearing Council members are unaware that they what they have to say, what thei1· funda- have anything to do with the selling of caps mental issues are, what they will tl'Y to do to the freshmen. The matter has been taken for Schenectady if they end up at the top of the poll? cate of without bringing it up at a meeting We can well afford some political stimulus for group action. The Council has passed up within these walls. We are sick of politicians. the cllance to augment its treasury with Ar.e college professors more reasonable in commissions on the sale of freshman caps their philosophy of government? Because of in a very unselfish manner. such self-sacri- theil· idealism, can they keep the do-llar sign out of politics? President Roosevelt's ·~urain­ fice should be encouraged. tt·ust\ was a total flop. Is the1·e any indica- As for the downtown merchant who has tion that Schenectady's \brain-trust\ will been supplying the green-buttoned caps, he . succeed? also has been decieved. He thought he had At least there is this in their favor: we all know Professor Cummins and Dr. Wald- an monopoly, and it seemed that he had one. l'Oll to be men of the highest moral chara-cter The privilege of having 200 college boys, and of unfettered sincerity. Theit· political many of them new-comers to Schenectady, aspirations are far removed from self-ag- walk into his store and perhaps become perm- grandizement. Can they weather the dam- anent customers, was worth paying- for. But ineering influence of self-seeking- parasites if his monopoly is a precarious one. There is voted into office? no_thJng to prevent any other merchant from so:V ~:~~~~t ~~~~ ~r·P!~i~r~~b~~: ~~oft~~ stocking up on caps and offering them for campus, if only for the sake of om· learning sale, A freshman cap is not unique; who their platforms. How about a livtl political could distinguish the counterfeit from the of-· campaign he11e to ascertain whethe1· or not ficial a1ticle? our decision to vote for both of them can be substantiated on grounds othel\ than our p.er- The l'esult is crazy merry-go-round whicll sonal admiration for their good fellowship is only kept going l>,y ignorance. The nier- and scholady a<:hievement? F. H. - ---- ------ ------ ------- II Now Showing Tempest in a Teapot m· a Night With Shanghai Gert Thiti little bit of adventure on the \China Seas\ was designed to tihow the great American public that ther·e still exists some romance on the high seas. Replete with tor- tures, pirates and Jean Harlow, all it managed to do was to bring a lump to the throat of the Legion of Decency--the fact that the sltipper, 'Bunny' Gable and Ia Ha1low wet e not married was a perfect thumb to the nose attitude which we rather enjoyed. Wally Beery as the deceitful third party turns in a good performance even though he doesn't give a single line as it wao originally written. Notable is the premiere performance of author Robert Benchley who remains de- ligh.tfully stewed th10ugh the whole thing, miraculously escaping from a grll.nd piano which seutters about the ship's lounge dm ing. a storm and doing some wonderful panto- mime. Piano by Steinway! Jean Harlow is about the tough- est thing west of Troy. Gable is about the hammiest thing west of Swift & Co. Technical direction well done. The story is a good ex- ample of trying to make an omelet out of one egg. T. S. We finally got around to one of the second run theaters, to wit, the Plaza. Of all things Peter Lm-re was co-billed with Laurel and Hardy. The Laurel and Hardy pic was better than most of their vehi- cles but didn't measure up to their \The Devil's Brothe-r\. Mr. Lorre was done a grave injustice by the vehicle visited upon him. \Mad Love\ merely is a kind of rehash of the old Laughton eye-rolling forced upon a man who is really an excellent actor, and he does a good job of iL we must admit. The pic- ture Is an interesting melodrama with .the . ~ays office writ large upon xt. It 1s worth seeing for the wonderful screaming of Miss Fran- ces Drake and the virtuoso acting of Mr. Lorre. Again we reiterate that the seats in the balcony of the Plaza are the most wonderfully soft theater seats that ever happened. J, ;B. D. Stuck Gomes to Albany popular education without regard On Monday night the Manhattan for fitness or qualification, cou<:hed Player.> opened at the Captitol The- in terms I remember having applied ater in Albany with \Her Master'::; last year in an entirely different context to certain high powered ty- Voice\ by Glare Kummer. This coons of the movie-industry in group iH the first stock company to Hollywood. come to Albany in several years. The second-\Most of you gentle- Apparently they want to stay. At men are still in the knot-hole stage any rate theit· program contains a of sexual development\-consists of a phrase drawn from a book-review long list of planned p10ductions in- by Clifton Fadiman in an issue of eluding \As Husbands Go\ \Craig'::; The New Yorker in Decemher, Wife\ \Smilin' Through\ and \Ac- 1933, of Noel Coward's \Play-Par- cent on Youth\. T1 1 e curtain ade\ which collection had then re- cently appeared. I carefully quote-d speeches by the producer, Guy Pal- the whole review in class, without me1ton, and various members of the amplification, or deletion, in order cast expre::;sed a sincere hope that to illustrate a state of mind only the Capitol dish ict would welcome too apparent In present-day life, which had been inveighed against a return of the legitimate theater. by Thoreau, whose \Walden\ the After a long isolation broken only freshmen were about to read. by occasional visits from Hampden The third comment-\! care noth- and hi:; ilk, it is very likely that it ing for any of you and have no will. And the Manhattan Playen personal regard for what you get out of my classes. I consider it a aren't charging very much, either. privilege for you to come here and !Not a paid l!d.l listen t() me\-hardly warrants ser- As to the merits of their per- ious attention. No self-respecting formances, or rather of the one per- teacher with any concern whatever formance we saw, well--it must be f?r the value of his work could pas- born in mind that they are a stock stbly ~ave uttered so patently ab- co~pany. They have one week in surd-1f not downright criminal-a wh1ch to prepare each play. They :emar~. ~ can remember once hav- haven't the money for s-umptuom mg sa1d 1n class that in college, ~ets.. Enough that they create an whete more advanced wo1·k and a 1llus10n and put on a show. And more mature approach are expected that they d() with more than re· of the student, an instructor gener- s~ectable competence. Moreover, ally f~nds ti.me to serve at most as Its very pleasant to have the Jegiti- a. guide Without arrogating unto mate stage and professional com- hlms~lf the added function, com- pany within reach, even if it's a ~on m preparatory schools of act- rather long reach. Schenectady will mg as a kind of intelleetuai police- have to drive to the capital or else man as well. Beyond such scant be content with the Civic Players grounds, I cannot conceive myself INot a slam.) · as ~~ving committed any such im- F. H. ?ectl~ty as the foregoing quotation 1m piles. . ';audevllle ain't dead. (Ed. note- I have perhaps already usurped 1 ~ 11 .t dead>· We said It ain't and it ttoo much space in noticing a mat- am t<Ed. note-we give up, it ain't). er which might better have been The Mer(}ff revue at Proctor's · left un t' d the best unit show we've seen tios no tce . I have done so, part- d t It · ly out of a natural irritation and t•a e. 1s well constructed, well partly because of the prlncipie in- lme~. has the tempo of an Enzer yolved. For the purpose of obtain- and IS generally smooth. Meroff mg th.e most desirable and the most who resembles both Cantor and E' effective results, it seems to me E. Horton-don't ask me how-ls ~ that the classroom ought under P' 00 d showman, as well as an exper- normal conditions, to be ;egarded ~enced mimic. Jackie Marshall his ash ~ .Place of inviolable privacy, r~~~pet Lplayer has a sensati~nal w e1 em student and instructor may me- aurel, Hardy, the three proceed to th b stooges, J,oe Penner-that's M-ar- t' b . . e est of their respec- sh 11 w !Ve a ihbes to accomplish th _ h a f · e re a little sick of colored pose for which each· of theme phuars oo ers but Peter Ray is noth' come th but a streak-a smudge. Their t:~ conf'd ere. Without this mutual or has a rang rk 1 ence, an antinomy is set up r'fl Oh e 1 e a long distance wtlhich would militate with devasta.- 1 e. well, what more can we fng effect against the fulfillment say-go see it. o such purposes It b . On the same Bill, Ray Francis slonall i · · · ecomes occa- and George Brent in 'Tha G t Y. ncumbent upon an instruc- and The G d • oose . or anxxous to present all the var- lovely. an er. The sets are lOUs fac~ts of any particular matter under dl~cussion to venture certain '1:. S, (Contlnl.lea on Pa. 8 e 4 ) Gridmt ._warri<J Nine Lettern to Middlel:J This The football se1 row afternoon fo team. Almost a ' drills in building lective action on will be climaxed the Garnet gradu season to the re bury College, for grid schedule oJ will be the min initiation into th dlebury, Vt. The Vermont varsity lettermet: · positions, has bee . ishing touches to week, engaging against its secon1 . net has had con t this week altio ag1 and the seconds. Coach Hatfield, increased visibly practice week, h1 ·by the ineligibilil fuls this fall. As entire new bacl built up. The l strong veterans, I of comfort to t however, and sl Middlebury offen ,For the startin the Dutchmen ' Charlie Krull, al in the left half b~ who was one . tackles on the li be using his pa! prowess to good backfield. Ernie and dependable ~ played his first year, will fill the Dick Woodruff, aUa last year 'by arable play in s< call the signals i position. The ri: devolves upon Ja crosse man who year of varsity shown some p1 practices and ma receiver for Rrul Waldt•on, 1\ Starting at the probably be Jlm Waldron. Marotl first time on the - the right end w ond high scorer year who has be( a few days rece: injury, will fill Frank Gatchel more lineman a eran, will play morrow. Jack heavyweight wh a soph()more, wi other tackle posi and swift linem~ the line defense Union has had i play the right g Riggs, who imr year, the first I game, will flank left. Paul Campbel portant task of will have to fal than last year's ter to adequatt midsection of tl ing during the 1 proved, and he f cided asset on t: The reserves will be: Hank I LeTarte, Art : · ' Ackerman, Herr ard VanEpps, In the ba-ckfiel( ward 'Cammarc Homer Swart, Donald Fenton, Sloatman, NeVI Bullard, Van La f()rd. Veteran M:i The starting dlebury eleven Lovell, a sopl: Hank MacLea.II and Elwood He ior, as guards: and John Seix:i the heaviest m -probable starteJ tackles. Bill C bush, both who sity last year, the end positioJ The ·ba<Jkfield seeing service 1 together. Only < : Guarnaccia, 181 : Lawrence Leete l, Ruggeri, ful1ba• , thony Golembt ! the three sen!o: - ~ cleus of the ]J. ,1 The prdl>able \. tomorrow: RE Craig ... ._ ,I RT Seixas .. , RG Hoxie,., ·1 C Lov-ell .• _·,j LG Ma-cLean 1 LT Hoffman 1 LE Forbush j QB Leete , .. ·1 LHB Guarnacc RHB Golembe1 , FB .Rugged • ,:,i

io- a: in of tn- ich ms on of the na- ex- ali- of ted im- two ible at- the of ty- in s of of re- life, the no get it a and ser- ever pos- ab- hav- a as act- cant im- rped mat- been part- and in- tain- me nder may pur- bas t up truc- var- THE CONCORDIEN.SIS, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1935 rhree Gridmen Will Oppose Powerful Panther I •.Warriors In Opening ·Game Tomorrow INTRAMUJIAL ATHLETICS II s I D E L I M E s Rules for_·_To_uch-Football L=====;;;;B;;;;y;;;;A;;;;L;;;;;B;;;;E;;;;R=T;;;;H;;;;.;;;;S;;;;T;;;;E;;;;;V;;;;E;;;;N;;;;;S;;;;;O;;;;;N======;;;;;dl ®-------------------------------------------------- Many of the leading large college elevens will once again grapple on the griuiron in their opening tilts tomorrow. Colgate, Cornell, Pitt, Navy, Fordham, anti Da1 tmouth will all stage the it· initial battles on home grounds, and althoe~gh thei·r opponents differ considerably in strength, no serious opposition shoulu be encountered unless possibly St. Lawrence pulls a surprl:>e against Cornell. In the south and west, Alabama, Geor- gia Tech, Michigan State, Minnesota, Northwestern, and Stanford all maku their debuts with set-up games. Nine Lettermen Reported to Middlebury Squad This Fall Start Garnet On Forty-Fourth Year SIZE OF FIELD< The dimen- sions of the field shall be :no ft. · long by 160 ft. wide, including the two end zones of 30 feet each. The football season starts tomor- row afternoon for Union~s varsity , team. Almost a month of daily \ udlls in building up bodies for col- lective action on a football team will be climaxed tomor:cow when the Garnet graduates fiOm the pre- season to the real thing. Middle- bury College, for 11 years off the gt'id schedule of the Dutchmen, will be the ministers of Union's initiation into the season at Mid- dlebury, Vt. The Vermont eleven, with nine varsity lettermen filling the vital · positions, has been putting the fin- . ishing touches to its practices this week, engaging in scJ'immages against its second team. The Gar- . net has had continual scrimmages this week also against the yearlings and the seconds. Coach Hatfield, whose squad has increased visibly since the first practice week, has been hampered 'by the ineligibility of many hope- fuls this fall. As a result almost an entire new backfield had to be built up. The line, composed of strong veterans, has ·been a source of comfort to the varsity coach, however, and should hinder the Middlebury offense somewhat. PLAYERS--No members of the varsity and f1·cshman football dquads or football \U\ and \aUa\ men wHl be eligible. Nine players tihall constitute a learn. On ot'fentic, live playez·s mu.,t be on the lin~ of ~crimma~e und four player:; at ll'a~t one yard behind the line at the lime the ball is snapped. EQUIPMENT- Players are pro- hibited from wearing batiebull, track, m· metal cleated ~hoe:;. SUBSTITUTIONS Vnlimite•l substitutions will be permitted. LENGTH OF GAME AND TIE GAMES-Two periods of 12 min- utes each shall constitute a game. In case of a tie the ball :;hall be · placed in the center of the field and each team given five play:; al- ternately. The team that has ad- vanced the ball by rushing into its opponent:> territory shall be de- clared the winner. No punting shall be allowed during this period . KICK-OFF-The kiclt-off shall be made from the kicking side':; goal line. YARDAGE AND DOWNS -The> offensive team mu:>t score in fom downs or relinquish possession o~ the ball to the opponents. FORWARD PASS - Forwall: passes my be thrown by the of- fensive team only, from any point behind the line of scr·immage am! all players of both teams are eligi- ble receivers. TOUCHING OR \TACKLING\-- A touch (tackle) occurs when an opponent touches the ball carrier with his hand. The ball is dead at the spot of the touch. PENALTIES-AI! penalties shall be .one-half the distance prescribed in the football rules. All games will be played at 12 :·15 .p. m. sharp. No postponements due to inclem- lJuion will marl~ its initial encountPr by a renewal of a 10-game bet•ies with 1\liddleuury Collt>ge which was ended in 192*. The l'an- thers won the last tussle 19-0, but the Dutchmen were ahead for the series with four victories against three, while three of the tilts ended ·in eH'il scun•s. This year the Vermonters ar<l exceptionally strong with a \eterau line intact, and two ace ball-toters to zip through the boles. However, the Garnet line has shown its defPnsive strength in scrlmmagt•, :so the battle should be fought right 111• there on a line with the ball. It will be in te1·e,;ting to note the outcome of the game at Burlington tom.onow too. Two of Union's future rivals, Vez,mont and R. P. I., will ·be at it hammer anu tongs in their mutual opener. AI though Rensselaer is supposed to be consitlembly weaker than in pa::~t years, the result of thi:; f1·ay shuuld give ·u fair indication of the potentialities of the two team:;; tb fa1 as con!patative sco1c:; may be trusteu. The ''Little Three\ also open:; it:; SL'..t..<on tumoiTOW but with no great opposition ahead of them. ,---------. ====i ____ ------ -·--·------ : STEW ART WESSELS BARGAINS! Locksmith I Locks Repaired, Keys Fitted I 742 State St., Phone 2-3181 ·I . _II FRANK FERRARO Fruit and Produce The bost, for the least, with dependable service. 1231 Crane St. Tel. 2-7828-W I $165 $95 1931 Ford Deluxe Sport Roadster ..• 19 30 Ford Deluxe Sport Phaeton ..•. BRUST'S 1011 B-ARRETT Corner Union K & E SLIDE RULES ·For the starting bacltfield lineup the Dutchmen will have Captain Charlie Krull, also tackle, playing in the left half back position. Krull, who was one of the strongest tackles on the line last year, will be using his passing and kicking prowess to good advantage in the backfield. Eenie Brown, letterman and dependable ground gainer who played his first varsity ball last year, will fill the fullback position. Dick Woodruff, who earned his aUa last year 'by his brief but mem- orable play in several g&mes, wlll call the signals in the quarterback position. The right halfback post devolves upon Jack Smith, star la- crosse man who is playing his first year of varsity football. He has shown some possibilities during practices and may be the backfield receiver for Krull's passes. CAPTAIN CHARLIE KRULL and COACH ELLIOTT HATFIELD . ent weather will be granted unless authorized by Mr. Lawrence of the Department of Physical Education. Tribune Sports Writer Tentative Fl'Osh Team Formed lJauds Changes in Rules With Good Season Predicted Wald1•o:n, Marotta. Ends Starting at the wing positions will probably be Jim Marotta and Van Waldron. Marotta, playing for the first time on the varsity, will take · the right end while Waldron, sec- ond high scorer on the eleven last year who has been out of action for a few days recently because of an injury, will fill the left end post. Frank Gatchell, 207 pound Balti- more lineman and seasoned vet- eran, will play at left tackle to- morrow. Jack Kearns, another heavyweight who played guard as a sophomore, will see action in the other tackle position. Bill Potts, tall and swift lineman whose ability on the line defense is one of the best Union has had in recent years, will play the right guard position. Jim Riggs, who improved greatly last year, the first he ever played the game, will flank the center on the left. Paul Campbell, fulfilling the im- portant task of centering the ball, will have to fall back upon more than last year's experience as cen- ter to adequately strengthen the midsection of the team. His pass- ing duting the past weeks has im- proved, and he should also ·be a de- cided asset on the defensive. The reserves for the Dutchmen will be: Hank Duchscherer, Duane In search (If news for the Con- COI'die your sport writer had the opportunity Wednesday afternoon of listening to the learned com- ments of J. A. Abramson, sports correspondent for the Herald Tl'i- bune, while watching the Ga:rnet gridmen go through their antics ·on Alexander field. Primarily an ex- pert of track and field events, Mr. Abramson, now on a tour of Union, Hamilton, Syracuse, Rochester, and Hobart, made many pointed ·re- marks pertaining to sports in gen- eral. An unassuming man, Mr. Abram- son ha:s worked his way up to an enviable position in sporting circles. Talking of no sport in particular, he touched on varying aspects of the fight game, tennis, football and various experiences he has en- countered during his writing ca- reel'. Some of the interesting facts gleaned from contact with Mr. Ab- ramson are: The Baer-Louis fight outcome was inevitable. Baer never had a chance against the Brown Bomber from Detroit. * * . LIO!'l'arte, Art BJ\eymaier Harold .Ackerman, Herman Greulick, How- ard Van Epps, and Emery Burton In the ba.ckfield; Joe Milano, Ed- Track is becoming of more and ward 'Cammarota, Stuart Irvine, more importance in collegiate and Homer Swart, Francis .Agostini, · undergraduate worlds. Donald Fenton, VinG Smith, Jack Sloatman, Newton Ritchey, Art Bullard, Van Ladd, and Burns Bar-' ford. .. Coach Nelson Nitchman's frosh gridmen are rounding into a well- groomed team as evideneed by the defense put up against the varsity in Wednesday's scrimmage. Nitch- man has now lined up hi::; first string team with Henderson and Thomas at the wing positions, Ter- hune and Irish at tackles, Mulcare and Stevenson flanking the center and Balter at the pivot post. In the backfield, Amazon, Czech, Max- well, and Comenza get the first call with Garnett and Burrell getting the first choice among the reserves. The four outstanding subs for the line include Murphey, Grant, Maines, and Teare. Weak in kick- ers, Nitchman will drill in this phase of the game, stressing pass- ing offensively and defensively at the same time. Scrimmaging will be an important factor in next week's dtills and thereafter will be limited to once a week against the varsity. At the present writing the frosh coach is hopeful of a success- ful season, which, if the team lives up to other frosh teams in the past few years, means a clean sweep, or one loss at the most. 0, ___ _ PLEDGEE NOTICE Joseph Lubansky, '39, was pledg- ed by Kappa Nu yesterday, increas- ing that fraternity's pledgee list to 13. This year the double elemination system will be used, whereby a team must lose twice before being eliminated. Thus, the final game will be contested between the win- ner of the loser's bracket and the winner of the winner's bracket and the former must win two successive games to become the champions. The competition is under the supervision of Mr. Lawrence. All inquiries. concerning it should be directed to him at the Gymnasium. Phone 4-6605. Schedule September 30 Alpha Phi Delta vs. Theta Delta Chi on the Council Field, Burton officiating; Phi Delta Theta vs. Alpha Delta Phi on the Council Field, Sloatman officiating; Neu- trals vs. Delta Upsilon on the Alex- ander Field, Rynasko officiating; North College vs. Delta Chi on the Alexander Field, Milano officiating. October 1 Kappa Sigma vs. South College on Alexander Field, Burton officia- ting; Delta Phi vs. Phi Sigma Delta on Alexander Field, Milano officiating; Sigma Phi vs. Beta Theta Pi on the Council Field, Ryn- asko officiating; Sigma Chi vs. Kappa Nu on the Council Field, Sloatman officiating. JAMES E. DAY, Optician Prescriptions Filled or Duplicated General Repair Work 604 Union St., Cor. Ban·ett St. 3 Blocks Below College Gate PHONE 2-3464 Log Log Tri~ Slide Rule 40~0-3SL with K & E Improved In- dicator. ••• of thousands of engi- neers thtcughoul the world. \True\ and depeudable always. America's foremost tnanu{J.ctuTer of Drawing Ma .. terials, Surveying Instruments and Measuring Tapes CHICAGO ST. LOUIS SAN FRANCISCO MONTREAL WELCOME STUDENTS! We're at the old stand ready to serve you for all your wants We have a Complete Line of PARKER PENS and PENCILS STATIONERY CAMERAS FILMS and SUPPLIES TOOTH PASTES SHAVING CREAMS, Etc. SUPER FOUNTAIN SERVICE Jacobs Pharmacy Just above Green Gate on Nott Street I. J. LINSEY, Prop., Union '22 Veteran Middlebury Team The starting J!neup for the Mid- dlebury eleven will have Edgar Lovell, a sophomore, at center; Hank MacLean, six foot veteran and Elwood Holde, 167 pound sen~ ior, as guards; Randall Hoffman and John Seixas, 195 pounder and the heaviest man on the llne, are This year, because of two impor- tant changes in football rules, namely the lowering of the cross bar to 10 feet, and the rule that states the referee shall not blow his whistle until the ball's forward motion has been stopped, more thrills will be forthcoming through intricate latera:! pass plays and more attempts for field goals. Psi Upsilon annonuces the pledg- ing of the following men: Carl Cole- man, Troy; Raymond Lewis, Peeks- kill; Payson Hatch, Willsboro, N. Y., and Richard Burrell, Rochester. All of the Class of 1939. ::::::;::::m:::::::n::::::::::::::m:::::i::::H:::::im:m:::m:mm:::::;::m::::::::m::m:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::m:::::::::::::::m::::::m:m::::n:::m;::::::::::::::::mH:m:n!!~ I ~ m Have you ordered your Magazines yet? i: m ~ m m ·probable starters for left and right tackles. Bill Craig and Dick For- bush, ·both who starred on the var- sity last year, will again play in the end positions. The ba<Jk:fleld has three veterans seeing service for the second term together. •Only one sophomore, Paul ;:, Guarnaccia, 181 pounder, is a back. ' Lawrence Leete, quarterback Frank . \ Ruggeri, fullback, and Capt~in An- ' thony Golembeske, halfback, are \ the three seniors who form the nu- . i cleus of the Middlebury offensive. j The prdbable starting lineup for \ tomorrow: RE Craig ............... Marotta ·. ,! RT Seixas ...•...... , . , . Kearns , RG Hoxie , ...• , ..... , . . . . . Potts ·t C Lov-ell .............. Campbell .·.j LG Ma-cLean •.......... , . Riggs ~ LT Hoffman . . . . . . . . . . . . Gatchell ·, LE Forbush . • . . . . . . . . . Waldron l QB Leete ....•........ Woodruff ·~ LHB Guarnaccia .•.....••... Krull THE Printing Where men are welcome. CAZETTE .. .. Eng~aving Union always PRE.SS . . . . Binding m m m m ~ m ill We supply any periodical ~~~ m m !!l published anywhere-in any m m rn iii language. 1ii m 1 ~ I !!I Special Rates to Fraternities m m ru m ru m ru H~ STUDENT SERVICE BUREAU !!! m ill m m m Hours 2·6 P. M. Silliman Hall Phone 2a3366 ill m ill ~ m RHB Golembeske •..••.••• , Smith ''l FB Rugged , • ., • .. ,..,,,. iSfOWJI.. Ll;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;==-dJ fii:m::mmm::mmmmmm:::::m:mmmm:::::::m:m:m::m::mmmm:mmm:m:m:mmm::::mm::m:m:m:::m::m:::mm::m:::::::m:m:::m::::::::m:mmm:m::i/{i

'· : ,,·, Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1935 Faculty Membe.rs \ Enter Elections 1 Chem Students to Hold Picnic in Helderbergs Activities Office Lists Regulations The chemistry department will Requisitions for Expenses play host to about 3 6 of its B. s. students tomorrow when it plans to Must Follow Orderly conduct a picnic at Indian Ladder, Procedure N. Y. in the Helderberg mountains. Regulations applying to the busi- ness affair;; of the vat·ious student activities on the campus were is· ::;ued this week by the Student Ae· tivities Office. The rules follow, ir slightly condensed form: l'urchaslng l'rocootU'l' The picnic which is in the hands of a student committee of three, Gustav F. Hallstrom '36, Herman D. Kluge, '36, and Carl R. l<'aeiton, '37 will be held as a result of the :mccessful one held last year by the physics and chemistry departments. The chemistry students plan to 1. Manager mu~t make out r<'qui leave the college tomonow at 1:30 sitions at the Student Acti\·1tic>> p. m. The afternoon will be spent Office for goods desired, giving near the picturesque town of Indian type, quantity, estimated prieoe, ac- Ladder in having softball, touch count to which it is to be <\harged. football and other games. The stu- and place of delivery. dents plan to cook their own sup- 2. Signatures of both the Man- per which will probably consist of a<>er and. the CoOidinatot· must be steak and potatoes over open camp- o~ the requisition. The Activitie~ fires. They propose to return late Office will issu<\ the order for the tomorrow evening. goods. The original bills must b~ The picnic follows on the heels presented to the Student A~tivitie> of one which was held by the civil Office, and must have the ~igna- engineering depat tment last week. ture of both the Manager and the This innovation of the various de- Coordinator before the Comptroller partments seems to have talien will make payment. Bills will be place in order to promote friend- sent to the Comptroller's Office on ships and social ties between stu- the 9th and 24th of each month dent::; of the same departments. ant! paid bills will be filed there. Cnsh Arcuw1ts ---o---- Frosh C'ap Profiteering Shown by Investig-ation <Continued ft·om Page 1 > CALENDAR Dr. Philemon F. Sturges Will Preach Here Sund~y Tonight 8:00-Freshman Smoker, Silli- man Hall. Tomorrow 10:00--Daily Assen'bly, P•·,fps- sor Mc;wtimer F. Sayre, \Engl- neerin;;: 1800-1860. 2:80--Football, Middlebury at Middlebury, Vt. The guest spealter at the chapel service Sunday will be Dr. Bhilo- men F. Sturges, Dean of the Cath- edral Church of St. Paul, Bostcn. -- I (Continued from Pa·ge ll I !icemen, firemen, ami scho~l teach- ers and that all pr omotJOn>~ be ba~ed on the merit system. They Sunday 11:00 Sunday L.uapel. Dean Philemon F. Sturge.;;, Cathe- dral of St. Paul, Boston, Mass., speaker, Memorial ChapeL Monday 10:00--Student Body Meeting, Old Chapel. SOCIAL PROBLEMS FORUM There will be a meeting of the Social Problems Forum Tuesdm night in South Colonnade at 'i; o'clock. All those interested in na- tional and international problems ate requested to attend. ---0 ATHLETIC TICH.ETS The issuance of the Athletic tickets will be made from the stock room in the basement of the Gym- nasium between 1 p. m. and 5 p. m. upon presentation of receipt from the Bursar showing that the appli- cant has paid his athletic tax or that it:.J payment has been arranged for. - ----o-- -- SEASON TICI\.ETS 1\la:;s. Dr. Sturges, though born in are agreed also that superfluous Utica, N. Y .. received his early e<lu- political jobs be eliminated. The cation in Get·muny . He r:eccived Republicml party, however, uccor~­ the degree of A. B. from Y~de in ing to some, has not adhered to .tlus plank in their platform very stnctly 1896, and D. D. from the Episcopal during past years. Theological School in 1900. He also· Fox'o sta•,ement The text of Dr. ~ u holds the degree of D. D. from follows: Brown University. \Itlthe nomination of the faculty Dr. Sturges was formerly Assist- members) accurately reflects th<• ant to Dr. William S. Rains ford at accmate and informed interest St. George's Chur.ch, New Yor·lt; which om· college community t0;lte>< Rector of St. Petet·'s Church, Mor- in the affairs of the .larger nergh· ristown. N. J.; and Rector of Grace borhood. For many yeat·s mcmbere Church, Providence, R. I. Since, of our college family have been ser- 1926 Dr. Sturges has been Dean of ving 011 the school boards, the com- the Cathedral Church of St. Paul. mittees of public enterprises and Dr. Sturges has a personal inter- the directorates of important bus- est in Union College, for N•rs. iness organizations, but that our of· Sturges is the great-grand-daugllter ficers should this autumn take of Dr. Eliphalet Nott, grand-daugh- prominent part in what may .be ter of Alonzo Potter, who camE to called the major politics of the crty Union from St. ~aul's and the may be an added indication th~t daughter of Dr· .. Ehphalet .N. Pot- the city is entering an era of cnt- ter, former Prestdent of Umon. Un- ical importance in its hrstory. By ion is already acquainted with D'l·. the action of the voters at the last Sturges. as he preached at Sunday election Schenectady has under !a- chapel service a year ago. ken a revision of its scheme of gov- Dr. Fox Opens Meetin~· Of State History Group <Continued from Pa-ge 1) ernment which will give an oppor- tunity for statesmanlike advance in municipal administration. Only the opportunity is guaranteed. Every- Organ Recital Program Sunday, Septembel' 29 DR. ELMER A. TIDMARSH I. Ovet ture to . \The \ Merry Wives Df Wrnd:>or -.- ----- _ Otto Nwolai .- l!!dvard Ar- II. Praelutilum mas J arnefel t Evening Song - Robert l::lchumann Liebestraum .. -Franz Liszt III. Si·xth Symphony - Charles Mal'ie Wider CLUB NOTICE All clubs and organizations are requested to hand in to the Dean's Office a list of their ,officers, date, place and hour for regu!ar mee~­ ings, just as soon as. poss1ble: It lS important that this lllformatwn be received for the College cale~dat• and for the College telephone duec- tory at once. Tuesday h,~s be~n de~­ ignated as \Club Night agam th1s year, and all regular clubs shoul_d schedule their meetings on thts night. ------0 ---- DEAN'S UST ADDITION The name of Benjamin J. Wilson, A. B. course, Class of 1936 should be added to the Dean's List. THE ACME BARBER SHOP 1. Unuergtaduate,; co 11 \e tin g funds shall is$Ue 1 eceipts to the purchaset· keeping a duplicate ropy for the Coordinator's Office. No ex- penditures shall be made from the funds collected. Funds should be deposited at the Comptroller's Office, and a receipt obtained ami filed at the Studt>nt Activities Office. 2. Each activity may opetate a petty cash fund, to be held as a 1 e- volving fund. The original disbut·se· ment.s will be entered on the Co- ordinator's books as Petty cash Fund, and the amount held intact through the year. unless a change is found necessary. 'When the original petty cash given to the Manager is exhausted, he will pre- sent receipts for the expenses and will be given cash or check to cover them, on the approval of the Comp- trolle1'. were merely following what appar· ently has been done formerly, but ra.ther, in the fact that no provision is made in the Student Council, Constitution concerning this mat·l ter. Therefore, the Council, whieh conducts and enforces Freshmen Rules, has had no definite policy to which to adhere. For this reason. I sincerely hope that some arrnnge· ment can be made which will takt· care of the cap situation perman- ently and rid ali misunderstanding which might arise.\ This year the Athletic Depart- ment will offer to the students, faculty, and the genetal public the opportunity of purchasing season tickets for the football games. The ticl,et will sell for $5.00 and include all four home games. They entitle the holder to a reserved seat and prefer- ences for seats will be filled as far as possible by the Athletic Department. Tickets will be mail- ed to the purchasers in ample time for the contests scheduled. in the vicinity. They will go first to New Paltz, to see the old stone houses of the Huguenots: then to Stone Ridge a.nd ft om there past the Ashokan Reservoir and Dam tc Kingston whet e they will inspect the famous Senate House and the State Historical Museum nearby. The rest of the day. and the da) following, will be spent in the read ing of papers on various aspects o! New York state hi;;tory and in hold· ing the business meetings of th€ Association. thing else depends on the character, equipment and devotion of those se- lected to guide the experiment. \Governments like clocks\ said William Penn long ago, \go by th~ motion which men give them,\ but fortunately, or unfortunately, they do not, like clocks, go of themselve,; when once started. Welcomes All UNION COLLEGE Students \College students, listening to pro· fessors day after day sometime~ wonder if the outside world tal,es these interpreters as seriously a~ those before them in the ?las~room 509 UNION ST. Cash Advances for Trips 1. Managers should procure cash advances large enough to cover all expenses for their trip. Two days' netic!' is required if advances PX- ceed $25, Balance remaining after the trip should be returned to the Comptroller, and reports made out to both Comptroller and Coordin- atot· on forms obtainable ftom the Comptroller. 2. Guarantees and shares in gate receipts are to be deposited with tht> Comptroller and the receipt de- posited with the Student Activities Office. 3. ExpensE's connE\<\ted with hom<' performances are to be paid out of the petty ca>h uceount. Ca;,h ad· vances may be obtained for use as change. Gate 1 ect'tpts plus cu:;h advances are to bt• deposited with the Comptroller after the pet form· ance and the 1 eet·tpt ubtum<·d tllt>d with the Student Aettvttws Offict'. T'elE\phunt\ and TelE\graph Ali toll charg••,; • ••Xct•pt t ho~P made on uut·uf·town t 1 il\' I arl' to be chat gt·J to tl~l' ~t udrnt .\eli\'· itie:; Office tcle!Jl:une • l-~71'<1 Alii such calls mu~t h•· autll<•tiz•·d hv I the ('our dinntor. :md nwmnrand:t :1·, to the tol!, r~rtivity. and l\'t'nn cnll~d mu't h\ f\!Pd with him l'ostago General postage charges cover· ing rorrP~pondence will bt> defrayed by the Student Activities Office. Charges involvinlo( the shipment of cuts, arttcles, and publlcations must come out of the individual activ- ity's account. Stamps may be pur· chased at the Comptroller's Office. Bool•store Supplies may be procured at the College Bookstore, where credit will be extended. Office The Student AC'tivitie,; OffirP will be open from 1 to 5 P. M daily PX· cept Saturday and Sunday. A stE\n· ographer will be in attendance to handle all stenographic work. The Coordinator will have t·egular office hours every Monday, Wednesday. and Friday from 1:15 to 2 P. M. ---0 In the Mail (Continued from Page 2l criticisms upon the established or- der which may not be altogther to the liking of a particular membH of his class. Should such an unfor- tunate situation arise, a considera- tion for the amenities of college life would seem to preclude the practice of ripping the offending remarks entirely out of their con- text for the purpose of publication in the college newspaper, much to the embarassment of the instructor in question, and at the cost of per- verting the truth. In all fairness - and even in terms of the principles of sportsmanship inculcated on the football gridiron and the baseball diamond~such procedure violates the tacit assumption upon the ful- crum of which all classroom dis- cussion turns. PHILIP A. SMITH • ae leaves of Turkish to- b,zcco are strung one by one like bec1ds (st'e /ww it is done in tlzt' picture). • -fjit'l' the lt'u7-•es t~re struug tlu~v are p,J£'k,J in buks ( S<t' picture) -SOJJtt'!illlc'S tiS 111<11/Y as 80,LHI lr:a·vr:s to the- bale. We have on hattd at all ti11tes for CHESTERFIELD cigarettes of 350,000 upwards of Turkish tobttCCO ••• bttfes The pleasing aroma and flavor of Turk- ish tobacco is almost necessary if you want a good cigarette. Turkish tobacco is more costly when you take into account that you have to pay 35c a pound duty, but we have to have it to blend with our mild ripe home- grown tobaccos. It helps make Chesterfields milder, it helps give them better taste. lust try them. are expected to. The nommatton of two of our faculty in so consequen-~ I NEAREST THE CAMPUS tial a contest brings a reassuring answer to that question.\ • ~Ar {) • · for mildness • • for better taste Vol. LIX., No. Dr. Linds To Give I Governm• Eminent Colu Will Be Fi Speakei Five Oth• City Managei Will B« In~ The study of g< colleges and in study in theory, has taken a. c Union this year i State and Loca practise-the p which will begi1 Monday, October of a group of lee Rogers, will ad< on problems of t The series of planned to bring hand obser:vatiOJ have had an opp the vitals of some of whom selves an integra There will be si will take place a month a:pa.rt First Ta Dr. Lindsay J present Professo Columbia, will 8:15 next Monda some of the prol Works Adminis· seen tJ:!em. He administrator of Chairman of tb Review in the ministration. H Moreland Comn: gate the operai Compensation in The second le old Baker, the Rochester, who 12 on problems· work as city r will discuss the as ~ whole. LectlU'e Another lectL December, and second semester by men promine ernment in All one of them worker from N The speakers through the ins Fox and of French, Assoc Government, w new course in 1 tion. Dr. Ft·enc ing most of th to Union. He Rogers as SeCJ of Labor Revie has secured U:: trator for the series. Survey: Site of { Find Condi1 Satisfactor Laid ii Members oJ made their fire end to Inspect cabin near n: Adirondacks, satisfactory a: vey Saturday all cracks in caulked, the ' Sunday with : and succeeded of more than heating and c• The cabin, able to Unio1 in outdoor act the end of w hiking distat: mountain pea: ing, and is 01 country fron: mountain ski sands of win· flock each wi one quarter-1 lake, the cabi ing and swln (ContiiJ

