Welcome, Guests, to the I Junior L ... :~~-_j Vol. LVIII., No. 55 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, MAY 3, 1935 • StS Student Council, Terrace Council Elected ................. PRICE FIVE CENTS Gala Junior Prom To Be Held in Gymnasium Tonight Many Fraternities Are Holding Dances Torno rrow ~·-----------------------------------------------------------~ Eleven Houses Are Planning Dances, Parties Tomorrow Popular Singer at Prom Tonight Large Attendance Expected Affairs Range Ftom Strictly Formal Dances to Vic· trola Parties; Three Fraternities Holding Week· end House Pa1·ties .for Their Guests Eleven fraternities will augment the regular Junior Week festivities by entertaining their prom guests at parties and dances tomorrow evening. These affairs will be of a wide variety, ranging from formal dances of the \please- ~-------------------------- Traditional Movingaup Day Rites Held This Morning At Brilliant Social Function Approximately Two Hundred and Fifty Couples Will Dance Tonight in Dreamy and Colorful Atmos- phere of Transformed Gymnasium The Class of 1936 will make its social d.ebut tonight when two hundred fifty couples, dancing to the music of the Dorsey Brothers in a dreamy atmosphere created by soft lights and blended colors, take part in the annual Junior Prom. ------------------------~This event will mark the first · Dorsey Brothers Famous For Smoothness, Rhythm gathering of the class since they at- tained seniority this morning and will serve as their opening bow to campus society. present-invitation\ kind, to informal victrola parties. Altogether, the soft lights will be on at nine fra- ternity house dances tomorrow eve- ning. One house is holding a tea dance in the afternoon, and one a special dinner-dance away from the campus. Th.ree House Parties Most of the dancing tomorrow night will continue until 1 o'clock,. ·thanks to daylight saving time, and with but two· exceptions they will start at 9. Following the old, traditional ceremonies which have been little changed during the course of many years, the class of 1935 formally joined the body of Union alumni, and the other classes \moved up\ to take the places of their predeces- sors, at the annual Moving Up Day exercises in the Memorial Chapel this morning. Culminating long hours of labor The Alumni Gymnasium has a!- . and worry, the atmosphere for the . ready been transformed into a ball- cool fragrance of a more than ordi- room lined with deep tinted tapes- nary Junior Promenade will receive tries and heavy drapes. Tonight . final details late this afternoon, and these walls of color will be bathed the ball room which will be scarcely in ever changing floodlights which recognizable as the Alumni Gym- will adjust each delicate shade to nasium will be in readiness to ac- the mood of every dance. The ceil- comodate 250 couples who will ings have been hung with light dance to the inspiring music of the green and white curtains to blend Dorsey Brothers' orchestra, an or- with the green plants and flowers ganization already well on its way on the floor. Three fraternities, Delta Phi, Kappa Alpha and Psi Upsilon, have deserted their respective houses to make living quarters for their guests. While the girls sleep in the fraternity houses, their escorts dou- ble up In the dormitories and in neighboring houses wherever their are extra beds. This changing of class status was symbolized by each class taking the places regularly occupied in daily assembly by the class one year ahead. The graduating seniors, proud and fidgetty, in their caps and gowns, filed to the front of the chapel, and stood facing the rest of the student body while everyone stood up and sang the Alma Mater. · to the top. Seventeen Booths Recently contracted to play at the Glen Island Casino, the Dorseys have already been hailed by critics as one of the really great modern dance orchestras of the future. It Chaperoning the Delta Phi week- end house party will be Mrs. Ed- ward Hewlett; Mrs. Kurt von Forst- meyer will be in attendance at the Kappa Alpha party, and the Psi Upsilon chaperones will be Mrs. Al- bert Stevenson and Mrs. Eleanor Fox. · was after Glen Gray arrived at Glen Island that he achieved such fame Around the edge of the dance flo()r seventeen booths have been ar- ranged for the use of various fra- ternities and one for a neutral group. These are separated by wicket grates and fences to create the appearance of many small flower gardens. The bandstand at one end of the hall was constructed espe- cially for the Dorseys and has been equipped with powerful amplifying facilities. The moving up ceremonies came at the end of a special assembly program which began at 9 o'clock with the faculty and student body marching into the chapel in an academic procession. The members of the faculty, gowned in black with the brightly colored hoods of their respective degrees, lead the proces- sion, while Dr. Elmer T. Tidmarsh played the organ prelude. They were followed by the seniors, then the juniors and sophomores, and finally the freshmen, who were wearing .their green caps for the last time. ' among lovers of dance music every- where. Popular opinion will be given the opportunity to accept the Dor- seys during the 1935 season, as they The Chi Psi fraternity will hold a formal dance at the lodge tomorrow night from 9 to 1. Red Carino's or- chestra will furnish the music. The Delta Phi's dinner-dance tomorrow from 8 to 1 will take place at Reilly's Lakehouse at Saratoga lake. Earl Strickland and his orchestra will play at the Delta Upsilon for- mal tomorrow evening at the house from 9 till 1. Dance Despite Fire Damage Kappa Nu fraternity will hold a victrola dance from 9 to 1 tomorrow at their house. Kappa Alpha's floor, damaged by fire Sunday morning, is temporarily re-enforced, so that their formal dance tomorrow eve- ning can go on. Bill Mayotte and his orchestra from Miami, Florida, will play. The Kappa Sigma formal will start at 10 tomorrow night and continue till 1. Don Curtis' orchestra from Glens Continued on Page 10 A portrait of Dr. Edward Ellery was unveiled by President Fox, who spoke briefly of the importance of the professor in the college world. Kl.ay Weber, charming blues singer who has :made a great hit with radio listeners. Her solos and her duets with Bob Crosby, brother of the famous Bing, have that \certain something\ which makes a crooner popular. Headed for the t()p, like Dorsey Brothers' orchestra with which she will sing tonight at the Junior Prom, Kay ~ Weber has the personality-that will keep her there. Fraternities and Neutrals Announce Prom Guest List of Over Two Hundred ~:----------------------------- The singing of the traditional Allouette Song came first on the Delta Phi program. George Stroebel and Ray- Well over two hundred g11ests will mond MacDowell cast aspersions on be present this weekend for the The Delta Phi's week end house their classmates and each other gala round of festivities which will party wil be chaperoned by Mr. and with great gusto. appear on the campus to celebrate Mrs. Edward P. Hewlett. Bernie Edward Frank, secretary of the Prom weekend. Several of the Collins and his Orchestra of Sara- Athletic Board, then presented life houses are giving house parties toga Springs wil play at a dinner- passes to aU captains and managers over the weekend and many are dance tomorrow at Riley's Lake- of sports. holding dances on Saturday night house, Saratoga Springs, N. Y. as a further round of entertain- The Delta Phi guest list follows: College Men of '88 Liked Brunettes According to Newspaper Survey ment after Prom with all its Misses Ruth E. Johnson, War- glamour has filled its function as cester, Mass.; Jane Wadsworth, the greatest social event of the year Philadelphia, Pa.; Carol Boyce, on Friday night. As this is by no Syracuse; Vivian C. King, Queens means complete it is to be expected Village; LaVonne Kelsey, Weeds- that there will be an even larger port; Margaret Wells, Johnstown; number at the Prom and in attend~ Janice Nierman, Schenectady; ance at the dances on Saturday Melba Ann Fox, Schenectady; Ai- d night to make the weekend highly teen Spring, Schenectady; Emily In 1888, the New York Press sent A New Jersey student explaine : successful. The announcement of Adamson, Glens Falls; Esther E. circulars to nearly all the American \! am away from home at present, the house parties and dances to rbe Watson, Gloversville; Virginia Van colleges asking for a five hundred but as soon as I get to my materials held and the guest lists follow: Rensselaer, Morris; Susan Doty word articles on \What Kind of a I will write.\ Several students Griesemer, Washington, D. C.; Girl the College Man Likes Best,\ wrote under the Impression that Chi Psi Mary .Seamans, Marathon; Zelia and printed: in a later issue seven In some way their local fame had The Chi Psi fraternity is holding Winter, Middletown. Of the many articles received. reached New York. One began, t Y ld tl f iliar Wl 'tb a dance at the lodge tomorrow eve- Del._ Upsilon Three of the seven were writ en \ ou are ev en Y a~ d c t\ f \'\' by Union men, the Press saying: my work on our college newspaper.\ nlng. The orchestrla, ~e a 9 100 0 The Delta Upsilon fraternity will th b A Columbia lad . said that American Schenectady will Pay rom p. m. hold a dance tomorrow night from \that in proportion to e num er to 1 a. m. Dr. and Mrs. Younie and Of rep lies sent from the respect_ive girls were stuffed with vanity and 1 M'll . 11 hap 9 p. m. to 1 a. m. The orchestra · d that he for one Mr. and Mrs. Pau 1 er W1 c - will be Earl Stn\ckland's of Sche- seats Of lea rning the boys of Umon Ignorance, an . . ld I t hi id I A Joh n erone the affair. 'll b College, Schenectady, N. Y. car_ry wou mpor s ea · Chi Psi's guests will be: nectady. The chaperones WI e Of f the .palms for brightness .• or,1,g- Hopkins junior In a burst of agon- M . B tt Gl ersville· Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Bronner · · e claimed that there are Misses arma a y, ov ' and Mr·. ·and Mrs·. Charles B. Hurd. inality, and mode of expression. 1zmg vers Alice Remington, Watertown; From the qualification stipulated no more modest girls. Claire and Ruth Wilson, Mamaro- The guests of Delta Upsilon will in these articles, the ideal girl was Few had thjc ctou~age to P~~ge neck· Mary Critchfield, Hartford, be: found to be brunette-lblondes 'be- Into the sub ec a once. ey Conn'.; Edith Kruse, Schenectady; Misses Jane Hooper, Vassar Col· ing entirely ruled out~witb raven- ambled around it shyly through the Carolyn Craymer, Troy; Mildred lege; Roxy Huson, Potsdam, black, flowing hair, big black eyes, first two hundred and fifty words, Eeaton Glens Falls; Jane Smith, Normal; Vivian Malia, Waterbury, rosy cheeks, pearly teeth, and dlm- and wound up by unloading their Schene~tady; Katherine Curtis, Al- Conn.; Glenna LaPatra, Watertown, inutive size. Dimples were much opinion onto the shoulders of an- b. any; Lucille Aldin!, Schenectady; N. Y.; Dorothea Gahagen, Sche- in demand, and intelligence was, other college \fellow.\ One or two Jane Rogers, Schenectady; Beryl netcady; Patricia Stearns, Schenec- for the most part, not a necessary p 0 fut 8 tsheenirtimo~~~~~~:r lfo ;_a f~l:rf:. Whipple, Fultonsville; Marj_?rY tady; Dorothy Wiedrich, Rochebster, asset. A Princeton student said Worthington, Binghamton; Eliza- N. Y.; Ann Zabriski, Ogdens urg, that girls were too \willing and a A Cornell man freckled his opinion beth Roff, Buf:(alo; Marjory Mable, N. Y.; Betty Le()nard, Schenectady; senior at the University of Penn- with the editorial \we and when Albany; Mary York, Albany; Aug- Natalie Phillips, Ridgewood, N. J.; sylvania wrote that he could send the freckles were removed, so little usta Achilles, Schenectady; Dorothy Jeanne and Doris Humphrey, En- in editorials on economics or an· was left that it couldn't be used. Lewis, Schenectady· Annette dicott, N. Y.; JeMl McDongall, article on the Wharton School of' A great many of the college men R New Rochelle-' Kay Tolley, Duanesburg, N. Y.; Miss Laura E. Finance, but felt that he was un- spent more ti~e denounciD:g the N~;.er:itocheUe; Betty Moran, Sche- Shipe, Elmira, N. Y. able to cope with the present ques- girl they didn t like than mt de- nectady. Continued on Page 10 tion. scrloblng the girl they liked lbes • received Glen Gray, The Dorseys are coming to Union directly from the Palace in Boston and a stand at the Great Meadow Inn at Deerfield. Tomorrow night they will play for the Dartmouth College prom in Hanover. Then they will dash westward to fill an en- gagement in one of Cleveland's leading casinos. Unique arrangements have been planned especially for tonight's prom, In addition to their usual features, the Dorsey Brothers are presenting a new program by their novelty trio, containing both har- mony and comedy numbers. To the conventional rhythm unit of piano, bass, guitar, and percus- sion, three banks of saxophones and three trombones have been added. The Dorseys, themselves regarded as musicians of the highest order, have served apprenticeships on sev- eral of the better radio bands, and have used this experience in build- ing up an orchestra distinctive for its smoothness and rhythm. For favors the Prom Committee chose identification bracelets of sil- ver mounted with the college seal, while the programs are white, trimmed with garnet. Bob Crosby, the younger brother of the famous radio crooner, who is himself an outstanding performer both over the radio and on the screen, and who bids fair to equal the popularity of the older Bing, will be the featured entertainer. Kay Weber, brilliant young Broad- way charmer, will also provide vocal accompaniment for the orchestra and together with Crosby will fur- nish several new and entertaining novelty numbers. Eight on Committee The Prom Committee, headed by Charles M. Krull, is composed of Richard L. Woodruff, Joseph E. Milano, Guy B. Griswold, Robert C. North, Edward H. Bastedo, Van Continued on Page 10 Red Stockinged Prom Trotter Falls Into Snowbank With Tragic Results The following little story, taken and overturned, spilling its occu- from a Concordiensis of fifty years pants into four or more feet of soft ago, may serve as a timely warning snow. to students who are apt· to become The Danger Signal over-enthusiastic during the present The junior was the first to regain week-end. True, weather conditions his feel, and as soon as he had done now are different from those exist- so he looked around for his com- ing when our unfortunate here of panion. She was nowhere to be hal! a century ago made his faux- seen, but his eye lit on a. bit of red pas, but the Idea is still the same. color sticking out of the bank, In those days, the Junior Prom which he thought was her mitten. was held during Junior Week, He therefore grabbed it, with the which came in ·February. The hero altruistic intention of pulling his be- of this story, a junior, had met a loved from the snowbank. The first most charming young lady at the pull brought forth a surprised little Prom--In fact she so completely squeal. He pulled again, and this overwhelmed him that he summon- time the squeal was louder. At last ed up all his courage and asked if --near success! One more pull and he might have the honor of calling the jubilant lad wowd have his darl- on her, as she was staying over ing saved, and standing beside him, with friends. She replied in the af- overwhelming him with praise. He firmative, so our jubilant junior ar- pulled, and immediately his joy ranged a coasting party for bls changed to consternation. What he light of love. bad mistaken for a red mitten was Everything went off beautifully. a red stocking, and a pretty, plump, The hill was steep and icy and the well-filled one .too! 1>0bs went fast-so fast that the girl· After the furor had somewhat had to put her arms around her not subsided, the junior brought the unwilling escort's neck to keep from young lady home, apoiogizing pro- falling off. It was at the bottom of fusely all the way. She said noth• the bill that the tragedy occurred: ing at the time, but the next day he the bob ran into a deep snowbank Continued on Fage 10)

r .. ;:lc~~;e~--- t Guests, f to the Junim· I I t f Prom J t--------------· • ...,. ••a•••au••••..,. Student Council, Terrace Council Elected Vol. LVIII., No. 55 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY~ N.Y., FRIDAY, MAY 3, 1935 PRICE FIVE CENTS Gala Junior Prom To Be Held in Gymnasium Tonight Many Fraternities Are Holding Dances Tomorrow Eleven Houses Are Planning Dances, Parties Tomorrow Affairs Range From Strictly Formal Dances to Vic- tl'ola Parties; Three Fraternities Holding Week· end House Parties for Theil· Guests Eleven fnd.ernities will augment the regular Junior Week festivities by entertaining- their prom guests at ,parties and dances tomorrow evening;. These affairs will be of a wide variety, ranging from formal dances of the \please- present-invitation\ l{ind. to informal victrola parties. Altogethet·, the soft lights will be on at nine ft·a- ternity house dances tommTow eve- ning. One house is holding a tea dance in the afternoon, and one a special dinner-dance away from the can1pus. Three House PaMiPs ~iost of the dancing tomorrow night wiii continue until 1 o'clock, thanks to daylight saving time, and with but two exceptions they will start at 9. Three fr atetnitie;:;, Delta Phi, Kappa Alpha and P::;i Upsilon, have de~et ted their re..,pective houses to make living quarters for their guests. While the girls sleep in the fraternity houses, their escorts dou- ble up in the dormitories and in neighboring houses wherever their are extra beds. Chaperoning the Delta Phi week- rnd house party will be Mrs. Ed- ward Hewlett; Mr~. Kurt von Forst- meyer will be in attendance at the Kappa Alpha party, and the Psi Upsilon chaperones will be Mrs. Al- bert Stevenson and Mrs. Eleanor Fox. The Chi Psi fraternity will hold a formal dance at the lodge tomorrow night from 9 to 1. Red Carino's or- chestra will furnish the music. The Delta Phi's dinner-dance tomorrow from 8 to 1 will take place at Reilly's Lakehouse at Saratoga lake. Earl Strickland and his orchestra will play at the Delta Upsilon for- mal tomorrow evening at the house from 9 till 1. Dance Despite Fire Damage Kappa Nu fraternity will hold a victrola dunce from 9 to 1 tomorrow at their house. Kappa Alpha's floor, damaged by fire Sunday morning, is temporarily re-enforced, so that their formal dance tomorrow eve- ning can g·o on. Bill Mayotte and his 01 chestra from Miami, Florida, will play. The Kappa Sigma formal will start at 10 tomorrow night and continue till 1. Don Curtis' orchestra from Glens Continued on Page 10> ~------------------·----------- Traditional Moving-up Day Rites Held This Morning Following the old, traditional ceremonies which have been little changed during the course of many year~. the class of 1935 formally joined the body of Union alumni, and the other classes \moved up\ to take the places of their predeces- soxs, at the annual Moving Up Day exercises in the Memorial Chapel this morning. Thi» changing of class status was symbolized by each clasl:l taking the places regularly occupied in dr..ily assembly by the class one year ahead. The graduating seniors, pr·oud and fidgetty, in their caps and gowns, filed to the front of the chapel, and stood facing the rest of the student body while everyone stood up and sang the Alma Mater. The moving up ceremonies came at the end of a special assembly program which began at 9 o'clock with the faculty and student body marching into the chapel in an academic procession. The members of the faculty, gowned in black with the brightly colored hoods of their respective degrees, lead the proces- sion, while Dr. Elmer T. Tidmarsh played the organ prelude. They were followed by the seniors, then the juniors and sophomores, and finally the freshmen, who were wearing their green caps for the last time. A portrait of Dr. Edward Ellery was unveiled by President Fox:, who spol{e briefly of the Importance of the professor in the college world. The singing of the traditional Allouette Song came first on the program. George Stroebel and Ray- mond MacDowell ca,;t aspersions on their classmates and each other with great gusto. Edward Frank, secretary of the Athletic Board, then presented life passes to all captains and managers of sports. College Men of '88 Liked Brunettes According to Newspaper Survey In 1888 the New York Press sent circulars' to nearly all the American colleges asking for a five hundred word articles on \What Kind of a Girl the College Man Likes Best,\ an<l printed in a later issue seven of the many articles received. Three of the seven were written by Union men, the Press saying: \that in proportion to the num~cr of x·eplics sent from the respect!vc seats of learning the boys of Unton College Schenectady, N. Y. carry off the' palms for brightness,. <J~~g­ inality, and mode of ex:presswn. From the qualification stipulated in these articles, the ideal girl was found to be brunette~~blondes be- ing entirely ruled out--with raven- black flowing hair, big black eyes, rosy ~heeks, peatly teeth, and dim- inutive size. Dimples were much in demand, and intelligence was, for the roost part, not a necessary asset. A Princeton student said that girls were too \willing and a senior at the University of Penn- sylvania wrote that he could send in editorials on economics or an article on the Wharton School of Finance, but felt that he was un- able to cope with the present ques- tion. A New Jersey student explained: \I am away from home at present, but as soon as I get to my materials I will write.\ Several students wrote under the Impression that in some way their local fame had reached New York. One began, \You are evidently familiar with my work on our college newspaper.\ A Columbia lad said that American girls were stuffed with vanity and ignorance, and that he for one would import his ideal. A John Hopkins junior in a burst of agon- izing verse claimed that there are no more modest girls. Few had the courage to plunge into the subject at once. They ambled around it shyly through the first two hundred and fifty words, and wound up by unloading their opinion onto the shoulders of an- other college ''fellow.\ One or two put their outpourings in to shape of a sentimental letter to a friend. A Cornell man freckled his opinion with the editorial \we and when the freckles were removed, so little was left that it couldn't be used. A great many of the college men spent more time denouncing the girl they didn't like than in de- scribing the girl they liked best. ---------------------------~ Popular Singer at Prom Tonight Large Attendance Expected Kiay Weber, charming blues singer who has made a great hit with radio listeners. HE\r solos and her duets n·ith Bob Crosby, brother of the famous Bing, have that \certain something\ which makes a crooner popular. Headed fm· the top, like Dorsey Brothers' orchestra with which she will sing tonight at the Junior Prom, Kay Weber has the personality-that will keep her there. Fraternities and Neutrals Announce Prom Guest List of Over Two Hundred Well <Jver two hundred guests will be ,present this weekend for the gala round of festivities which will appear on the campus to celebrate Prom weekend. Several of the houses are giving house parties over the weekend and many are holding dances on Saturday night as a further round of entertain- ment after Prom with all its glamour has filled its function as the greatest social event of the year on Friday night. As this is by no means complete it is to be expected that there will be an even larger number at the Prom and in attend- ance at the dances on Saturday night to make the weekend highly successful. The announcement of the house parties and dances to be held and the guest lists follow: Chi Psi The Chi Psi fraternity is holding a dance at the lodge tomorrow eve- ning. The orchestra, Red Catino of Schenectady will play from 9 p. m. to 1 a. m. Dr. and Mrs. Younie and Mr. and Mrs. Paul Miller will chap- erone the affair. Chi Psi's guests will be: Misses Marina Batty, Gloversville; Alice Remington, Watertown; Claire and Ruth Wilson, Mamaro- neck; Mary Critchfield, Hartford, Conn.; Edith Kruse, Schene<:tady; Carolyn Craymer, Troy; Mtldred Beaton, Glens Falls; Jane Smith, Schenectady; Katherine Curtis, Al- bany; Lucille Aldini, Schenectady; Jane Rogers, Schenectady; Beryl Whipple, Fultonsville; Marjory Worthington, Binghamton; Eliza- beth Roff, Buffalo; Marjory Mable, Albany; Mary York, Albany; Aug- usta Achilles, Schenectady; Dorothy Lewis, Schenectady; Annette Rogers, New Rochelle; Kay Tolley, New Rochelle; Betty Moran, Schf\- neetady. ~·------------------------------ Delta Phi The Delta Phi\s week end house party wil be chaperoned ,by Mr. and Mrs. Edward P. Hewlett. Bernie Collins and his Orchestra of Sara- toga Springs wil play at a dinner- dance tomorrow at Riley's Lake- house, Saratoga Springs, N. Y. The Delta Phi guest list follows: Misses .Ruth E. Johnson, Wor- cestet·, Mass.; Jane \Vadsworth, Philadelphia, Fa.; Carol Boyce, Syracuse; Vivian C. King-, Queens Village; LaVonne Kelsey, Weeds- port; Margaret \\' e lis, Johnstown; Janice Nierman, Schenectady; Melba Ann Fox, Schenectady; Ai- leen Spring, Schenectady; Emily Adamson, Glens Falls; Esthex· E. Watson, Gloversville; Virginia Van Rensselaer, Morris; Susan Doty Griesemer, Washington, D. C.; Mary Seamans, Marathon; Zella Wintex·, :Middletown. Df'lta Upsilon The Delta Cpsilor. fraternity will hold a dance tomorrow night from 9 p. m. to 1 a. m. The orchestra will be Earl Strickland's of Sche- nectady. The chaperones will be Mr. and ].[rs. Frederick Bronner and Mr. and Mrs. Charles B. Hurd. The guests of Delta Upsilon will be: Misses Jane Hooper, Vns~ar Col- lege; Roxy Huson, Potsdam, Normal; Vivian Malia, Waterbury, Conn·.; Glenna LaPatra, \VatPrtown, N. Y.; Dot·othca Gahagcn, Sche- netcady; Patricia Stearns, Schenec· tady; Dorothy Wiedrich, Rochester, N. Y.; Ann Zabrisld. Og-densburg, N. Y.; Betty Leonard, Schenectady; Natalie Phillips, Ridgewood, N. J.; Jeanne and Doris Humphrey, En- dicott, N. Y.; Jea:n McDongall, Duanesburg, N. Y.; Miss Laura E. Shipe, Elmira, N. Y. Continued on Page 10 At Brilliant Social Function Approximately Two Hundred and Fifty Couples \Viii Dance Tonight in Dream)' and Colorful Atmos- phere of Transfol'rned Gymnasium The Class of 1936 will make its social debut tonight when two hund1·ed fifty couples, dancing to the music of the Dorsey Brothers i 11 H dreamy atmosphere created b,r soft lights and l.Jlended culm::;, take part in the annual Junior Prom. ~Thiti event will mark the first Dorsey Brothers For Smoothness, F • gathering of the class since they at- anlOllS tamed seniority this morning and Rhj·thm i will se>rve ~~ their opening bow to can1p11s socwty. Culminating long hours of labor I . ! 11 : Al umn~ C?ymnasil:'m has al- and worry, the atmo,pherl' for the. l C<~U) been tr~ 1 ~:sfm med_ mto a ball- cool fragtance of a more than 01 ·di- roo~ ~med WI • deep tmted tapes- nary Junior Promenade will receive tne,., and hea\y drapes. Tomght final details late this afternoon, and tht·:-<<' walls of_ color wtll be bathed the ball room which will be ;;carcel;~r m ewr·ehangmg floodllghts wh1ch recognizable as the Alumni Gym- wtll odJu~t each ,dehcate shade 70 nasium will be in readiness to ac- th~ mood of every dance. _The ?ell- comodate 250 couples who will mg:> huve be~m hung. wtth llght dance to the inspiring muoic of the ~~:een and whlte curtams to blend Dorsey Brothers' orche~tra, an or- Wllh the green plants and flowers ganization already well on its way on the floor. to the top. :Seventeen Booths Recently contracted to play at the Glen Island Casino, the Dor~eys have already been hailed by critics as one of the really great modern dance orchestras of the future. It was after Glen Gray arrived at Glen Island that he achieved such fame among lovers of dance music ever-y- where. Popular opinion will be gi,·en the opportunity to accept the Dor- seys during the 1935 season, a,; they received Glen Gray. The Dorseys are coming to Union directly from the Palace in Boston and a stand at the Great Meadow Inn at Deerfield. Tornorxow night they will play for the Dartmouth College prom in Hanover. Then they will dash westward to fill an en- gagement in one of Cleveland's leading casinos. Unique arrangements have been planned especially fat· tonight's prom. In addition to their usual features, the Dorsey Brothers are presenting a new p1·ogram br theit· novelty trio, containing both har- mony and comedy numbers. To the conventional rhythm unit of piano, bass, guitar, and percus- sion, tht·ee banks of saxophones and three trombones have been added. The Dox·seys, themselves regarded as musicians of the highest order, have served apprenticeships on sev- eral of the better radio bands, and have used this experience in build- ing up an orchestra distinctive for its smoothness and rhythm. A1 ound the edge of the dance floor seventeen booths have been ar- ranged for the U»e of various fra- ternities and one for a neutral g-roup. These are separated by wickel grates and fences to create the appearance of many ::;mall flower garden..;. The bandstand at one end of the hall was constructed espe- c ially for the Dorseys and has been equipped with powerful amplifying facilitie~. For favors the Prom Committee chose identification bracelets of sil- vet· mounted with the college seal, while the programs are white, tnmmed with garnet. Bob Crosby, the younger brother of the famous radio crooner, who is himseLf an outstanding performer both over the radio and on the screen, and who ·bids fair to equal the popularity of the older Bing, will be the featured entertainer. Kay Weber, brilliant young Broad- way charmer, will also provide vocal accompaniment for the orchestra and together with Crosby will fur- nish several new and entertaining nm·elty numbers. Eight on Committee 'rhe Prom Committee, headed by Charles M. Krull, is composed of Richard L. Woodruff, Joseph E. Milano, Guy B. Griswold, Robert C. North, Edward H. Bastedo, Van Continued on Page 10 Red Stockinged Prom Trotter Falls Into Snowbank With Tragic Results The following little story, taken from a Concordiensis of fifty years ago, may serve as a timely warning to students who ar-e apt to become over-enthusiastic during the present week-end. True, weather conditions now are different from those exist- ing when our unfortunate here of half a century ago made his faux:- pa.s, but the idea is still the same. In those days, the Junior Prom was held during Junior Week. which came in February. The hero of this story, a junior, had met a most chat·ming young lady at the Prom--in fact she so completely overwhelmed him that he summon- ed up all his courage and asked if he might have the honor of calling on her, as she was staying over with friends. She replied in the af- firmative, so our jubilant junior ar- ranged a coasting party for his light of love. Everything went off beautifully. The hill was steep and icy and the -bobs went fast-so fast that the girl had to put her arms around her- not unwilling escort's neck to keep from falling off. It was at the bottom of the hill that the tragedy occuned: the bob ran Into a deep snowbank and overturned, spilling its occu- pants into four or more feet of soft snow. The Da.nger Signal The junior was the first to regain hi.; feet, and as soon as he had done so he looked around !or his com- panion. She was nowhere to be seen, but his eye lit on a bit of red color sticking out of the b-ank, whicl~ he thought was her mitten. He therefore grabbed it, with the a.ltrui:;tic intention of pull1ng his be- loved from the snowbank. The first pull brought forth a surprised little J:Jquea.l. He pulled again, and this time the squeal was louder. At last -ncar success! One more pull and the jubilant lad would have his darl- ing saved, and standing beside him, ovetwhelming him with praise. He p111Ied, and immediately his joy changed to consternation. What he had rnistaken for a red mitten was a red stocking, and a pretty, plump, well•filled one too! .After the furor had somewhat .Ollbsi<led, the junior brought the young lady home, apologizing pro- fusely all the way. She said noth- Ing at the time, but the nex:t day he Continued on Page 10)

Two \A Causa Persa Parole lltsai\ FouNono 1&77 Mf.M'Bt!F\ ~sodat~d @'olltgiatr 'Jn.ss -5 1934 <non;w~~Jlli.oed •19 35.,.. Mll>l$011 \'SCOIISj~ Sole and gxclusive Nat10nal A.dvtertisiug Hepre- sentative, National Adverti:slng Servll'e, Inc., 11 West 4Znd St., N. Y. C., 400 No. 11!-iehigan Ave., Chicago, Illmols, Chicago-Wrigley lllllg., Boston, Mass. The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fridays throughout the college year, except during Christmas and spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., 'Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents .a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. 'Telephone, Schenectady, 4--0133. Senior Boal'd Van Vechten Trumbull ......... Edltor-in-Chiet lldr,t. !'Ill lluU~t:--1-UGl;J William H. Fitzgerald ....... Bllsiness Manager Dt.·lta l\'IJ~ilon I lou:::~.·- -4-7~•~:! John D. Anderson ............ Managing Editor P:-;i l'pRilon HOU>'e-·1-3710 Albert H. f'lt Pvenson .............. Sports Editor Psi llpsilon House-4-8710 Robert C. North .................. News Editar IJ,.Ita. Upsilon Hou~e-4·792:l Wallace T. Foote .............•. Feature Editor Alpha Ddta l'hi llou;e-4-~72~ Junior Board ASSOCIATE EDITORS Milton Bedell Richard Passenger Ralph Cohen Richard Snyder Fenton Gage Norman Stewart J. Bundgus R. Doig W. Dean Carlton Garrison Sophomore Boanl Assistant Editors H. Enzer H. Hartmann R. Ferguson M:. Muroff C. Honikel C. Trahman Issue Editor ............... Van Trumbull Assistant Issue Editors Albert Stevenson John Anderson Tueaday, May 3, 1.935 TO THE PROM-TROTTERS Once a year Union College forgets for the moment that it is an institution of leaming, and devotes all its energjes to the lighter things of life. Of course, by this statement we do not mean that Union students study hard all the rest of the year, but at Prom THE CONCORDIENSIS, FR!DAY, MAY 3, 1935 :~!~ :~:~ ~;~P ~nd ci;rcumstance,. it has ·.•lr.;;;;.-=======oi=i-==========n= ] •·,.!;; .. A;;;;;;;R;;;;;O=U;;;;;;N;;;;;D=T-H;;;;;E=W=o;;;;;R;;;.:;·;;;;;LD~~ The charge against the council was di- • . ~ ~~ By RICHARD SNYDER . rected chiefly toward its scheme of organiza- tion. The attackers maintained, with -strong- support from a large portion of the .student body, that the council organization was un- democratic, and that it should be reorganized with a system of direct elections. Do not think for a minute that because the opposition failed to push through their sug- gested reforms it is smooth sailing for the council from 110\V on. The compromise pro- posal that was adopted shows only that a mujori ty of the stude.nt body are willing to give the council another chance to make good with substantially the same type of org·ani- We had an awfully good title all picked out, but the moralists for- bade it, which upsets us no end. And so we start off with space of our own and a smug feeling. * * * read foreign l!!inguages. Well this Depsite the o.ptimistic note sound- psychologist says that i-f you want; ed in President Roosevelt's speech to be healthy mentally you should last Sunday )light, the an-nt1al re- have ·change of employment--· port of the Brookings institute em- ~houldn't do the same thing aU the phatica:lly states th!lit the NRA has time -see? actually hindered the normal pro- Dr. Fox-It's complicated, I con- cesses of recovery. The l'eport j'ess. But you make it very lucid. flatly denies the claim that 3,000,000 Although it's a:n old iuea we lltill · h b t b 1 t k Jean-Yeah, I think so, too. Well, men ave een pu ac' o war . think it's a good one and so we've o th t th · d' I want to change J'obs with you! n e con rary, · e survey 1n !- arranged fot· a series of Impossible, t th t th h. b 1 · Dr. Fox--My dear Miss Harlow! ca es a ere as . een a os;; m Interviews to take pl'ace in -the fol- 1 d d · tHe drop;; his eyglall~es in horror.> emp oyment an even a 'ecreu';\ 111 lowing order. t 1 . Jean-(sitti-ng on his lap) Aw, aggrega e rea wages. 1. Dr. Fox and Jean Harlow. now Pr·exy you want to be men \' • * ' · ' · - On the 2688 birthday of Rome, 2. Phil Smith anu Aimee Semple -ta-lly healthy, don't you, and I'm Mussolini addressed a large <;rowd MacPher.;on. sure you want me to be that way, of B'asci:;ts and warned the llaiian 3. Mrs. Sayre and Max Baer. toaD! b d people that there was a \hal d · r. Fox- ·t rising a t·uptly an ' period\ ahead for Italy which 4. Dt·. Ligon and 'The DPvil. :dropping her on the floor) Why, would necessitate the full use of . Jean-! mean, Miss Harlow--1--uh * * * · __ -I'm nat at all fitted to carry on all resources including man-power. • k th 11 . s t t Many were puzzled as to what the Purely incidentally we think we your wor and wi a re pee 0 Premier migH have reterence to. ought to include thill little epistle. you, I don't think you're exactly It is communly thought that the Dear Faculty, adapted to do mine, either·. \carryi-ng- out of pre-determined zation. \Ve are terribly grateful for your J~d>ln--Why, Pexy, whoda though.; aims\ is connected with the Ethio- existerice. First, you supply us with yTou turn out an old meany · .pian situation which has already The opposition in the first place did not 1 . f t' d d hat's just the point. You've gotta taken 3·0,000 tr·oops out of Italy. genera m orma 10n, an • secon • have complete change, see? , .. • • spring from an abstract idea of a better form you are excruciatingly funny. Dr. Fox-I see too much, all ready For some curious reason the f t T•t f d t 1 There's something funny about any- 0 governmen • ! was more un amen a Jean-Why, Prexy!! Costigan-Wagner bill, aimed at re- one in the teaching profession; we D • L th' than that. Somehow students came to think plan to enter it ourself. According- b . 1 rd. Fo~--you re insane. · eave rs moving lynching in th.e south, i.;; · ur ing. opposed by southE'rn senators. I d . · · 1, • ht ly, since we've got to fil-l this space: J 8 b that the Cou \Cl. was ·not omg ItS JOu rig . 11 , ean- o you're gonna e nasty, ._They seem resigned to filibusteri-ng •• every week, with malice toward a h ? w 11 k h h h , ' ey. e ·. ta e t at. <S e t rows even though it means holding up Alld thl 's dt'scontent \·as c1·vstalr'zed 111 an equalb-' and with onlv such charity ,_ t f w h' gt t h' H · v.r J · · • \ a uus o as 1n on a · 1m. e the entire Roosevelt prom·am of re- as is absolutely 1·equired of us, we d k d h L' 1 .,. ' ''~'ttack On ·tile \\ay th·e COUnCJ'l \\as ·0Tga•l1l·zed UC ·s an t lOWS one Of IUCO n form. It is pointed out that the \ ,, ,, are going to take you for a ride in b k h Sh · k h · ' ac at · er. e pre s up a c arr south has made progress in cur-b- \ ~~h tl lot th\s pl·ocedur·e l's a logl'cal the fresh spring breezes. vVe ask d h t . t . k th d k •v e ter 01' 1 I · an e nes o PIC up e es ing such an uncivilized practice, ·for no forgiveness. You are C•Ur At this point Dean Ellery looks in and that such a bill would inter- way of remed\ing the caus-es for discontent victim.o only becuu~e c,·e:ybody d k' th 't t' · t .J an ta mg e s1 ua wn m a a fere with present efforts. is beside the question. Revolutions just work knows you and will appreciate our glance, with great presence of mind \' * • attacks. dashes off to the Chemistry Labor Paganism has broken out in that way. The American colonists didn't .re- With all sincerity, a tory, concocts a bomb, dashes back Germany. The latest evidence was volt against the British because they wanted F. H. and blows up the Administration a general tribal assembly of old Imaginary Interview No. 1 Building. Prexy describes a beau-, Teutons known as the Court of All- a republic, but because they were not satis- Dr. Fox is sitting at his desk in tiful arc and is caught on the thing. Thousands attended the fied \Vith the ways of the monarchy. his office at the head of the fhst second bounce. Jean is lost among, ceremonies. Wurttemburg min- flight of stairs in the Administra- Lhe clouds and later -found by three isters have requested full freedom The new Student Councilmen face the task tion Building. Enter <and how!) little angels who take her home to to attack the movement. The 1 Jean Harlow. show St. Peter. Peace is restored). meeting mentioned took place at of overcoming this fundamenta discontent Dr. Fox-(without looking upl F. H. Potsdam, and other like gathering 8 It is a hard job, because the discontent is ;-;~~ morning. What can I do for II ~ have been he!~ h! G;rmany. not sp.ecific and direct. Students do not Jean-(putting one foot on his h b B The new German submarine h ) T e Gra ag · building program has touched a know why they are unsatisfied with the way desk, ostensibly to tie a s oe lace Plenty, Prexy, plenty! sore spot with the English. It will the council has been functioning. The dis- Dr. Fox-Is that so? Well, en- J!,;;;============-.!1 be remembered that the Kaiser was II . hten me and I'll be glad to be of Pr1'ze day was qu1'te a day, but almost successful in his attempt to satisfaction has been shunted into the ques- g . · blockade Great Britain by sub- any possible assistance. an alarming lack of efficiency was marines. This latest Hitler move tion of organization, which analysis shows Jean- (sitLing on the de:;k, lean- in evidence. Joe Woolman, for in- l ·s not tile real 1 ·ssue. ing her elbow on his shoulders and stance, sat in the middle section wil\ pr~·~ably rGender any nEaval looking down at him seriously) when he could have saved many par ey e ween ermany and ng- If the new Stud-ent Council is to succeed Prexy, I've got a proposition to weary steps by staying right on the land a virtual impossibility. ' make to you. You know, I read a platform. However, at fifty per 0 it must seek out the causes of the basic dis- book once. walk it wasn't bad business at an. Weeks Best Editorial t t d d tl b d · th · • b Dr. Fox-Not really? All that remains now is for Dean con en an reme Y 1em Y omg eir JO Jean-Yeah. It was by a psycho- Garis to propose to the President GREEN GROW THE GRASSES! so well that all question of reorganization Iogist. some worthy senior who shall be. When you have had your hopes 'll d' t l d tl Dr. Fox-Indeed. I would have awarded the honor of being keeper for the coming of Spring con- Wl Ie a na Ura ea 1, thought it would be by an obstett i- of the jug. Preferably someone' tinually dashed to the ground by cian. whose folks w!U be in Alaslra dur- another blizzard, thus interrupting Jean-Huh? Oh, no. 1 don't ing graduation, and preferably not what might have been a really en- myself. ,. ., * viable burn, you suddenly discover that the prelude to summer has Elsewh:~eTi::hi~ .sRi~suTeEi~:~inltE·e: the COin- --~[- I We see by the bulletin that Art actually begun. This is precipitated PUNCTILIO Firth has for sale two automobiles, by repeating the request, old as the _ _ one assembled and running, and Vassar campus, to \Keep off the one \in the crate,'' so to speak. At Grass.\ l f th 'tt . t d t !!;============;;;;!! fifteen bucks how can you lose. At first you unconsciously follow pete report 0 e COinml ee appom e · 0 There was a time, if you 1 emem- The car is like twins-there are two the herd and tread the solid pave- weekend, books and leSS{)llS are forgotten investigate the possibility of making and en- ber it, when the Mountebanks were of everything. Nice to take the girl ment, but gradually your individ- f . h' in the habit of using gullible frPsh- to Prom in. Plenty of thrills, full: uality gets the better of you, and for•cing rules to govern ratermty l'US mg. men to portray the parts of females of rhythm, and thoroughly air con- you look longingly at green lawns. more completely than at any other time. Prom weekend is for us students a wei- Th 'tt ..+ th t th' in the campus productions. How- ditioned. Aesthetically, you- have been taught e COffillll ee repOI ~s a no Ing can ever, no matter how slightly built \' \ * beauty i.;; important for the exp~tn- 1 h · rt' f be done about regulating entertainment and the freshmen were, thelr feet were What obccomes of Concordy edit- sion of the soul; intellectually, you come inter ude between t e mam po 1011 o h d . h. k always too large for the esthetic ors? They're all absorbed by the. have been exhorted not to be one ' k d th f' I h f pledging of fres men . Ul'lllg rus mg wee tastes of the spectators. Columr.- great mill of the Schenectady press. of the mob; practically, you ha.ve o~r years wor . an. e ma rus o cram- Although realizing the grave dangers both ists in the Concordy made dispar- Take our old pal Clem-now the been told comfort is to be desired· f r nat 0 \Ve put that un f' aging remarks concerning the vast· largest cub reporter in the State. mathematically, you have learned mmg O exam! 1 ns. - to the freshmen and to th-e fraternities 0 differences ·between the female He covers Scotia, the Mohawk that a straight line is the shortest finished term paper (due next week) at the the present system of cut-throat competitive figure and that of the male no mat- waterfront, and writes headlines. distance between two points; and ter how well padded. We can just see him wandering healthfully you have discovered bottom of the drawer and send our stiff rushing, the committee recommends main- The most frequent remedy sug- around with a press ticket In his that shady trees prevent sunstroke. t · ' d · d' 'd 1' t'l th t' ' te·' fo1 n1ascul t1'ng t''e shov.s hat and that little package of eggs· Then, last bu·t not least, man (and Shl .rts to the cleanet·s. \~'e n.ut our fr·es·hmat1 ammg rmn:te m lVl ua tsm un 1 e tme geB \ · \ a '· · · d h' •v ~-' ~~ was that Skidmore cooperate In un er IS arm. woman) is not completely altruistic brothers to work, waxing floors, washing windows, and trimming the shrubbery. We when dormitories can be built for all the supplying the female element Thin \' • • and a small item of self defense freshmen, and deferred rushing can be in- would have been quite easy by 'This is just a little personal touch' enters the picture. You decide virtue of previous experience. on a touchy subject. We think it strolling on an emerald sward en- stituted. However, difficulties in thP way of wru; rather unethical for the book- joying the shade of leafy tre~s, Is put On OUr best manners and polish and €X- adequate rehearsals were cncount- ers of Dorsey Bros. to send them to far more to be de~:>ired than fever- A more flagrant example of buck-passing ered and life went on. the Police Ball in Troy on a date ishly dodging bicycles on hard hot purgate our conversation. can scarcely be given. The report implies This year came the millenium, so close to the Union Prom, where pavement. · tl h d lad'e f 0 th t they really get paid. Ballroom Then begins the long struggle be~ Even the season seems to conspire to make that all the evils of laissez faire rushing sys- tl:~~gthe ab~ards 1 o: t~e ~~che:se~~~ operators will not stand for such a twe~n duty and rationalization, You t lt f th 1 k f d t h ' th t Att d t t t thing, but evidently college boys decide to go about the matter 1 ·n a Prom time especiallv si211ifi\\llt. The lawns em resu rom . e ac o a equa e ousmg ea re. en ance a ryou s J ~ \\' went up and everyone was happy. are anybody's meat. Open season scientific method· that would re~ are flourishing, the tall old elms proudly dis- facilities for the freshmen. It assumes that That is, until Twelfth Night came comes every spring, as it were, and ceive the approbation of even the • • when Union has dormitories for freshmen down the pike. If you recall the they always come 'back for more. most meticulous. You remember play their fresh verdure, and the sprmg ll h. h. . bl 'll b t t' play you remember that Viola ~·.f a~{)du~~oeu trheearlley'scanno't lpa 1 yvn· 1 .atgda 0 inwsnt tfheraatblae cfountry atmospherye is pre~ . • . , a er rus mg pro ems Wl e au oma lC- spends a good part of her time J or a campus. ou also flowers m Captam Jackson s Garden have ally solved. U foists all the blame upon the masquerading as a youn.c; man. to anything. Rut there it is. .;ealize that the quantity of grass And that it rubbed, for here instead • \ \' Is not monopolized by a small group done it again. Whether it is smiling in the donnitory question rather than where it be- of having- to use men for women, Speaking of our little predictions, of business men nor is it distributed sunshine, or ''eiled in the slant!'ng raill, tile lmHr8: on the obstinacy and selfishlless of n woman wns trying to play man. there's Benny Goodman at the !n careful doses by an expeliment~ • ~ Don't misapprehend me! Skidmore Prom. Once, you may mg N. R. A. Grass above all things the camn.us is beautiful at Pxorn time. the fraternities. remember, we listed him as the up proves the old adage that the \best ¥ * * * and coming band of America. Any- things in life are free,\ and abun~ All these preparations are for you, our The attitude of the fraternities is the real one at that dance will bear out the dant. However, you make up your f h . b President Fox in five months as prediction. Led .by the greatest ~ind that Y?U must be more prac- guests. We are anxious to please you, and cause 0 • rus mg a uses. Each group wants pre~idPnt of the coli has made clarinetist in the world, and com- bcal, and might even save the col~ 'II d th' t k . 't to continue the gyp system so that next year ninl'ty fiw \peerh~;<; in seven ~:~,t<'s posed of men who are knowledged lege some money in these difficult We Wl 0 every mg 0 ma e your VlSl an th d tl . \L t , th and has invitations to speak in masters in their line, that band times. Pavement must be mixed as . . ey can 0 1e gyppmg. as year, ey mo~t of the r~\t. All of his \peech('p will next year be tops. Now we can cement in expensive machines and enjoyable one. We hope you are as glad to say, \the Sigs (or the Kaps, or the Betas haw hl'en u•crl as bases for edit- safely take a shot at the Dorsey must be laid down by wage-de- como to Prom as we are to Nothing more can be said. dance! have you here. On with the TO THE NEW STUDENT COUNCIL ' orials in onr> plnre or another. Bros. Equally good, plus Kay manding labor. On the ()ther hand, or any Other) stole so-and-so after we had Weber and Bo1b Cro.sby, that -band grass grew centuries before the In· fed him for three days and practically put • • * sr.ould be America's foremost broad- dustrial Revolution brought with it cast within a season. Non believ- the invention of sidewalks, and is a pin on him. Next year we're due for some The million dollar Jean Harlow ers can consult Decca and Bruns- one of the world's few natural re- luck. Maybe we'll get back at them.\ Hope pix, \Reckle is no good, stay wick records, or take in a radio sthouanrcei'nsctrheaatsemd.ust be Iitnited rather away from it. Despite publicity program. An unbeatable combina- springs eternal in fraternity bosoms. Mean- which has plastered the 'billings tion, and one which I believe we -Vassar Miscellany News for the last two months, the picture would not be able to ff d t while the abuses continue unchecked. is no good. Although Bill Powell year. · · · a or nex . .. .. Popula1· Regulation of rushing will be just as sorely When the Student Council was organized needed when freshmen dormitories are built three years ago to take over th.e duties of as it is now. Waiting for dormitories is just the Terrace Council, it wa.s hailed as a an excuse covering the absence of any desiPe panacea for all the many proLlems and com- on the part of the fraternities to cooperate. plaints of student government. The attitude If they do not get together soon and make did not last long. Through.out this term, their own rules, the administration will hav.e two years after the council was launched to do it for them. was put in the picture to give it that lightness so :popular since The Thin Man, the picture is no good. And Harlow is worse. Incidentally I know a most lovely jr-k(' about Miss Marlow visiting Lady Asquith and mispronounCing the latter's name of Margot to rhyme with varlet and being cor- rected by the Lady, who wanted it to rhyme with Harlow, but I can't tell it. J. B. D. And so to next issue. This ends GeeBee and Inchwell, and I hear that my identity will be revealed. You notice how careful I have been this year to avoid personalities. Last year several objects of my col- umnar affection threatened viol- enc~. -but the editor protected me. All Is lost now, so I'm off to New York until I hear whose wrath is aroused and can safely come back. Approximately one-fourth of the seniors at Yale contemplate being lawyers. Relic The oldest car on the campus at Ohio State University is a 1913 Ford wadster, with illumination provid- ed by kerosine lamps. Hostess The Hobart College de'bate club was recently entertained at lunch- eon at the White House, with Mrs. Roosevelt as hostess, GeeBee. ' -~ ] 1 A J 'l't ~ at ere Me ant ono aw La.r of ser I Ph ext an· cia tht scl Fr VI~ ice .aw \35 SCI ch: scl Se 1 ser re1 ]le :an for nll )ll': .To 101 su w R< .Ar ta1 Fe wl pa -in: to ne of Rt fo de M R ta .pt gl of to Si pl E es a1 S< PI gi CE e< nt fc m al lbt c St p p g. ~ ( s e I '

re- ort rk. in wd ich of to. re- i:; up re- rb- in at a to pes by ow ns. nd tic is ou ed gs ur n· it is g b THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 3, 1935 Three Seventeen Men Elected 'Members of Student C : .1. · ounet; I . c·h IC /. M kP. D' A ·d mpres:sive · · ::ape;: .. • eremonte:s , ar , r1ze · ay . ·. war; s ----------~------------------~----------------~------~--------------------- ~ TwentyStudentsHonoredAt C(JmmencementSpeaker Announced New :Council Is First to be Annual Prize Day Exercises.· Elected Under New System ~-------------~---------------- IJr. Fox P~·esents Awards In Chapel Ceremony Held Wednesday AU Classes Repr·esented 'l'h.irteen Seniors, O~te Junior, Six Sophomores and One •Fr~hmail Honored Tw.enty students received prizes at the fourth annual Prize Day Ex- ercises held Wednesday in the Memorial Chapel. Thitteen seniors, one junior, five sophomo1·es, and one freshman won the twenty-six awards .given for outstanding scho- Larship and excellence in a variety of fields. The awar-ds were pre- sen ted by Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox. Dr. Peter I. Wold, Professor Of Physics, was guest speaker at the exercises which ·began at 10 o'clock and continued through the third class. period, which was omitted for the occasion. Awards Listed 'Predestination Is Dead' Says Wold Universe Not Like Maehine But Plastic, Changeable, Declares Physicist \No part of the universe, Includ- ing mankind, need any longer be looked upon as sul;lject to the laws of determinism. Predestination Is· dead. The universe is not to be lo.oked .upon as a mere engine .that runs lilte a clock.\ WHh these words, Dr. Peter 'I. Wold, professor of physics answer- ed the question of man and h.is progress at the annual Prize Day exercises last Wednesday morning in the Memorial Chapel. Relmmanlze Science Seven Seniors Are :·Eight ~re Seniors Five . · • . Jumors and Four Tap.ped for Council Sophomores Stevenson, Rrull, Milano, Wal- dron, Little, Griswold, Trum• bull in Honorary So~iety Climaxing the picturesque Mov- ing Up Day exercises in the :Mem- orial Chapel, this ·!llOrning, seven All Athletes But One l{rull, Griswold, North, FiQre, Milano. Bastedo, Delack, And Waldron Named memben; of the cla.:;::; of 1936 were The fit·st to become council merh- \tapped\ for next year',; Terrace. bers under· the new plan ·Of nomi- Courictl. .As the present junior. nation and apportionment of repre- cld:>.:; f•h•u subduedly around the ::;entative.:;, 'l7 men were clw::;en to chapel, the pre::;eut Council chose .repr·esent their respective cl~sses at . Albert Stevenmn, Charle::; Krull, the elections ye::;terday in the Me- Joseph Milano, Van Antwer.p Wal-. moria! Chapel. dron, Philip- Little III., Guy Gr·i;;-, The new senior board of eight wold and Van Vechtt:n Trumbull a::; men is made up of Charle::; Krull, their successors. Guy Griswold, Robert C. North, Jo-· seph Milano, Edward Bastedo, Bur- Prominent on Camplls · ton Delack, Van Antwerp Waldron Beginning his address Dr. Wold The work done by the new mem- and ·Michael Flore. criticised the belief that the so-call- ber::; make:; in itllelf an almost co.m- The five junior representatives are ed \scientific method\ is one which plete li.:;t ..,f college extra-curricuiJ.r Jame>; Q, Doyle, Robert Evere::;t, has been carried on in an imperson- activities Six are athletes, but :Donald u. Liffiton, Frank B. Gat- a! way, independent of the observer, they combine with their ~t-orts abil- chell, and John K. Sloatman. Sopho- as though man were not present in ities work in many other fields. more class members are Frederick The complete list of prizes and the universe. The attempt has Albe):'t Stevenson, present sports B. Hawley, jr., Vincent Smith, Grant scholarships awarded follows.: been to dehumanize science, and it editor of 'rhe Concordiensis, is Smith and .John Wold. Frank Bailey Cup, for the senior has lead to marked success. Bllt catcher for the varsity baseball Charles Kr]..lll, a member of Beta who ·nas rendered the greatest serv- of late the question has been ari&- team. Naamed consistently on the Theta. Pi ami Eta Kappa Nu and ~c;a:~e~~~o~~~~:;~.i~~fdro~ei~: ~~g ~~~e~n~u~o~~isi~!~st~~;~.v~ Pse~~;~s~;:tr f~~ ~~ ~~f~~rs~~P!~ :~;~tsi~~n~o~~~1'rb~~~\j:s c~~~~i:d ·s 5 , of Schenectady. tions may not actually fail to re- of the American Society of Civil for the Tenace Council this morn- Josephine Daggett prize, for the present reality; whether in spite ()f Engineers. Stevenson has also ing. senior excelling in conduct and us they do not rather merely re- played varsity a,nd freshman foot- Oaptain of Swimming character without respect to fleet ..,...ersonality, reflect the m. ind b 11 d d · h' h scll.olarship, awarded to Ralph D. -\\ a • an unng IS sop omore year Guy Griswold is a member of Phi S d '35 f s h t d of man. Is there not a danger, Ch..,·ri·es A. B\'ar·d For·emost Amer·I\can HI\stor·r\an And was secretary of the student body. Gamma Delta ami a resident of emera • 0 c enec a Y· then, that the dehumanizing pro- u \' H · b f P · U ·1 d Horatic G. Warner prize, for the · e 18 a mem er 0 ,; 1 PSI on an Coatesville, Pa. He won his class senior in the classical course who cess has gone so far and that it is Author, Named Honorary Chancellor·, To lives in Brooklyn. numerals in basketball, was captain time to rehumanize knowledge, ()r Ch 1 T_• 11 · t · 1 t f reaches t he highest standing in the Add ares =ru IS cap am-e ec o of the swimming .team as a juniot· science at least?\ G've Com 1 nencement r·ess r tb 11 1 · · h th t ]Jerformance of collegiate duties 1 oo a , P aymg Wit e eam and n.ow plays varsity baseball. :and also sustains the best character Dr. Wold enumerated several since his sophomore year. In ad- Robert North has been a mem- for ·moral rectitudes and deport- j)ther points in answering his ques- dition, he is now a member of thP ber of the council since his fresh- ment without regard to religious tion of mankind, and the first of Cbar-les A. Beard, the foremost national history since 1904, several track team. Rrull is affiliated with man year. A member of Delta Jl!'a.iltice or profession, awarded to these was that he could nj)t .see IUnerican historian, has been named in conjunction with his wife, Mary Beta Theta and Eta Keppa Nu, Upsilon and a resident of Walton, .Joseph A. Woolman '35, of Troy. why it should be assumed that the tb.e honorary chancellor of Union Ritter Beard. His more recent books national honorary electrical engi- he is news editor of The Con- William F. Allen Essay Prizes, human race had reached a static College for 1935, it was announced have been \best sellers,\ including neers' society, and is a resident of cordiensis and on the editorial board ior the illest senior essays on any condition. Quoting from Dr. Hrd· t()da.y by President Dixon Ryan Fox. \Rise of American Civilization.\ Lynbrook. of the Idol. :subject, awarded to Joseph A. licka of the Smithsonian Institute, Dr. Eeard succeeds Dr. Irving ~ng- Foremost Historian Joseph Milano, captain-elect of Joseph Milano, captain-elect of \\ool·man '35, of Troy·, John B. he said \Man is still as plastic in nuir, associate director· of the Gen- basket-ball has been a member of basketball, has b(len outstanding in \ b d d 1 d h c R h Dr. Beard has written penetrat- th t d t ·1 d 1 tt :Roraback '35, of Kinderhook; and o Y an m n as e ever was, et\al Electric ompany esearc e s u en counc1 an e · erman basketball, football and track win- .An drew Poggenpohl '35, of Schenec- probably more so; he is still strug- haboratory and Nobel prize winner lngly on international affairs in re- in football and basketball. A Sche- ning letters in all three. He be- tady, gling with environment, though con- iB..cllemi::;try. .As honorary chancel- cent months and has earned for nectady resident and member of longs to the Delta Upsilon fraternity. trolling it more a:nd more every br Dr_ Beard will deliver the prin- himself the position of being the Delta Upsilon, Milano was treas- Edward Bastedo is a member of Three Get Debate Honors day; and he still changes.\ cipal address at the 139th annual f 0 rem 0 s t historian writing in urer of his sophomore class. Sigma Chi and Eta Kappa Nu and Geo1•ge F. Allison-Wallac~ T. conunencement exercises which will A~erica. Van Antwerp Waldron, a member Jives in Hastings-on-Hudson. He Fo<>te prizes for the three students Can Control Environment take place on June 10. Born near Kingstown, Indiana, of Alpha Delta Phi, has played has been active on the freshman wh.o have contributed most to the Concluding his address, Dr. Wold 47 tll Honoraa:y Chancellor Dr. Beard attended De Pauw Uni- both varsity basketball and foot- and varsity cross-country teams participation of Union College in explained that man was beginning Dr. l3eard is the 4 7.th honorary versity which later awarded him the ball. As a sophomore he was sec- Burton Delack, the only non-ath- intercollegiate debating, awarded to overcome various forces and was chancellor of Union which has -ap- honorary degree of LL.D. Dr. Beard retary of his class. Waldron lives lete on the council, is a member of to Richard C. Snyder '37, of Sche- begining to control some of his en- pointed .them annually since 1879. studied a year at Oxford, then a in Schenectady. Beta Theta Pi and a resident of nectady; Seymour A. Horowitz '35, vironment. \The rate of increase Tllls important honorary post at year at Cornell before attending Captain of Hockey Schenectady. He is business mana- of Schenectady; and Charles H. of control has been phenomenal .lJnion has been held by such world Columbia University from which he ger of the 1936 Garnet and presi- Reeves '37, of Schenectady. during the past 200 years and espec- .Jt:no-wn. figures as President William received his doctorate degree. Philip Little III., captain-elect of dent of the French Club. Daniel F. Pullman Classical prize, Ially during the past few decades, II:oward Taft, Chief Justice Charles After several years of writing, he hockey, is also affiliated with AI- Van Antwerp, the son of Dr. for the highest standing A. B. stu- chiefly due to what we call the &,va;ns Hughes, Elihu Root, Viscount began teaching at Columbia Uni- pha Delta Phi. He has been 3 Charles N. Waldron, secretary of dent, who i.st a member of the 'scientific method.' .As a result we JaiD.es Bryce, Dz·. Henry Fairfield versity as adjunct professor of member of the varsity football and the college, is a member of Alpha. Methodist Church, awarded to are living in a great epoch as great ().sborn,Sir Francis James Wylie, Jo- politics in 1907 and was· made full hockey squads since his sophomore Delta ·Phi. Secretary of his sopho- Ralph D. Semerad ' 35 • of Schenec- as that of Copernicus which led seph Choate and Walter Lippmann. professor in 1915. Two years later year, and is a resident of Minne- more class, he has won letters in tady. to the ovolrthrow of the geoc·entrlc · Dr. Beard has had a significant he resigned and became director of apolis. footb-all and basketball. Daniel ·F. Pullman Engineering outlook. And most important of pla~e In influencing the develop- the Training School for Public of G~~e G~~;~~/a~o~~ec~l a ;;;:mt?;~ Michael Flore, a member of Alpha .prize, for the highest standing .en- all, there has come and is corning .nent of soholars:hlp in histqry and Service in New York, for five years. Phi Dlllta and a resident of Sche- gineering student who is a member the idea that man himself has the the sC>clal sciences for he directed Then he became advisor to the In- bee~~!· a~ n;e~~iC:en~f 0 ~~o~:S~~:. nectady, won his numerals in fresh- of the Methodist Church, awarded ultimate a:bility to control for his the activities of both the American stitute of Municipal Research in man cross-country and now plays to Sidney A. Cole '35, of Ballston own ends many of the changes go- - d f th Tokyo and to V1\scount Goto, Japa- Pa., he sang in the glee club as a second base on the varsity baseball c B:istorical Association an o e freshman. He won his class num- .tea~ .,pa, ing on in this world. A..merican Political Science Associa- nese Minister of Home Affairs in 1 b k b 11 t · ··~ Wessel Ten Broeck Van Orden dd' 1923 s· 1923 D B d h d era s in · as -et a , was a cap am Doyle R~Iected· - · f th f hm excelling in ''Today, as a result of the work tion:. as president of each. In a 1- . mce r. ear as e- of swimming as a. junior. At pres- ~~ pr:r.ze. or · e r~tsi an d . 1 in the pure sciences, the following ·tion. he has contributed important voted himself principally -to writing ent, he is ace pitcher for the var- James Q. Doyle has been a. mem- English compos! 0 1 n an ta s~~Cl~ out of the desire to know, we live !xJo:ks on both American and inter- at his home in New Mliford, Conn. sity baseball squad. ber of the student council this year. essay on an ass gSnmWenlds~ 38 Jecf, in an epoch of two ideas; one is Van Vechten Trumbull, editor-in\ Affiliated with the Alpha Delta Phi awarded to JC>hn · 0 • 0 that of the posst'b1'l1'ty of cont1'nuous f t \.t Do I · \d t f . l o • d • J90(i chief of The Concordiens. is., is a.f- ra ernt y, y e 1s a res1 en o S<:.lle!).ecta.dy. b · th t f ~ 0 •· a z,e zn· · · · · S i \' 'ld M Robert M. Fuller Sophomore progress. The ot . et' rs a 0 J . \1lJ\'Jtftn ce ouncl . rfl n l ' filiated with the Delta Phi fratern- pr ngue I ass. prize, for the sophomore who has man's ability to control and de- 'II I \CI U ity. He has been recently elected Sloatman, also a member of the termine to a large extent his ovm 1931 to the Hale Club, for three years he student council, has served on the given the gl'eatest promise of a sudc- destiny, the idea of his own re- D l d b Stu ,lent rvounpz.lz\n has been in the choir and as a sophomore disciplinary COIIW!ittee cessful career in chemistry, awsa~ - sponsibility for the kind of external .IJ.,e p ace . y Ui . \_II \; . ' freshman was a member of the Stu- and was chosen secretary of the stu- ed to Philip B'. Moore ' 37 • of c e- world in which he lives.\ dent Council. dent body during the past year, He nectady. 0 • 1 1 ..,_ . t Ic May, 1906, the senior class or- Charles F. Garis suggested that the The outgoing members of the resides iu Norwood, Pa., and is a For ng na ...,.penmen s :~ar~.ized the Terrace Council. _ This group be enlarged to eleven men, Terrace Council and those they member of the Chi Psi fraternity. 'R01ber.t M. Fuller Senior prizes, Joseph L. Theisen '37, of Schenec- 'body -was formed for two pnmary 50 that others beside athletes might each Lapped. are: Charles Dain, Donald Li.ffiton, president c;>f his fo:r the seniors who have shown the tady. purposes, fil'st to give the under- find representation. This idea wa::; Stevenson; Austin M. Fox, Krull; freshman class, has been a member most a.bility in original experiment- The Charles Alexander Richmo11d 'g;ra<luates better leadership, and· put into practice but failed in its Duncan lMc.Nab, Milano; James of the cuoncil since his first year. al work, awarded to R01bert L. Slo- Prize in the Fine Arts, awarded to .second to be an honorary socie~y to intent, and the Terrace Council Moffet, Waldron; Joseph Rotunda, An outstanding halfl;lack on the lb()d; of Schenectady; and Daniel R. the student excelling in the fine ~eward those men whose services was still lop-sided in regard to re- Little; Ralph D. Semerad, Gris- varsity football te~, he is a mem· Conlon, of Schenectady. arts, awarded to Thornton W~ :would. classify them W3 campus presentation. wold; and William A. Waldron III., her of the Phi Delta fratern~ty and :Milton Hymes Sternfeld Philo- Whipple '35, of Binghampton. :l-eaders. The Idea was successful . Consequently a motion was put Trumbull. lives In Albany, S()]Jhical prize, for the senior whQ First Music Prizes for two years when it degenerated ·forward in a student body meeting Robert Everest was elected to the presents the ·best original essay in somewhat through the ·neglect of held in December 1931 that a com- council last year, and since haB philosophy, awarded Milton A. Ber- The Charles Alexander Ric~mond. ·:the class of 1 908. The three sue- mit tee be appointed by the Pres- also provided for representa tlon of served on the sophomore discipli· ger '35, of Poughkeepsie. .Prizes in Musical. App~eciatio?• ee~dlng classes did little to check ident of the Terrace Council, this· all the four classes. The members nary committee. He lives in QloV• .Andrew W. Archibald high schol- awarded for the first ~1me_ th1s :this d1lcline and when the class of committee to be composed of six were to act with the faculty dis- ersv'ille and is affiliated with the arship prize, for the senior who has year, to _the student e;Xcelhng m the 1911 , deciding .that some action was men, three from the Terrace Coun- .cipline committee on all matters of Delta Upsilon fraternity. attaine~ the bLghest st11nding in the •course m AppreciatiOn of Music, neeessary, went ahout the work of ell and three from the student body student discipline as well as in Frank Gatchell, outstanding .tackle dassical course, awarded to Joseph awarded _to Thornt~n W. Whip:]Jle restoring the Council to its forn~:er who were in no way connected with matters of rules, thus providing a on last season's football team, Is one A. Woolman, of Troy. ·•35, of Bmghamton, and Hugh H-. position as a body of leadership, the Terrace Council; and that this connecting link between the stu- of the leading singers of the glee Leonard Chester Jones Memorial iSharpe '37, of Valley Falls. ··it was found that the original con- · gtoup study the legislature of other dents and the faculty in the matter club and choir. prize, offer.ed as a memorial by the The Horowitz prize, awarded .to. stltution had been lost. lt was the colieges to obtain sufficient know!- of disciplinary m.easures. Another College Tennis Champ Schenectady branch of the Alliance the student who during the past t;as.k of this class then to dzaw .up a edge to draw up a workable plan feature of the proposed l•ody was Frederick B~ Hawley, jr., who won F:rancaise to the upperclassman in year has made the .best progress. ·iB:' new constitution, and with the help for the Union College Terrace that .it should be directly con- the college tennis champio~ship the ·modern language department :the course in Building Construction.: of Cbarles N. Waldron, a charter Council. The committee submitted trolled by the students. The method from George Stroebel, captain of With the best record of the year in .awarded to Sidney A. Cole '.:15, (Jf: !lle.mber this was accQmplished. a new constitution in February, of elections was designed to pre- the varsity team, last November, Fzench, awarded to Charles 4 Reid Ballston Spa. ':I'h.e Council was to consist of seven 1932 which rec?mmen.ded that t~e vent deals and to assure represent- alS() played on the freshman hockey '3fi, of Schenectady. A'\ert C. Ingham Prize, awarded: Ellen, chosen from the junior class' ;rerrac!'l. Council contmue onl~ m ation of varied and divergent in- team; Robert G. O'Neale prize, offered \\' · th b t by t'-e outgo 1 • 11 g members. . 1ts posthon as .. an honorary soCiety, terests. · Grant Smith of Schenectady ~ 'N 1 f ·to ·the senior who offers e es '\ t St d t 0 F b 23 1fr'>2 th t d t b t t d' ~\ by Mrs. .Anna M. 0 ea e o assigned sub- Up until the war the QounC!l. and that a new body, he . u en n e rnary , v<>. , e s u en een an ou s an mg player on .... a Cl!arleiilton, South Carolina, to the essay on one of ~ft'~ratul'l~ or ajst- :f~nctionild well, but after 1919, with ?ouncil, be instituted as a govern- body voted to adopt this new Stu- brilliant freshman basketball team. sturient in the divisi<Jn ·of language jects in ~nglish Andrew Po gen-' the increase in the size of the col, mg group.. This new idea ;was dent Governmertt Constitution. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi. and literature taking Latin as one 0 1 1 ·~~a~1~~h~~ectaoy. g :Ie~~. difficulties arose. It ::;oon be- p)anned to remedy the past failmgs The f<li'rnation of the Student Coun- J. Vincent Smith, also of Schenec. of his .majo~ languages who has :the P°Freli~o- H Smith pri2;e in History-,. cli.Dle evident that while. t.he elec- of the .Terrace Council ~nd the cil did. not mean, however, that the . tady, has played left end on the highest standing, .during his four for the\ ·b~st thesis -wrjtten .by t.lons wel'e tree from deals, t4e men mal,te-sh1ft system of tre!lbes with Terrace Council was to go 01,1t of freshman football team, earning his years at college, awarded to Joseph nlors takln special honor chosen, while they were leaders, the .faculty, Rules and disciplinary existence. It was to continue, and .class numerals. · A.. Woolmap, of Troy. se , 1 hi!tory awarded to -we not representative leaders, most, :rneas~res were no longer to • be s~ill does, as an honorary society, JohnS. Wolo, son of Professor P. James }Jepry Turnbull prize in com ses n \ h «lie them being star athletes, As a passed With the students haVing which was one of the prim;uy· pur- I. W.i>ld of Union, is a member Qf pllysics, for tiW sophomore who has. Rankine G. Hinman 35 • of Sc enec-- ;reP~ody to tb.is lilituatlon Dean: no voice In thlllr tormula.tlon. It poses bell.ind it~ formation in 1906. Ait>ha. Delta Phi, · e:xceJied Jn · ~ijy~!e$ 1 ll.Waiilie4 to tady,

Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRlDAY, MAY, 3, 19'35 Nine, Lacrossemen Here; ·TrackDlen Away At Rochester ~ ~ Heavy Hitting Red Raiders To Encounter Union Batmen ~-------------------------------- Colgate Team, 'Vith Eight Frosh Lacrossers Travel Veterans, One Soph · 1.,o Deerfield, Mass. Today Star, Play He1~e Few changes were made by Coach An ominouti dreudnou\ht in the, Fred \\'yatt in the lineup for the form of the Colgate Univ~rsity base-l freshman !across team which meets ball team :;teamed into Schenectady the Deerfield Academy ten today at thi::; morning to be the next op- Det'rfield. \Vith few men to choose ponent on the schedule for the var- from, since the ineligibility of sev· sity baseball team this afternoon on era! of the regulars, Coach Wyatt Alexander Field at 2:30 o'clocl{, The has been shif.ting his players in an Red Raiders come he1e with a le,;s effort to find a stronger combina- successful record than they had · tion for this afternoon's encounter. when they played the Dutchmen a The Deerfield team, which has year ago, although their team man been playing the Union freshmen for• man is recorded as being a annually and which competes stronger, smoother- running com- against the frosh squads of Har- bination than the 1934 nine, vard, Yale and Springfield, will at- Have Won Two Games 'The Colgate nine will go into the game with a season's record of two victories and a like number of de- tempt to wipe out the defeats which the yearlings handed them last year. Union won both games from Deer- field in 1934, by scores of 9-3. feats. They opened their 1935 season. Nott to Play Goalie with a smashing 20-5 victory over the Oswego Normal team, after Jack Nott, who warded off many theil· first scheduled game with of the Manhasset tries at the goal Lafayette was cancelled. Cornell last week despite the number that was the next to fall before the entered the net, will play at goa:!· mighty onslaught of the Maroon today. Ellis Carter will start at when Ed Hickey, No. 2 pitcher, point, with Vincent Smith at cover- hurled a three-hit, 5-3 victory fOl' point. Lew Laurenski, hefty- de- Ce>lgate over the Ithacans. Colgate fenseman, will start in his first then met more than their match in game at first defense. With him on a clever Holy C:voss nine which the outside will be Gerber. snagged a 9-1 victory from U1e Red Lenny Schultz will start at cen- Raiders. Two days later Colgate ter, while the attack positions will took a 7-6 licking from a stubborn be taken by Pat England and Cam- Brown University aggregation for marota. Art Lawrence and Howie their second loss. Thompson will take the outhome Eight Veterans The Red Raiders will come here with a team. of veterans, for with the exception of Pete Dashewski at first base, every man on the :;tarting team is a holdover from last year. Jack Dempsey, converted from a short-stop this year, will play third base and is the lead-off man in the batting order. Earl Larsen is the short-stop and folows Dempsey to the plate. Captain Steve Kuk, who wound up the season last year with a .430 batting average, will be seen in center field. Clary Anderson, for three years a varsity catcher, is rounding out his third year in the Maroon back-stopping po::;ition. He had a .450 'batting average, to lead his team-mates in this division last year, and he will bat in the cleanup position today. Marty McDonough is the second baseman who had a .375 batting average for 1934. The No. 6 man in the batting order is Dashewski, the only man not to face the Garnet last year. He had a .365 batting m:ernge with the frosh team last year, hitting a home run in every game for a total of six for the season. He replaces ex- Captain Squire Bridge at the initial sack. Dicit Offenhamer, the rightflelder, is another veteran who is a slugger of note. Leftfieid will be covered by Bart Amendola, the eighth man to face enemy hurlers in the batting order. Have Large Pitching Staff The pitching staff consists of three and four relief tossers. Num- ber 1 of the big three is Lefty Wright, who pitched Colgate to an 8-2 victory over the Dutchmen last year. Number Z man is Ed Hickey, while Ike Kern holds down position No. 3. Bob Schlude, George Fer- guson, Jack Fritts and Lee Alexan- der are the relief moundsmen. Colgate lost only four men from their 1934 squad. ''Red\ LaFlamme, ace hurler, went to the New York Yankees; Johnny Brooks, the cen- ter fielder, Dido Flaitz, the third baseman, and Captain Squire Bridge were also lost through graduation. There is, however, a wealth of ma- terial in eight experien.ced men to give the Red Raiders a powerful team, Semerad to Lead Off Captain Ralph Semerad will lead his team-mates into the battle from his center field post. He will be the lead-off man for Union and, al- though he has been in a batting slump, has picked up a little since the first game. Left field will un- doubtedly be covered by J i m Loomis, who with Ernie Brown the right fielder for today's game, holds the highest batting average so far this season. First base will be covered by the veteran, George Clark, who may see duty as a relief hurler. Mike Fiore, diminutive sec- ond baseman, who has shown great imp_rovement in his batting, will agam cover the keystone sac!;:, Bob Reed, who has been capably hold- ing down the position vocated by Chip Dain, will play short-stop. Thir'd base will probably be covered by Dave Cadwallader, who has been doing some timely hitting in the .past three games. and inhome posts. The lineup for Deerfield will be: Smith at goal, Mauri at point, J. Haigis at coverpoint, P. Haigis at second defense, Ward at first de- fellse, Chivers at center, Merriam at second attack, Fullat fir~t attack, Captain Black at outhome and Alex- ander at inhome. Slugging Right Fielder Ernie Brown, the only sopho· more on the baseball team, has been hitting the ball oonsist- ently, and now has the highest batting average on the squad. and will be looking for his third stmight. Stevenson, who has been clouting the ball at a lively rate this year, will agai11 doh the catch- er's paraphenalia and assume his backstopping position behind the plate. Union Has 3 Wins The Union team will go Into the game with three straight victories to its credit. Stevens Tech was subdued in the first game behind the clever hurling of Guy Griswold by a 4-3 count. Swarthmore was snowed under in the second contest by 11·4 in an eight-inning game pitched by George Clark and Jim Loomis. Griswold again assumed mound duties against Rochester and let the Yellow Jackets down with· six hits for a11 easy 14-3 conquest. The Union team will prove no easy mark for Colgate for the Dutchmen have greatly improved in their hitting and the fact that they are looking for revenge for that 8-to-2 defeat administered by the Red Raiders last year also enhances their chances for a victory. The probable line-up and batting order: UNION COLGATE Semerad, cf, Capt ...... Dempsey, 3b Fiore, 2b ................. Larsen, ss Griswold, p .......... Kuk, cf, Capt. Loomis, If . . . . . . . . . . . . Anderson, c The star battery of Guy Griswold in the pitcher's box and Al Steven- son catching will be in action against the Red Raiders today. Griswold has two victories and no defeats to his credit so far this year Brown, rf .......... McDonough, 2b Cadwallader, 3b . . . . Dashewski, 11> Stevenson, c . . . . . . ·Offenhamer, rf Reed, ss .............. Amendola, Jf G. Clark, 1b ............ Wright, p Baseball ··ll HITS and M·ISSES: •II s.. ~.ickmen To Battle Reputed (Winning Team Mentioned First) ~·P.:;;;=======;;;;;o;;==-~==~J. L vttl Q I T T d April 2~-Sigma Phi-Ro;;s, Psi l\psi-·' TRACKMEN SHOW uo\V\''R . 1 . e . ua re¥ .. earn . ·o ' ay l'on-Ddta Cl!i, l'hj D!!lla Thcttt-Delta. • •~ · · ' :1L 1 ' . Upsilon, Theta Delta Chi-Chi Psi. The excelient showing made by April 23-Sigma Phi-Phi Sigma Delta,· Coach Bill Ketz~ traclt and field Elelta Phi-Lambda Chi Alpha, Mirates-· Delta Chi; Phi !Jelta Theta-Theta xu. men againRt the reputedly powerful ;,;pstion, !toss-Chi l'si, ::llgma Cht-P8i. William~ 8quad last Saturday by 'l'psiion, Yandecars-Delta Upsilon, Phi: holding the Purple to a bare 10\~ Sigma Delta-Theta Delta Chi, Lambd'a point victe;ry ind.jcates that the C'hi AIDha-Phi Sigma KapiJa, Beta t 1 h ~'ileta Pi-Mirates, Kappa Sig-ma-Theta rae tmen s ould have another sea- ------------------~----~~~ Ne,tmen .to Oppose Purple Squad Here· Swarthmore Won: Five Out of Seven Games This Season ;:>;u Epsilon. son this• year. April 24-!'igma Pht-<'hi P•i• 'DPlta The imposing Rochester team Veteran ''rilliams Racketmell The homecoming .for the varsity Pht-1-'ht Uamma Delta, Btg-ma Ch1-. which will .be met tomorrow (after If :Delta Chi. · 1711 f d lacrosse team this afternoon wil'i AtJI·ii 2u-nutiti-Th.,ta Ddta Chi, prom) in the Kodal{ city is the one: be eate Garnet Last be a very warm one, with the col· Alpha Phi nella-Phi Sig-ma Kappa,, stumbling block left in the path of: Year by 8-1 Scot·e lege welcoming the victor.s over Beta Theta. PI-Psi Upsilon, .KaiJpa the Garnet runners and Weight· M. I. T. and the Swarthmore ten Sigma-Delta Upsilon. · throwers. We wish the trackmen' April 26-Lambtla Chi Alpha-Phi on the prom committee luck in· ready ta hand the Dutchmen op- Gn.mma Delta, Mirates-Sigma Chi, Van- This afternoon the Williams tennis position as formidable as that tlee•r:;-Theta 1\:u Ep:;ilou. . ·catching the 2.11 train out of Sche- · d 1· t h 8-1 which Hobart dished out two weeks nectady tomorrow morning. How- team returns to · up 1ca e · er drubbing of the Garnet racket ago. With seven of their game~ . ever, if Em Burton repeats his wJ'elders of 1934 WJ'th an array of already .played, t·he Little Quakers Horseshoes , spectacular jumping and record · · · · · b. reakine- vaulting of last week, if streng strokers in the fundamental have a good head start on Union, - shots they have h1\gh hopes of bear and will put an experienced squad ( Winning Team M~n· tioned First) Naguszewski keeps tossing the shot · · - '\' ing away the lau~eis on the Library Field. April 22-Beta Theta Pi-Theta. Delta: well over 40 feet . .and throwing the ' ,. · · Chi, Emerson-Larson-Sigma Chi, .Alpha: discuss 120 feet, and if those fleet- Kelleher Won Championship Sante Union Lineup Ph! D~lta-Mirates, Phi Sigma. Kappa~' foots, Hirst, Ross, and Neuman, Captained by Bob Kelleher, No. 1· Phi Stgma. Delta, Laut,enskt Bros.-' maintain their speed and endurance man, and conquerer of Al Winston, Coach Bill Harkness wiU .prob- Lambda Cht Alpha. · th · d th y 11 · k t A h , f 'd bl t th Pu ably use the same men this after- April 23 _Alpha Phi Delta-Theta. o~ e c1n ers, e .e ow Jac e s m erst s orm1 a e s ar, e . r- Delta. Chi, Beta Theta Pi-Sigma Chi,. wlll have more on their hands than, ple offers a veteran team which last noon that started against the Tech Phi Sigma Kappa-Lambda Chi .Alpha,. they can manage. year beat Amherst 6-3. Kelleher team last Saturday. Jack Smith, Laurenski Bros.-Delta Upsilon, JDmer- Hamilton and R. P. I. the two re- won the New England intercolleegi- Union's strong man on the ·at· sor:-Larson-Alpha. ~hi Delta, Sigm.a maining meets on the schedule ate tennis championship, and pos- tack, will again have his part to Pl?-:·Theta Delta Cht, Beta Theta. Pt- should not offer too much opposi- sesses a strong service and an un- play at out-home in today's game. Mllates. · t' Th B ff d Bl b. b t bl h d h H d Ken Tompkins or Crabb Thomas, R~~r~h!{;-I,It:~~e~s~~~L~'~b;;-ri~~({~.~ t~~~ of a~oututhe ~~me s~~ng:~ a~ J~~e~, !,-;:~a~~ ~~~:: No. ze p~i- both of whom have shown their Chi-Sigma Chi, Laurenski Bt!os.-Phi. last year's which the Dutchmen .tion, compose the best Purple tea:m. ability in the cage thus far, ·will be Sigma Kappa, Phi Gamma Delta- swamped by an overwhelming Swan, another veteran of three the choices for ·starter in the goalie ~:l.~bda Chi Alpha, Delta. Phi-Delta score. The Techmen are better years, will .oppose Moffett in the position. Joe Agius, husky football Upstl~n. than they were a year ago but they :third set of singles matches. These man, will take his place at the _.AprJI 25-Lambda Chi Alpha-Phi should not seriously threaten the three men present the best opposi- point position, while Captain Scot- Sigma Delta. Union tracksters t· th t b f d. f th ty McNab, one of the important April 26-Beta '11heta Pi-Psi Upsilon, · Ion a can e oun m any 0 e cogs in Union's impregnable de- Sigma Phi-Delta. Chi. A SLUGGING MATCH LIKELY smaU colleges of the East. How- f l k . ever Captain George Stroebel and ense ast wee , Wlll play at the There will ·be a real slugfest over Jack Moffett, when on their game, cover-pont berth. Intramural games originally on Alex.ander Field this afternoon if can give sterling performances. The outside defense will be made scheduled for various dates which. the last two ga:mes with Swarth- They will pair off with the No. 1 up of two expert sophomore stick- ·were postponed because of rain or more and Rochester are any indica- and 2 Williams players in the men, Dick Kennedy at first de- darkness have been changed as. tion of the Hill batting strength. doubles. fense and Don Liffiton at second follows: Colgate comes here with even a defense. Elliott Fraser, varsity Softball harder slugging team than they had Aus Fox at No. ~ Post man last year, and the only veteran last year when .the Maroon batmen Union's lineup will remain the filling one of the five center posi· Delta Phi-Alpha Phi Delta, May 9- clouted the ball all over the fJ'eld same as last week with a substitute tions, will be seen at center. Noon, Nott Field. Phi uamma llelta-P.hi Rtgma Kappa, in the last few innings to beat for Salad in sixth place and a possi- Four Attacl[ Men May 9-Noon, Nott Field. Union 8-2, for one of the two set- ble l'eplacement of Jerry Rosen, Hal Vandecar and Ken Mac- Beta Theta Pi-Sigma Chi, May 9- backs the Garnet suffered in the '3-1 who is ailing with an eye infection. Murray, both of whom hung up :'\oon, •Council Field. season. Aus Fox, at two, meets Jones, and KaJ>Pa Sigma-Vandecars. 1\!ay 9- Jerry Cohen will exchange shots four tallies last week, will play at 1\:oon, Council Field. --ASH with Swan of Willl\ams 1 .n the thi'rd the second and first attack: posi- Aipha Phi Delta-Phi Gamma Delta, ~atch. tions. Smith and Hugo Bergman, l\lay 10-Noon, Nott Field. ,., Phi Delta Theta-Vandecars, J\.!ay 10- AI•ril 26, Noon-Delta Phi-Phi Gamma Seven encounters remain aftP.r to-: veteran attack men, will talte theil• Noon, Nott Field. Delta. day. C. C. N. Y. and Swarthmore places at the out-home and in-home Ross\-Chi Psi, May 10-Noon, Counril April 2V, Evening-Alpha. Phi Delta- positions, Field. D\lt\' Chi. will be met next week. Both these The Swarthmore ten, which has Ps~~~~~~lt~~~J~ma Chi, May 10-Noon, teams have good squads, especially registered five wins thus .far out Alpha Phi Delta-Phi Gamma Delta, League Standings ~1 fo~r_nert who d;f~ated t s;ro~g of seven starts, will put a team l\lay 10-Evening, :\fott Field. 0 urn Ia eam. e res 0 t e composed mainly of veterans on Delta Vpsilon-Vanrleears, May 10- Softball schedule should be polished off in the field, c. C. N. Y. was one of B\·ening, Nott Field. NO\'THERN fine order against Colgate, Hamil- the teams taken over by the Little 'Pheta Delta Chi-Phi Sigma Delta, .. ~ ton R P I Vermont and M\dd' l\lay 10-Ev<>ning, coun<'il Fieltl. Won I,ost ' ' • • ., ' 1 ,c- Quakers, in a free scoring battle Phi Sigma Kappa-Lambda Chi .AIJ>lJa, ·Sigma Phi ................. 4 0 bury. 19 to 13. The games which have :\lay 10-Eveuing, Council Field. Ho\\ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .......... 2 2 been played by the Pennsylvanians, Il<\ta Theta I'i-~l:irntes, :\lay 13-Noon, Phi Sigma Delta .... , ....... 2 G T lost or won show that the attacking :'\ott Fielrl. Th~tn Delta Chi ............. 1 3 ets hree Base Hit Chi l':;i ..................... 1 a end of the team is in top condition. Horseshoes SOUTHERN Lehigh was downed 19 to 3, St. Chi PRi-Sigma Phi, ltay 7-Noon. P~i L\\J1~ilot1 I>dtu. Chi, !\lay 7-Xonn. Tht:ta :-.=u 1-;p:..;ilnu, :l!ay 7-Xuou. Phi R:grna Delta-Delta l:pHiluu, :.\Tay 7-Noon. rhi P~i-PAI l·pslion. May 7-E\·ening. Phi Sigma Delta-Delta Phi, May 7 -Eveuing, Alpha Phi Delta--Sigma Phi, May 7 -Evening. Theta Delta Chi-Emerson I.arAon, l\lay 7-E:vening. De>ta Theta Pi-Chi Psi, Mar R-:'oJoon. i'si J.:pgilon-:.\Urates, May 8-Noon. Phi Sigma Kappa-Th<\ta Nu Epsilon, :\fay R-Noon. Sigma Phi-Mirates, May 8-Noon Phi Sigma Delta-Laurenslri, May 8 -Noon. Beta Theta Pi-Alpha Phi Delta, May 9-Noon. !'hi Sigma Kappa-Delta Upsilon, Cllny 9-Noon. Sigma Chi-Psi Upsilon, May 9-Noon. gmerson-Larson-Mirat<'s, May 9- Noon. Beta 'rhet.:t Pi-Delta Chi, May 10- Noon. Phi Sigma Kappa-Phi Gamma Delta, May 10-Noon. Larnbda Chi Alpha-Theta Nu Epsilon, ;v1ay 10-Noon. Sigma Chi-Mirates, May 10-No(}n. Phi Gamm11, Delta-Phi Sigma Delta, :VI'.ay tO-Evening. Chi Psi-Mirates, May tO-Evening. Phi Delta Theta has withdrawn from the competition. Their matches are de- Pia red forfeited. The results of the fo~lowing horseshoe game~ are unreported' to the Director's office. Information concerning them is urgently re- quested. Won lleita Phi ................... :: I J:lmhda t •hi .\lpha .......... a Alpha !'hi Delta ............. 1 \hi lJ.amma _Delta ........... n I h1 S1gma h.appa 0 0 0 • 0 • 0 0 • 0 0 o EASTERN ·won Beta Thetn Pi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Mil·ates ............. , ....... 3 Sigma Chi ............ , , . , . , 2 Psi Upsilon ... , ..... , , ... , .. 1 Delta Chi ................ , .. o WESTERN Won Phi Delta T.heta . , ....... , .. 3 VandeC'ars 0 •••••• 0 0. 0 ••• 0 0 •• ' 1 Kappa Sigma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Delta. Upsilon ............ , .. 1 Theta Nu Epsilon , ....... , .. u Horseshoes NATIONAL Won Reta Theta Pi .... , , .. , , , , .... G Chi Psi ..... , .. , .... , . . . . . . . 1 Alpha Phi Delta .. , . , .... , .. 2 Sigma. Phi ........ , ... , . , ... 2 Emerson .. Larson ............. 3 Psi Upsilon ...... , , ..... , . , . 1 Delta Chi .......... , ........ 2 Sigma Chi ................... 1 T'heta Delta Chi ............ 1 ~iil·ates ..................... 0 AMERICAN Won Laurenski Bros ........ , ..... 5 Phi Sigma Kappa . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Phi Gamma Lelta ........... 2 Delta. Phi ............ , .. , . , , 1 Lambda Chi Alpha , , .. , , . , . 1 Theta. Nu Epsilon . . . . . . . . . . . o Phi Delta Theta . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Phi Sigma Delta ....... , . . . 0 Delta Upsilon ............. , . 0 First String Garnet Battery GUY GRISWOLD and AL STEVENSON J,ost u 1 1 2 a I.oRt 0 1 1 3 4 I,ost 0 0 I 3 4 I.ost 0 () I 1 2 1 2 4 5 3 Lost 0 •. I 1 1 3 0 2 2 3 Jim Loomis hit his batting stride last weekend, clouting a triple with three men on base as well as making tlll'ee singles. BATTING AVERAGES of the Varsity Baseball Players (3 games) Name, Position AB H PC Ernie Brown, lb, rf .. 12 6 .500 Jim Loomis, lf, p . , . 13 6 .462 AI Stevenson, c ..... 11 4 .364 Mike Fiore, 2b ...... 14 5 .357 Dave Cadwallader, 3b 9 3 .333 Guy Griswold, p . . . . . 8 2 .250 Ralph Semerad, cf ... 10 2 .200 Bob Reed, ss ........ 8 1 .125 George Clark, 1b, p .. 7 0 .000 Bill Brandow, 2b . . . 2 0 .000 Ray Denton, c .... , .. 1 0 .000 Harry Marra, ss . . . . . 1 0 .000 Paul Campbell, rf .... 1 0 .000 Lloyd Clarlt, rf ...... 0 0 .000 Doug Lambeth, If, p . 0 0 .000 Totals , .. , ......... 97 29 .299 (avg,) Two-base hits-Stevenson (2); Brown (2) ; Griswold. Three-base hits-Brown (2); Semerad; Stevenson; Loomis. ATHLETIC NOTICE Members of the class of 1938 who wish to become candidate managers of fall sports next September should report to the director of athletics as soon as possible, Johns and Rutgers won by close, high scores from the Swarthmore team. From such indication~, it seems that Union's defense will have a busy day, while the attack will have the op,Portunity to dup- licate the scoring feats of their con- temporaries. 200 Potmd Goalie Coach Blake will probabiy start Carl Jenter, 200-pound ~terling de- fenseman, in the goalie's eage, The fine work of Jenter, who is playing his first year with the :varsity, has been one of the outstanding feat- ures of the Pennsylvania ten. Preston Roche, a newcomer to the varsity, will fill the point post, while his running mate will be Morrissett, a sophomore. Tay-lor, a sophomore who is replacing one of the regulars this year, will prob- ably start at first defense. Jim Mc- Cormack, veteran for three yea1·s, will run with Taylor in the second defense place. At center will be Sam Kalkstei11, one of the leading scorers on the team. A sophomore named Barney- Price, who has been popping goals as often as the first-rated men on the squad, will play at second at- tack. Perkins or Dick Post will play at the first attack. Laird Lichenwalner, who is almost as . hard as his name and one of the leading scorers, will play out-home today. Captain Bob Lewis, heady- and high scoring offensive player will fill the in-home position. Schedule of Athletic Events Baseball-Colgate on Alexander Field at 2:30 p. m. Tennis--Williams here at 2:30 p.m. Lacrosse-Swarthmore on Library Field at 4:00 p. m, Track-Rochester at Rochester tomorrow morning, Frosh Lacrosse-Deerfield Deerfield, Mass., today. GRADUATION FEE at All Seniors are reminded that the $15.00 Graduation Fee, which !ncludes the cost of the diploma, 1s due and should be paid on · Tuesday, May 7th, at the Comp- troller's Office. Any fee paid after the above date will be sub- ject to the usual fi11e for late payment. The Comptroller's Office will be open for the collection of fees Tuesday, May 7th, from 9-11 :45 A. M. and from 1-4:45 P. M. J{o~ 1 Th sity Kod1 aftel ter 1 the The exce caus trou Tl flnd eve11 Will is d carr HOVI char brig avai is i com ever She! Chu perf Hir< 10.4 Ketl Kru side spor shot ing Gler Bot! finis tive: will will tion Jl ter 440 is e to l the· max the gro1 run gro1 left sec< stac der and mOl 880 Bill Ro; bot! intE den ing WOI hap the a tJ :E aga the the str< has mil Bil sha tro· Mil the Ma 'I fat· thi: Bll cid to me fai of· I Kr tea 01 • • • • • • II II • • II II II • • • • • • II I I • I I I - I

Four THE CONCORDIE:\'SIS, FR]DAY, 1\IAY 3, 1935 Nine, Lac:rossemen Here; Trackmen Away At Rochester - ,•· Heavy Hitting Red Raiders ';~mrun, :~:~;\~:. am_<l_~IS~EsJ[S~ic~men To Battle Reputed To Encounter UnioxlBatmen:\:::~!:·;'-·'1'::.~:·. ~~:~~i,}:·.;:-..·i:'·\·~:;l···!t..; ~:~::\~.~~-~-~~:~~ ~~:.~:~~~~ .. H~~~~.:;·.c\JLittj,i_e Qualier Team Today .\;q,:.::; ~hrl .. l I',J~: l·'!tt~~' 11 · 1 1 1 'lr.a, Co:u·h 1:111 l~t·lz' t!at'l~, at:d fit·l:l~ - ~ ---- ( 'ol)wte Tt.·<un, 'With Eig-ht Yett.'t·ans. One So!>h Stm·. Play Here 1•• lt l I'll ) ... :l'oll••:.t { ll .\IJ•Il.l, \lll.lft'\~ ' } { f Jl N 0 I 1 ~ 0 Frosh L:u.-ro-::-;l'l'S 'fl'aYel i '• ' ( ,., l·'l: I'· 't ( '1'1>· 1 '~''\ 1 ,_ \'' Ill.''\ ag·ut~o-t l ,,. l\<'jl1lt•··. l.\ !><>\\\<'! l1 etm·e·n to :ppos£0 Swarthmore \\on FtYC ,,_ ...... 1:·· <'•!.: 1'-1. \'\\\'·' <'li.-1', .. \\tlli.!.!ll• \I'\\l It-t :-< •. t1t.td:O)' by; ' . ! ~I '1 1 To i k~TI ield, .:\lass, 'l'odav 'l :· .. I \ '1.•!• '·\ '.j '• ·' I t i\ J .. J1, I 'II. I llt>ldlllg t tit• I 'Ill\ jilt• l<• a h·,,( (·' 111 1 'p l s d H I Out oi SeveR (wamcs .,. :\.~\\'·''·· .. ·.:~\·\-~-~·\''·''.·.~t t.\\·~·~·•lp\i\' \'il-ttry iwti•·a: .. ·,.· that uwl ttrn·e qu~ ereJ Tl' ~ . ,' .. :\ .. \t,'_ 11 •·t·l>: •• \'\· 1 . h:d:i'·':· .. 1 \:·' ttadtlll<\ll :-h<>ult! han• annlhPl\H':t·l ·.P'• 4-Q: liS >~C3S0l1 I \ ·t I . \1 'I. t t ... h..tt•ll.l :-..;.~lll.t· 1 lll ..• I -\\\ •• ll •. l.·it· b~ t\ .tl h 1=\•1 l:i'\ l. '· ;-.Ill! th1=-- ~·t·:tr. I ---- .\n \\·\·' ,,_ ,, 1 , ... -t .. · \· :~.. :-·,., \\\· ·'' ·i:· 1.1. ,,, : ·t t!:·: · 1 ' · · :·: \'\•·.I P.::: ''\' l·'<l, 1 '• 1 '· 1 Th\ impo>in~ l~r)('h<·>t<>l 1 \~m IYt.•hT'ln \\'illhms R·,cketmen Tlte hollll'l'Oillillg fut· tltt· nrsitv t'LI!llll•f'lttl'\• . .._·ttl !'l\t 1 ,:·~1'. t~:','1 :1• ' 1 ,:,. \\t:.~·LII~•t·t ... · 1 • 11 ·-l',,: c:.ttr.rn.l llt.ILL ~.gnl.t Ch., \Yhil'h will bp met tontolto..v (a,ftt>I '. ', • c.... 1 1laero:-.:f.' tPa.nl thiN aftPrnotH; ~til l•:~o~ :•·tHl ,__ .. , •llltd .:1'•, ~- !;. littl ··<· \!.• I· i .\ ..... :.!II.' : .• 11 l•·\l.ty .d I L··:~· .. ~ rh ]-~.·~ -T!!t ',l fit iL-l ('hi. ptonl) .in tlH' I\-od:ll< ~~ity j..; thP Ollt' i 1)<..-it\att•d Gtu·net I~ast lw a \'t'l',V Vv'al'Hl Ullt', vdth tht' col- .... !Lt·: r ..... l·· !J, .. L. 'l• ,· ··t , '• \\ .~:: : ... , i:·· ~l :_.,I n••t·-• '. ·!.·t I··.. J•. :·, I'll. :' :,;rr .. l K.:I:·I'·· ~tntHh!tng hlPC'I\ ll'ft ln tlH• pntl_l (lf I Yl•ar l·>Y S-l Score lt•gL· \\'t'lcoruiug tlH• Ytl·t~'l':-, u\t·r J•••I!t·!:~ .: 1 •: 1 .. ..._\:l\ :\: .• - :-.·: ~!.c \ .. :- t•I. ·.Ih\•· ~ .,. l!.t'l_th:'!it_\' ••1 . ...: ... ~ 1:.. ·r.~~·~ 1·'-1·'~. l :• .... !'\ 1 • ''-·ti·I·;t tht' <ra.I-nl't l'Ulllll'I:-; and \\'l'l~ht 1\1. I. T. and lhP ~warthnlnt't> tPn -It\.· 1·:-•ht:! ~.· t::i ::it ···''t:t:•••:; .·:: \·· ·1-, :•·,,t ... l •.• ~~ \\':-:-ttt =--~::·t.t !••ll l·i·t1•r: . 1 :thru\\'t•t::; \rt· \\'t~h tlu~ tracknll•nl l't·.td\· to ha.nd tht· I>utl'hnu·n op· 1 .\1·· • :.•· l. ..• l::l .. t.t t'l!. .\.\ ll.l~l h. on U.ll• pltlJll {'onunittl'C' lltl'k in, · ·. · .\ltX !l•!·t 1-:t,•i. _, .•.• :,.,·~:. lh·· ll'l htt'l\ll:t~lll; l'··~·t::-Jilan·.; :!!!., I•~:!',.:\ll:''' .... ~g:r·•l'll.\\ ··. ,,·\ ,•> ·~· . ·., i Thi ... :tftl·tnDDntht•\\'i.Hi:unstl'nni~ po~,ttnn a~ ~ornudablr• ~ts that l:··,i l~-t.dt:- 1 !J .. ~· :~t t•· \\ :·: 1 .•. t ~ • .:. 1: t •. tu.~! •·:._ t t••llll 1 ll~ t- d·. : , ... ·• . ...:11 l.; .... t.Hlt < .tt( l.tnl\\' tht -.11 lt .. un n~lt ol !\t IH -l tv.llll lt'tUtlb to Unplteatt· ht•t X-1 \Vluch II{Jhatt dt:-;ht·d out two \.VPPl{.., -u····t~\l'il It••':•! •htn t:.t\ hl•l ::t•n !ul th.- .•!'tt.fl•··,n tlhnllntt·t.l n<'ctady to~not·J:ow nunnJn~. llo\~'-!{trublJI.n\ of tllP (~atnPt l'ackPt ago. \\nth ~P\'t\'ll of th<·d' ganw;-; · ' Horseshoes \ , f J<· I' t t 1 ,., \\h•n t}·~·:-. i·l·~·· i ':i' iiL't hL.Jt:l '1':1,· ',:J.•· tl •, i!.t. \\!lith h.t. t• t', I _.m_ ·,tu. on l't'IH'a ;-; 11...: \':Jt>ldt>l .... uf 1B3L \\'ttl! nn allay of aJl·t·ady playl·<L tllP LittlP <.Jual{t··r...; ~·' •. I 1 • ..:· • .. ·L·tLl~ ~l.•l! t• tlll 111 t!l 111 n ; : .. t,_ ~: •• l':.~ :: tlt-btJlt·ll; ~~~~~:~~~~~~~lgtrla~:nu{~ 1 / 1 ~ 1 \~H~ 1 1 7 l:~~~d\\\t~~~·~~t·llt 1 ~ -ttun:.:. :-.lltll\.t'l,...; 11~ tht· fundatnl·ntal h:t\'P a good hP:ul ~tat·t o11 l~nitJ!l, t••' I!Lu; .,.,,lo\t··l l,,:lL .. 1 :: 1 :~:1_, ·:li \\~.:.1~ ,,,lllPt'lt·:--· •• • • • .. . t~ • • ~hot:-.thL•\ha\'t•lu~hhupt•:-.ofbt·ar-andV\iHputnnl'XJH'l'it•net>d~quad _ •. ,,, 11 _, 1 .·'·'' ., .. 1 ... ,... ,, , 1 , ,. ... ·' 11 . (\\uuung Tt·anl ~lt•nhon£'d I~ust) l\;aguszew~ln lit'<'!'\' t\~'rng tlw ,..;h\t .. ... : 11 , 1 . •I 011 thP Lihr:tl'' Fil'ltl. -l'!nt:JIL' l\l!. \' .,, .. • .. 1 .. 1, Ill ... - ll 1 f {l . l!lnd\\.•\ lt.llll(..,, .:r 1Jll1.ltlutlth,dlllk 1\131 Illnt'. \a.h!. \' .. 1 ,· tlld ~I·JI~l..:,t.dd \\'lil at-1 ~\:•r.l :::.--l:tt:t Th .. Lt l'l·Tih·t:~ lldta;\\:1.' OVl'l:·tll t:Ptl'tlH .tllO\\'lng the' . ~: • . , , .. ~ •. , , ,.. . ,, . . . <'h:, I-::n, ,. ... ,..t.:..,~ .. u-:-'-gl1l,t L'ln, ,\lp-lm 1 t!t~cu~~ 120 fl'E't, nnd tf tho\\ fl<>t't· H.tlltlu r \\on (ll.LIHII!O!lshlp Satne Union Lilwup ·' ·•'I'· 1 •' .. IJ·•· <lilt\ ddt•.tb \\ll!th 1'1· I '• '·1· · 1'1' '\ · I\· · 'f t· ll' \I n .. • I \' C . ·' b l3 !J I\ II h N , 1 . , , . 1 ., l l l· , ,. .. 1 l ••• t·,\ .• I.ttt~. 11 :---1g:m .. t '-·t·PP·l-. oo ::o, 11::-;, n.O~:;:, dl1t .a.'lfl'tUnan, apt:11neu y u \\.P e er, o, '_~.. ~ l ,t' .! .l ..... 1 I rlt.t l t 1l nt .. t ... t ~ t ,tl. l't.• ~ hl!l.t Jld:a, L:tUJt.II:--kt !JI no:-.-. nlaintain thl'il' :-;ptlC\d and f'ndul'anc·t• !Han. and C'onqueret of AI VVinston, Coach Dill Harln1l's;; '\ill pt·oh- Tilt· C'··! . ..::.tt· n!~1t ,,·.1! .... ,, !:.:·l, t'\·· t I' !):1 \''!; t•c·~.h - ·t~w~ ftnlll llt•t·l- l.,i!J •. !·d.L t'l~l .\.l1•ha. 1 th . d th y 11 . 1 ably u~P the ~an1e lllf'll thi:-; aftt•r- '-'\lliL'\VItll.< ·•·:·<-:l·~I ... ,<[,.Il\\\\ !\• .. 'll\\'l I\ !\'13 I I II I I Tl _on e<>lll ~r,..;, L' \OWJar;:..t~ ,\mhL'l'>t'~fonnidabl£'~la1·,thl'Pur- tl t I . t h T I •· .: I. • ·' · '. '''\\ · \ • • · · 11 \· ·\ : 1 i•lt; 1 ' 11 ~· !:t· 'l~·ta \Viii have mnn' on th<>ir hantl,.; tlw.n ]Jle olf~rs a vete1an tc>:Ull whic-h la:;t noon mt s arlee agmns t e PC 1 \\l('ltl!ll'.~ :dld L .:l~·· n l!Jd.t I' uf dt ; 1 1 · ILl ('}ll l.t•L\ rllt~t.t (1,.:--; gnu llll, tt-am l·L't ~aturduy Juck Snlith t(·,tt. ·r!., ·' ,, 1 ,. 11 , 1 :bt 1 ~~·~:.- •. -t' ,~,, 11 ~ott tu Pia~· ,;u:Llit• l'h ~ £!1:. 1 1-\.•I•P-l-L.twl .. l .. t'ht ~\!t•iLl, they can ,manngt\. YL'al' bP'lt AnlhPrst 0-3. KPllPht)l' lr . . l:::; \l • • • \ t L<-<11<t•·k• t:, .. ,.[>,·l<.L t'r•-•t .. n, Emt·r-' l-Iami!ton anti H. P. I. tlw two r<>- won the ~c·w England intercolll'e'•i- .mons \'trong man ° 11 the at- \\'lth .t -nJt-..lJ:tL ::11-.-. \:~,_·t.~~ry l•\t·: ~ tack will a a· h h. t to tl~l' u:\-wt·_: ~.~: IH:l: 1 ,.~tlll, a!\tt•t J,11·k ;-,(ln, \\'}HI \V.tlthtl oft' nl:.tn\\ 1:- ' 1 l·-L.u.-Pil-.\lqd 1 • 1 Phi ll~,_·Jt.l, ~:gtua · maining n1eet~ on tht~ ~rhrLlulP ate tPnni.; chan1pionship, and po~- • c g 111 ave t.s par f tl \I 1 t t 1 i ., · • t h' •· ,.;l · 1 'h•-Ti •• t\ 1 '• i!.t L'l> 1 ' Uc-ta Tht 1 ·'· l'l· 1 should not offl'l' too much OJ•pn.;i- \CS:Ol'~ a ~t rong service and an un- play at out-home in todny',; game. till :r ti1~1 .-dt\l\·' d _,,;n,· \\'tth \ 1 ' • 11 : 1 ,_,. '· \· 1 ~L .. :0!.·.,:,·- , · , · Ken Tom)Jltins or Crabb Thomas, La:·:.y,·:t·· w,,. ,.lllt\t' l\>In<ll :.,~t \ .\.--]':tl' tl..- IHl!nb,·r t11a.t .. \:\ 1 ~~--·n,,-:,, lhlt.l <'ln·:'.·iir.lt<~.·twn. T:w Buff a~1d f,lut• ht,; a bt>atab!t• ovt•!·lwud ~n1u,;h. He and both of whom have shown their 1 1 . 1 t·ntt:••llh,· n.t. \\'!l~ Jll;'lY ~tt l.!{l:lllt·: •. :. 1 T·ttt J1:-En•\' .... 11 _Ltl ... !ll 1 ,dl.t tt'~tn1ofabonttht.'!-'dfllP::-trPngtha~ Jone::;,vvhoplay:::;intheNu.2po.si- w:~~: lt\ ll•·X' 1 \' l.dl ,L\( .. (\• t ,,, t·•dt\. l:li:; L':ut.•( w.:l ~hit a.t:,.,_.;-'·~::u <'!.!, 1..<.111\<1.-k: ~~,· .. ,.['it! la~t year's v•hich thl' nutC'h!lll'n ti .. n, l'Oill]lO~t' the brst Ptu·pletPr..m. ability inlhe cuge thus far, will be tn:..:hty IIL<.~.•.:....:ht tlf ti:t· ~~ tit~• n · the choice~ for startClr in the go·1lie I t•:n~ \Y!.h \\tn\· ::~ ~lluth :t.t tuv,·t-':...: 1n, .1 E .. i'l''·· P11 c: . .~nuto:t l 1 t·!t.t- ~\\'anlpt~d b~ .. nn o\' ... \'1'\VlH·ltnitP~ ~\van, anothPr VPteran of three · · ' \\I:. II Ed H:, l''·'\· ·'\ ., !•:: .. 11,·:. 1 1 .. \' 1 L• 1 1'1 1 It 'fl r I po,;ition. Joe Agius, husky football I ' '• ·:n: [., w 1. 111 ,-n'i'r. ::dt v tlt'· · l: '\·. ·· 1 ' 111 • ·1• '\\· • 1 '\' ,,. ,,. ·' seon•. le • l'l' lllll'n a1e hPttl'r yl':tr~. will uppo~e :r·..Ioffl'tt in tilL· \\ ,,.,J .1 tl:t ,, -htt ;,3 'ttl\\ t.. - 1 .... ,, tl th b 1 1 Th man, will tnke his plac<> at th<' L'<>k.•t-·· \'''' tLl• l:.lt.l.-:<n-. l. 1 ·,;~ , 1 ,. ~··n-•·J~~ ,.,_ \ ,t \: Ill J:L. til-t \\ 1 . 1 1 1 wn PY Wl'l'l' a yl'a~· ngn ut th<'\' t JilL set of singll·~ matches. P\e point po;,ition, while Captain Scot- ] _ '\\\ ot r 1, t dd•·n····· \\' 1 :il him\\ ~ .• · •. ','\ 1 ,~ 1 -,··.: .:::n \i.t l'hl .\lr•h:t-l'li should not ~pl·ion~h.· tl:1rt'nl<'ll th~· thru• m<>n present the be:c-t oppo.-<i- t .~·n llltl llllllt t-h:111 t.n\'lt· ill~t.:t. !. ~n -- t , , ~ L' . 1 ty McNah. onP of tht~ in1portnnt I I , . , . ::1, , t:t -:d• wr.i 1\· li ·t h·1. 1 --~--· .. . 1 nwn \rae \ters. tion that can !Je found in any of lht' \ ,. t·\••r \''Y L w.-.· lllllt' Wtltth .\;·td :_:,:--1!.-t.• Tlt•·tct f',·l'~i 1 p-t!on 1 II 11 I E cogs in Union':> impreg-nable de- ~n.t . ..;~ ... !:t :•-1\·:·:~·:.Y fi•·!IltL·· I:.,.J j, .... ,,. ,.;,,,.,·,t. , .. '-1-tl\ ·1t c .. n ,.;,;:n;;tl'lll·l•·!t.t <'h:. · ·:A SLl'GGI:\'G 1\IAT\'Jl 1.11'1·:•...- :,.;ma co el:'es of tll' •'ast. l·lc.w- f n 1 t e k 'II 1 t th~ • ... ·· .. ' ... ' ... , · - I . ' \' -a·• 1 evt>l' Captain Gcotgl\ Stt·oebel und e ~e as w e ' vn P uy a {.- l~:!l,h·r:- T''\\ •i:t}- 1..:•·: <'•<~,.-·•:·· : ·r \\\lu:. 1'1·· .:t· ,-1; i'\.-lliL•ll.\' Will. .. - -- I Tlll're wtll bt• u l'C'U] ~lu;.;ft•'t \''<'r. Jack .Moffett, when on their \Ume cover-pont bet·th. lt>uk\ 7-t> liLI\lt;.; II•llt ·' ·t:tblou!n !••· :_,;,,.nl>}· l' .. t 1-:n;;!:tnd :ttl<l Cam- Inttarntu·:tl game,; Oliginally'on.AiexonderFi£'1d thi,.;-aftt>rnuonifllcdn give stelling perfm·m~nces. The oubide dPfense will be maclL' BI<I\Wn l'mv<·l~.:\· .t,..;rt·..:.l; .. ·n fc•: tll.L<>t.t. .\:t 1.-.wt<'ll< ,. and H<rwil' tl 1 t t - 11 ,. 1 up of two expert sophomore ~tick tl . , · · l\lt >lJ,!• ., 1 \\'ll! t:t!''' t!Jt· tJ\I']J.>lllL' _ >'dledul•·tl fut• \·minu~ date~ which H' a,.; wo gamt>:; WI I •. w:n:t l· 1 They will pair off with the No. 1 l)' k • - 1•·1r '<'I'<>Iht •''c· \It'll' po~tpunetl because of rain or more and Ruche,;tera!e any rndtrn- anti 2 \Villiams players in the men, tc Kennedy at fir·st de- ·n.l l~:hdtt~t J•l•:-t -. d:u·knr~~ hrn.·e bl'en changt\'d a~ tion of .the Hill batting strength. doulJle~ fenBe and Don Liffiton at second Eight \'t'!t·ra-ns Th,, nt·d 1 ~tit.;, t- \nil ('(lllt~· h··l• \v::!1 .1 tt· .• tn ~~r \.t:t: til'\' ft1t \\·ltn ~ht• t'Xo't'Jlt'\t'l t•f I >,• •. J\l fi: T ].·, -• • \'•\ ~ 11: '1 • '': • i :0 •· t! '11;_ tt .. !ll 1...; .t IH):.itl\1 r f:,tit, ; .:-ot Yt·o~:. .f .•• : ... I),·llJp ... t·y. ,.l ll\•! •, • tr~~~tn -hr·z~--t,,r, tJ11- ;.· ~.: \\'1'1 l'i;1y t~.11d ll:!'-1' .t:~·: 1- t t.. ':t _, •• ;;, ttl Jt1 th· 1: •. ! L .. : -.·!1 -!1\1'-:-•t•J' :no! :. ; .. v·;, Jl•·tn},-t·y ttl ·ht· i': tt•·, C':q•t .. n ~·-· \'' hui\, wh·· \\'••t!nd I:J• tl~·-· ,.~ -··ll :.l.-' \t ::.! wit!: 't t0,, l) '!.n:...: .. 1\• 1 ·-' \\1:1 lw ... ,.,.:, ;n t't·r.!t·: Lt !tl C'l: ::,· .\t~d'! · ::. f11; 1 h' t't ~ t t! · \ l I, 1 1 ~- t ·, t• :1•· ~, !o'Indtn: '·;t ht t!lt!d :0' :a th• :\1 :.! , •n t• ;\- • (·j•J·.t\!. ... i .,. } !, !~·nl .t . ;~~~~ b t''ln-~ :~ \'•: '·- :. ,.; •' :] i. ~, . :\.! J.. \:1: L. · ::1 • • .. · ·t n: ~t i•··-.' :\n ·, ·· ::'- ~l·t1 'Y ~l· I), n• ::_!. ;- t!:· . lltl t. ~~·:t~.l!: '.\ ~:. :. •l•l. .... : li!; .!l '\I !Y ...::;.dll• (_'\ · · t ,• •-1ll .-\• J ; II' l~t I \:ll ;\.. : ',>,{ l T!:· l· ) \\ .\. ! I. f :H.::..' L•·II.t : ' f ~ ' ' I ' ! ·•,t l>:ci~ un.nht!:.•·J t,,! :;.::;;,t·,dt!, ;.....: d.nc,~h··t \'t·'n .~n \\·L(J .. <~1...: ..=-t·t· .,f ll• ~~·. J.., l~!i•.d \'\\ Ito 1, \\t·it , by B.rt .·\:J.t·: .. fc.: t ti~t· t~_t.·•, ~~ •. :. ~I) LHt tlitnl).'},':!ll!.- it. ~I.· 1 Illtw l.a.r~:•· Pit:chin~ ~tan· The .-· ff th;L't' .tt.i ~· ,11 !•,lt! :•1- t'l:-- ~tlll­ IH·I I rf :IJ<· l·:...: tll!t•· J- L•!'•, \\: ,_.ht \Vhtt j•I: t ~:t l ('4 .:....:.l!t• tt1 :111 \'-;.! \\H tt•l:•.: ••\(oJ' tfl, jl,l't :.Ij,lll J.t .... i_ :-··::. ~.n.' .. · :.::t.•n Ed ll:<i<•·\\. \Vh::f_.l~~, 1\•rr. L,.:- !t\\~'.!-'·-:•:t·:. Xt·. 3 };,,, ;-:~.: .. •.!t t;·-~<~ .. • 1-t:- ;..:u.~c,t,. LJ,, ,., !··:~~·- .• t~·l 1 .. •··· ~\:t:-. 1 :.­ dt~·l a!t· t!-~t·; ,,,f ~ rr.• .n. .. ~n~ L, Ct.~l..:.~t•· .~.-~ o: .. y 1' :1: Jr.• r. 11111!. tl:t ~r L<~t .-. 1 ~1· .J. · I~t , ! .. :t!· !tt:t.• ;1,.,. hu~ H t, t:\.'•·r.t t~· 'ilf :-..; . ._.,. y,.,l. Y~il'lkL'' .-; .J, hr.rl\ J~r 1 .1-i..- Lt· 1, .1· tL~r 1it'lt;.l! r>•lt: F •. li~Z ~L· tl .. ~l: ba .... f~llliln an·.l C q1t·.Jn ~·I'll:•· l.;t.• . ...:· \\'t:lt~ al~~., i~~-t tLr11\1..:h ,..:!.ttlli ~·.·.z. TheiL· 1::, ht•\V•\'t·J'. .1 Wt·dti. '': lu. t•·nal Ht f.·l..:l:t (·x;_,, r;l·n~_· .. ,t u .. r. ! ..,:l\t• the J:Ltl l~ll'J.L·I:.: it }HJ\\'t'J!iL t•:am. I'PnH•rad to Lead OII C:tiJ~ ... in R\li•h S(\rnerad wll: J, ;,,J h:..- ~t·,tn-tn:ttt·.· into thf· iHt.ttk f11dl1 ht.- n·n·•·: li>·ld pro-1. liP \\'Ill l·•· tlll :•·'Jil-r~:·t f;l1n tr,, l .. nicJn ,Jncl, :t!· •tlf1 1...::t, h,_. L·~~ IH·• n .n a b:tt'ftn:..: -.llll.fJ !.~.- t;j(t{f·rl :.p d J:·~ll• -11.('1 rr~· lt: ,+ ..::1:rP· Lt tt IH·.•l \\ .. lli un- d•,•;t,~, Hy tH· l'•·'\•I•rl Lv .Jitu L 1 1r :11: '';l.l11 \\,T}. I·:r 11!•· I;· ;,\\·n. th·· l: ..... Lt )J•·irlf··l :11) tt,r!1\.\ ~:lJ.t !,fJ:d.- t!J! L;_h,--t h ,•· .:-- . ....! ~t\•·: ,:_.:.· . ,, f~tl tbi.., • ;1 11n VL.~t h 1.-1· ·.v;J: bf ( '• ·~' 1 I f J. t :. t' \' t I· t. t II, (_;, ( ,J ....:, 1· r·, .. ,tl.'.r ·.·.··r .. ,·· .. ,. ~ I,' ' 1 ~ •j !)~\\ ,l • ;. J!•}JI•f hurlu. j• , f I, I• 1 J J!; , r, ~~ t , \ I' • I l • · .. ).' !.o inq,rrJ·.-.·lJt' :.· .r, t1 ~~ ~·tzn;.:. 1\ll. a~r.un (,,·,,z ~L· •.. 2·-·~·.~ :• :.;,I~~,); J{f_~HL \V}.OJ !.·1 t .• ~·r. • . I , t,,y lvJtd- lng diJ\Vr, t.),,. I''' 1'.• .;, '\'1 b) C1!1p lJ :.n \\· 1 .. ,._. : t ''•!• Th!!fi L:t'ol' ·.•.!l.J,I• ;,IL· •' ··d by f>;t\'F· C 1•1\'\.·,Ji~;l•!t·l .. \\.'h•J · .. r- tJ• f•fl do1n~ ... c,rnf· tdtlfly hl•·t.r.;.· ;1, u,, Jla .. ~ thr11· ..!:1IJ,r -. T:lf· -·.~, h1tt\t'.\ t1f r;.z\· f;r, ·.•. 1 in ~hr· Jil~r·h~·r·.- b:.x a n,l ·.\I ;-.!t. • .. ·;- .-,,n c.df L1n;.: \\.',,I hf· 111 ~~~ · .••tt :t;.::un;-;t thP l~f\d f~·tidf!:-' 111d:1\. GtJ .... v..:r~Jcl h;,, tv...·(, ,.Jc·tr,t i1·- :tncl nrJ t!r·ft···t •' h; r f··!;t . (J f:11 th: yt d Tilt' l:n< np !<>I 11,., 1 t~<·lti wrll bl': follow>: :Colgate com_Ps here with \'-'''n a·. ·\.Its· defense. Elliott Fraser, varsity . • Fox at ::'l'o. 2 Post 1 t d t h 1 t :'nuth :d .·•· il. :lh1111 ·t pnint. J. Sufthall 1 hnrdcr slugpng- team thnn tlw~· had man as year, an eon y ve eran I! .1,:- ·t ,,,,.,,,,,11:1 i'. ll-t . ..:1~ at .,_ Ia~t year when the :IIaroon uatnwn l:nion',.; iinl'U!J will remain the filling one of the five center posi- -· ···•J:.: .J •. f, n.. \\\. 1 d :,t fiJ.·-t \''· 1 '• 1 ,.· 1 t·J. .1:1' 1 '\ !-·;,; !•tiLl, }1. 1 ~ · rl11 11 tt·rl tlw h,.n 'lll ... _.,., til<> fi··l·l -ame as .J:ist wel'l{ with a subotitute tiom:, will be f:een at center. :··n-1· l'\·1'-•1- ll!ll•l :\\l··Jtl<llrl 1 .,~ .. ~·~ 1 ,!>·;tt>;.:_;.l. 1 ... :':...:n 1 I\:·;;•l in tht• la:--1 f•·v...· inninc-.. t.o ht··tt fl1!·S~1Lulin::ixthplaceandapo~~i- Four Attacl\:n-le-n .,1 ~,., ·>Ii•l :t'!.t··l.:. 1'111: d tlL t att·u·,c' .\'l.t~ ' ~·, !., ~··t! F.• !d. t•nillll X<~. fot OllP of lll\ t\~t<~ .-'l'tw ·lJIL• Ieplacenlent of Jerry H.o!'ien, Hal \.,.andt.~car and Ken 1-fac- , •• : : ''\ 1~: ,, :; ,, ··ntlH•I111· cnl A:t·X- 1-:,_~.' .. ;rh'.'.'.,l·'-~ 1 t .. \:l'\ <'!11. ~1..~~ back~ tl•<' C:.t.r·IJ<'t >llffPtt·d 111 tht• ·::1 .wl10 i~ ailing with an eye infection. !\lunay, both of whom hung- up ~n :~··t ,• nd:\•!n• h ,,.:.I .... ..:r I ,-,,. ,., '.tl~. ;vi.~~ ~· ~t'n.-on. Au;-; 1' ox, at twu, nwets Jane~. nnU four talliPs lat-'t vveel\., ·wt1l piny at Eudt• Brn\\11, tht~ onl,:\ ~1.phn­ Jnort• ou thP ha\~PhaU t't\'4llll ha.-., lwt>n I:itting t'h<• h.lll <'t>ll,.,i»t- f•nt!~. !ttHI nc•\\ h~!' t !w hiAhP!-.1 J.af.tlllf; ,l\t';':u.;c• on j.)Jp \>ljtUld. ;111 ;.1:1.! f•·J 1.1- thl!tl h:t.; bc·'t'll ':11 :•:! ,_.! t !.t' li'•,l :.t :t ll,t·:y );}!(' ·i~l ;,' •:. \VIU o~:.... ·Ill d•,:t ti.t· C':ltC'h~ •J p.t.qd,•·r::.:J:, .1nd :ntH' hL .... h 1c 1·~--!''l·!•:n:..: l''J.·:tl,,ll lH·h1ntl tht Jl; .tt•, l nion Hal'> ;; \'\in' '\ \\' , · .. \ 1 J.·,. :.J A:-;11 J<'ny Coh•·n will <'XChange ~hob the sPcond and first attack posi- _.\'_\I·J·.:. !·''\ 1•:!.1 1··1~~ <:oll:Jio.> l•·!t.•.·------ .\l\l'ti •. ttthcl:51'.wan!lf\Villiamsinthethild tion,;, Smith and Hugo Bt>rgman, Jt• :\(. I•':tl•l. 1' 1 _~· . .'.' .. · :• .. Th·'·' -\· .. , oJ,., :.r •. :0!.1\· 1\ \1 'd ~,;_ :-.: ... \ !·· :· 1 J';, i\ ': ''·\·' Sevr-a L'nC'ounl<'t~ n·main aftPr to- v 11 f;~~:~~~.t~~~:~u~~~;~;n~i;ln~~i~7-!;~~;~ ·' :-.;,.,: I tid . I '• ;,,_ I \' C C :\1 Y l S th ,~, ...... ,·~ .• l• ..... .M.1\ :1, :\· ··r1, ,·.,qJJ•il 1 \··:.· :·•, r:\trt r:...:. \' 1 ,.,., 1 ~.:: c. a.· · • .. • ·an( wBcn, 1 r 11 1 !1 11 • 1 ~,, 1 _.: po~ition~. !-', '.J 1 '• it..< 1 · .,. 1 ' will lw met nc·xt WL•<>k. . c • The Swarthmore ten, which hns \'.I: 11 • 1 1.\\.· 1 1'!1i. ;\li\ 1\ ~:;;',: : :~;:~ll~~ll~~~; 1 ~' 1 e ~.~ 1 ° 0 U I~~~~~;;[ l'~]l~~:.~~~ ~?i~~~~; 1 u ,;~~\;~s,W~i~! t~~~ ;.a\c~~: .II . . I:'. I. I ' I \' .. .'1; 1:·'.','-'t';;_ League Standing~ c,,]umbla t l'ant. ThP _1 e,;t of .tltl' I ['0!11pO~PU m:..inlv of Vl'IP!\Uils on I·· · \. ··· · .11- M .. \ 1\ :-loft ball ·_c-hPdu!t• clwuhl ht• l\!h~hl'll oft ~n the fil'ld. C. C. ·N. Y. wa,.; on<' of 1:- '\ ·'' I·' • :d :\ORTHI·:H:\' 1111<' ordL~l ll~a;nst Co,gate. H_urn.tl-~ the teanb takL·n uvt:r bv tile LittiP T·;l· : 1 • .''., 1 :· ···., ~·.:., .. \ 1 ' lt:<. IY11tJ l••'t :on, R. 1 · I., \PJmont. and :\ 1 rJd.t· l~uakPrs, 111 a fiPt:> o<c,;ring batth- 1·' :, _: .. , ''· ;•,, 1 . .~1r 1 ·11 c'r,, \: 1 .11:1. ~ _J, J•],. l 1111 ~· 19 to 13. 'l'he gazne~ v:hiC'h havt· 'i .. l\ J: .. • -· ,,, ,; ·i I: .. ' --- ---- -- I been playrd by the Pennsylvanian~. 1 \ _T 1 ·.· ... ; .\l· · ... \J,, \\' 1 · \:;:·~~ 1 ,,,._. 1 '',~;:; (;..ts 'fhrt'e Rase liit lostorwon~howtlmtthPattaclting c'J 11 ['- 1 l'lld of the tPfUH i~ iu top <.ondition. Hor~~·-,lw<'•• SOl\T!n·:H:\' LP!:igll wa~ dowtlt·d 19 to 3. ::lt. :--. ....:· 1 . 1 1 . 1 , \T.t\ 7 , .. ,~, \ 011 i .,.., 1 John~ and Hutger . .; won hy cl.,~l·, 1 1 1. 1 ., 1 1 ·,, .:\J.,, :--~ .... 1 . 1 1 • :r .• F'i i high !,l'on·:-:: fron1 thP S\.vartltnluro .. ;· '.. 1, \l \; :'\·••1, 1 •.. , \:i.· tt·aul. Fzun1 :-;ucfl inUicatiun~. it Jo! · ~~~·· 1·; \ 1 ''' t· 1 1·1-, i\J,t, 1 \:. 11 1 ': 1 1 1 '. '/ 11 _ 1 1 '·/:.:'J·., :-;~,_•cnl:-; that L'nion't-i dPf€'11::-;0 \-Vill ,·1 1 .. _ ·-. 1 - ,~ 1 ,, 1 }f.,., l:· .. ·.t~· [·t. 1 :--.;.: 11 , 1 ''t''J•. 1 have a bu!'o.v day, \Vhil( 1 the atta,clc !\•·· \ _,, !•· ::. 1 1 '• I', !·'! .\l •\ EASTJ<;H.:-1 will hav\ the opp01·tunity to dup• 1., · 'c 1\ \\ r ,., 1 lie ate thL' ~coring fl·at~ of thl'it· !'on- \';·'1:- .. '.·;,...::J•,;~.c :'a.\'.r I··! :\·1.~., :~·i',':::.·J~I!,J, l'. ' tPn1poraries. \l'l. ·., 1 •• ·' , 1 .,,, 1-:tt.•, ... , L.l! ., 11 , .~.:.! 11 ,., 200 l .. ound Goali{l' ,I ,. 1 ·. '- 1 .. 1;,.'\ 1 ,_.. .'-·,.. ,.1 ... 1 .. 1 Conch Illalu-. will lll'ohal,l\.· ~tart .,. . . l I 'J'; I·'· I, ~\f ·'' . .. it' I t 'ltl 1 . . :.1.• _ 1 , • __ , 1 ,., :-.;.... \\'E~Tro:R;-.; C'rul JPnlt·l·, 200-pouml ·t<·Jiing- dP· i •' .,, ,':', ...:· r [..,: I l I·' TlH . t .'\' !j I:, .... ;. \\ 1111 I w .. J' fpnsc•mnn, in the goalie's (l,_ge. The -.~. ,,. 1'1l, 1 ., ;·. 1 T1 11 :. 1 fin£' Vlorl;: of JPntPr, vvho is playing ~ -\ ' r·•,. ,,~,,_,., ·. \:.\ ' :-.;..... . \ ,. d•. ,,, hi,.; first year with the \'arsity, ha:> I·' ·'~ .• ...:/,' !•t·i·' L. 1 ' 11 ' t,-;, · .\'1 :-· ''·'P'•t :--- .... ,,,, ht•0n CJllP of the out ... ttHHhng fpal- 1 I:.·. T!. ·., I' .\l:·h.t J•Jt 1 f•, !t,. 1 • ).Lt\ - 1 r 1 :.:\·', \~',·;···, 1 :;',,, 11 \~. un-·:-; of 1'ht• Pt•nnsylvania tPil. 1. :'' · .,, r. 1 1 Horse~ho(·~ I're,.;ton RoC'hP, a newcomL·r to '\·.:',' ~·:·; 1 '• t., 1 · 1 ·-·'•·· i\L,, :>.'.-'\TIOK\1. ~;~·il~m~;/:Y·r~:2ti:li~l t~~~~t~oi~ilf\~~ ;, ,, I ··~L.: •I l'~·li: tl• ... '}...·II:-·.\1.t• ~: ·:.·_t· I', \\\uu I,,...,, 110ll'iS~(·tt, a :-;nphon10l'(\ Tavlor, a J:, t.\ Tl.t r.. \ -.;,,, , . 1 ,, 1 ... , ~ophomor<> who i,.; rpplacing one of ·\' T~ • ,, J, I '• l:.t f', 1, :\-1.·~ 1 1 ' \lpl· l'h1 I•· l::t thP n·gulurN this year, will proh- 1., -' ·' \-<~•:•• l'l:t. r. ,,.;'\\\' 1 ''\ ... ably;.tartatfirstdefen~P. JimMc- :\1 ;.. :--.;.\ 11 , '~.tn\ 11 ; 1 1 .• ••• l':fllti·\L-L.II~•·n Cormack. vetPran for th1·ee veal';A, !..·1: ·'.· ,.,, \ll•li.c-TI-•1:. :-.:u 1:p- : .. 1. ;;,;:_:-~;~J- 1 1 ,''\ will run with Taylor in thP :o;_,cond \I. '\ \ ·'- :-: ..:11..1 1 '!.1 defense place. : • ..:~ ,·;::, p,~\1. 1 ',;\·:.·· ~~i.\\ ; 1 '..: 0 : 1 \'' 1 ': l•:t. ~~~· 1 ;·.~· 1 , .. 1'·;,,, t'1t. on~t 0 ~c7~~t· 1 ~!~~ill:g: ~~(~~P~al~~tet~n~ \J., 1 '' 1 :- •• ,,,:,L:. A:\iFIU('\'. ...~ I ' l't I' b t' 1 ·. I'· :\1 ,_,,, .. ~·!:\ 1\ r:· .. ,.,,.. ·· • · ·' ·lim ,oonus 11 us at tng team. A sophomore named Barney I'•: 1 .. ·:. 'J'L•'\ ':\.'\'!.•IJ.«II. t'\'\ ·'··'·\''\:\ 1-:-... 1\nn f..u,t 1->lride last. wre!u•nd, clouting a Pl'ice, who ha,; been popping goals ,,, '\\!\' Th•JJ'll>.<1·1·\ :.1• \··l·r·h \·'-''\·' K:.;•t•.l t.riplp with thrc•£' men on base a:< often a~ the first-rated mpn on '••·I ,.,,,,, . .t 1 1•1. 1 <;, 111111 , 1 J.,; 1 , aswellasmaldngtlut>rsingles. the ~qu·ld will play ·t ec d t Tilt· '''\lit of thr> fn'llnwin\· 1••1:, 1 l'lll ....... .. - --·-- ---- t k. p •k, a s on a· l:oi-'<'-'LrH• g~rrw~ U!P untepolted to J,·,n.J,.[., 1'1:• .\lJ•I•,l .. ac. er IllS or Dick Post will Thr.· l':ot••n t•:ttn \\:ll -\ rnt·\ the th•· [Jj 1 ,., 101 ·~ offleP. Informntirm Th.-1'. 1 x 11 l:t\ti••l> 1 , HATTI:\'G A\'EHAGES play at the first attack. Laird ,1,,,. \\ith lh:···· -t:ll:,_::.t u''\'\\-· t·onc<'tntnc: tlwm is urgent!\· I('- r·1,1 !~o-1• .. Tt.-r, Lich<>nwalner. who is almost as 1t.-.: c lt·,Lt. ~~. \1 n.- ]\ch vva:-o qu··~ted. ~ I'll! :--=J:..:'It:t 1 1 •:t;, ... of tlu~ hard us his name and one of the ·Hhlu••l 11 1 tL\ tiJ.-t :..:: 1 ;w· bL'!Jind ____________________ ' 1 •<1::. 1 '1•\1\ 11 ---~~ ___ 3_ \'arhil;y Baseball PlnyPrs leading :;;corE'n;, will play out-llome th•· r·:.v,r ht:1lm:..: of c;llv c~1bwold. t3 games> today. Captain Bob Lewis, headr loy I;; (' ·.t.l!. \'\'·\ u:n.•Jlc wa~ Fir.Qt Strzeng Garnet Battery and high scoring offen,;ive player .·n<J'on·•l under 1n rio•· .-\rcm<l cont<\.·t 0 ~a.m<>, Po•;ition AB II I'C will fill the in-home position. by 1 1·1 1n ;,n <·l~l'!-1111lcn:..: ;c.cme • Erni•· Btown, 1h, rf .. 12 G .500 -----0-------- ]·.!•h·d by r~ •.•. ,_, c·,,,J, -•.nil Jtm Jim Loomis, If. p ... 13 6 .462 Schedule of Athletic Events LcHJflll\. Ci·!J::-W1d(l :t \110 a-- ... UnLf·d Al ~tPY('ll~on, c .... 11 ·1 .364 I:l'J',n•t d 1 !tJ •. ·t_t.iil-t J:., h· -ti'I :t!!'t. id tht.· Yt·;,r,\\. J-~~·k· t .~t,\Vn with -.X hiT 1\1 :111 ,. t.-~ 11-;$ C'l•tl'Jllt··t TLt• t·ni~~n tt·atn will Jll(J\e r.o f :1::-y ru:.: I\ frtl CiJl;..:;ftt• fP! thP I.-.1•, htnen t:·t\'t.· ...;It•:ttly 1::1pl r,,·.·d in til• 11· l::t:m~ .end t\h•· r. .. -: th;,t tlif·y :1IP l(JCJh;n:..., t(Jl ;£·--.t'll.J!'-' fot th;!t ·\'-~( df'ff·:d ;}flntinJ-..tr·t•·d b·,· thf· !~r·d f~ 1td(·1- 1.•- 1 \t' 11\ al o t·nh.aiH'£';-; · t ht·1: ~·h dll't · fell ~d vwtc;ry. TL•· 1•- .. !.:1bl1· lin•··up :1nrl b;,t'tin;.: IJ[dl'!. ;;..:. lJ jl I :l' I' ( J'J()j t•. :.!il [' If I :: • own. 1 I (' ·i·.\· .. ,r.\!\r. 3b :-:·.,.- .. n ,,n, r· I·;. • • I, - . r; t·: nl: lb COLGATE n. n.p.·•·y. 3b I ./tl -~~ · n. l\lllc 1·f. C:.pt. J\tidt·l ~r J!1, c· .\i r·I )1Jt11Jtl;..!h. 2h !Ja.·h<·\\':-1< i. I b ( )ft E ·tth;lnlt' !'. 1 f A tn•·:drJ!a, If I \\I t;:ht, J• 1 GUY GRISWOLD and AL STEVENISON :111k•' Fir·t<>, :.:h ..... 1·1 5 .357 Dave C~tdv<·al!adl't·, 3b 9 3 .333 C}u~· Grbwold, p . . . li 2 .21i0 Halph Srm,·r~d. cf ... 10 2 .200 Bob Rt•Pd, \\ , .... , .. II 1 .125 G•·orge Clark, 1 !J, )J •. 7 0 .000 Bill B1 anrlow, 2b . . . 2 0 .000 Ray Demon, c ....... 1 0 .000 Harry Mana, ss ..... 1 0 .000 Paul CumphPll, rf .... 1 0 .000 Lloyd Clad{, rf U 0 .000 !Joug Lamheth, If, p f• 0 .000 Totals . . . . .97 29 .299 (avg J Two-bmP hit:.; Stevenson C2): Bmwn C:!J; G1 iswold. Thn<>-hn:-<r hits Brown (2 J: !4·•nH\tad: RIPV(·n:-:on; Loonti!'4. ATIILI•;nc NOTICE !\fPmhPr~ nf the claHs of 1938 who wish to become candidate managers of fall spol't,.; next September should rrpnrt to the director of nthletics I as soon as possible, Bas<>hall ·Colgate FiPirl at 2:30 p. m. 011 Alexander Tennis- Williams p.m. here at 2:30 Lacrosse--SwarthmorE' on Library Field at 4:00 p. m. Trad•-Rochester at RocheHIPI' tomorrow morning. Frosh Lacrosse Del'rfiPid at DePrfield, MasH., today. GHADUATION FEE All Sc'niors art' rt'minrled that the $15.00 Graduation Fee, which ~nrludP:< thP cost of the diploma, rs du<> and should be pa-id on Tuc,day, May 7th, ai the Comp- troller··s Office. Any fee paid after the above date will be sub- ject to i.he usual fine for late payment. The Complmllcr's Office will he open for the collection of fees Tuesday, May 7th, from 9-11:45 A. M. and from 1-4:45 P. M. ~------------------~ - Th -ily !~lltl:• aftl'l' tt·r· H tlw Tlw t•Xct·J {':l\1:-1 t, oul Th !,nd t'\t'n \\ i Ill 1:~ dt { d 1 1'~ How ehan bt igl ,!\'all lcl ir l'Utllf.. t:Yen Sher Chuc pt't'fc Hll'S IU.4 1\.etz Ktul >'tclet ~llOfi ~huu mgr Glc>n Butt linb: tivel will will lton. Ju tt•l' ·140 ' is et to !J thl' ~ ruan the gTOU runr gt·ot: left =--eco :-.tac der and n1or xxo Bill Ho,.; bott inte dcnc ing- wor hap: the a. tr E aga· the the stro has mile Bill sha1 trot !\Iii< the Mal T fate this Bill cidc to illC! fair of t L Kn tea· Qt.:

r ive wm col· ten op- that mes at- to be the de- the de- up at heil· has out on of tie St. ose, ' it will de- has at- to be the on at- as the ts ter at THE CONCORDIENSIS, FREDAY, MAY 3~ 1935 Trackmen To Face Imposing Two Garnet Sophtfmore Spri:'nt Men Rochester Outfit Tomorrow l{oda:k City Men Are More Formidable in. Track Events By DUli.:E FENTON sweep of the event. These same, three hurlies will heave the discus ··for the visitors. In the javelin· throw, Alex: Brzostowski and Jack . Bloom will again send the slender' i. shaft whistling thi'ough the air. If This afternoon the Union var- Mal Griffing, Garnet captain, is un- sity track team win leave for the· able to take part in the meet, Alan: Kodak city where on the following afternoon they wiH meet the Roches- Van Wert will make the trip and· ter fieldmen in the second meet of be the third man in the javelin. the current intercollegiate season.: event. The Yellowjacket~ have as usl:l.al an' exceptionally strong outfit that will' ·BUrton Jumping Ace cause the Garnet a great deal of tr<mble. · Emery Burton, sensational junior star, wiU compete in the high jump Jackets Strong ~n Tnwk broad jump, and pole vault. In th~ The Dutchmen are expected to; first meet with Wmi~ms, Burton flnd more opposition in the track \:' 0 n all three ~vents with com~ara­ events than lhey experienced from tlve ease, takmg. the bro:;td JUI:UP Williams· consequently Coach Ketz Wlth 2 0 ~t. ll'h 1n., .the h1gh with · ' · h' fi ld t . 5 ft. 8'h m. and settmg a new col- ts dependmg on 18 e men °· lege reco d , f 12 ft 1011, · · th · carry the brunt of the burden. r 0 . • ''\ m. m e. However despite this fact the po~e . vault. This vault broke the chances ~f the Garnet remain 'fairly ex:J.stmg college record ·bY 6% in. .· . . t' When the season becomes a few .TOliN GLEN HENRY HIRST Entry Blank (Intramural Track) List entrants after each event. Members of the varsity team are not eligible. Events begin promptly at 4:30 p. m. Entries must b.e in by Monday noon. One man may enter only .three events. Name of Organization 100-yd. dash 220-y.d. dash 440-yd. n.m 880-yd. run 120-yd. low hurdles ........... . · 70-yd. hurdles .................. . Shot put ....................... . Discus ................. · · · · · · • · · Pole vault .............. · · · .. · · · Javelin ....................... ·· Five New Record Holder Emery Burton, who :broke bilg;ht. Smce no accurate lmes a:r:e. weeks· older \Em'' should be able. ~va~lable <;m the Roch~ster men, It· to clear the bar at better than 13 1 s 1mposs1ble to pred1ct the o.ut- feet The th h' h · · 1 /J t tf d At f f . •. h d' 1 d' . 0 er . lg Jumpers Will ac~osse . n' 1JOA ' U\\r.J comes 0 many 0 \....~ . sc e u e , be Arny, Bloom and Hughes; all of · · J ., ' · · . · · . • or · ~6 .· · IT • B High jump ..................... · the pole vault record a..s well as unzon y. , taking first places in the bigh Broad jump .............. · · ... · and brood jwnps against WU- A rmy Athlete ~~============~=lia=m=s =las=t =Sat=Ul'=da=y.===:::::::::::::::::::; events. The _hundred Will be run by whom tied for third last week. Hirst Sherman Hirst, John Glen and and Bloom wi11 also be entered in' nz·• h t Tl t· \l. Chuck ~rull, all of whom hav~ beell• the broad jump. Jack has stretched U'' lp an ' f efS(l, l ~ performmg well on the cmders. himself 20 ft t fi· · Hirst and Glen have done around . · over erra rma 1n 10.4 in the time trials held by Coach ·h~fc~~ce 1 but could not get .enough Ketz during the last feW weeks. g_ · ast v:e~k , and _fatled to Krull's leg which bothered him con- quahfy. If Gr1ffmg s leg 1s not bet- . . ter by tomorrow, Van Wert will ·be stdera)JIY last week has. been re- the· only other pole-toter to· com ete spondmg to t:vea~ment an<l; Chuck in the vault, p By HYMANA.~NZER should be able to tmprove h1s show- ing markedly, In the 220, Hirst and Glen will again be at the mark. Both ran nicely against Williams finishing second and third respec- tively, and wit:h Leon Saiewitz, who will complete the starters, Union will have a dependable representa- Fifty na:ked and screaming Indl- ;t:merica, with. Jim :'ho_rpe first, re- ans used to play before their ad- ,s1gned. from h1s duties m 1924 when . miring relatives at a three or four :tll.e game of la:cr9sse wa~ made a hour stretch over a course that ex- 'l:nin:or sport by h1s san~tion. T·he tended from 500 yards to ha:lf a ifall. of '23.b.ad. ·been a busy one for mile, catching and throwing a small : act1 ve ag1t~tors for lacrosse, and ha-ir-stuffed ball in one of their the followmg year the students · regular lacrDsse games, and Ia- ;v<>te:d to add -it to ~he college list. . crosse contests as played today by v~ctor tStarzensk1, forl?er star of tion. Philips Outstanding Won the Half Mile students in colleges and prep Stev-ens Tech, 'YB:s appomted coach schools are called rigorous! o:f the new actlVJty at the colle~e, yo-u ·cAN ALW-AY'S GET II AT B·R·A-NDHORSTS BRANDHORSTs· PHARMACY \On the Corner .. , Union St. and Gillespie Edw. H. Brandhorst, Reg. Phar. Leland E. Brandhorst, Reg. Phar. Judging from all reports, Roches- ter wil !have an edge in both the 440 and the half mile. Philips, who is entered in both races, is reputed to be the most outstanding runner the Yellowjackets have .presented in many years. Running for Union in the quarter mile will be the same group that astounded the fans by running Wood of Williams into the ground and then having enough left to go on and take both first and second places. Tomorrow when they stack up against Philips, those cin- der shufflers, Jack Ross, Vi Fryer, and Wally Hughes will find an even more difficult task before them. The 880 will be run .by Jerry Neumann, Bill Brockwell, and possibly Johnny Ross. Since Philips is competing in both of these races, probably much interest in their outcome will be evi- denced. Last weekNeumann's·amaz- ing sprint at the finish alone was worth the price of admission. Per- haps he can be persuaded to give the inhabitants of the Flower City a treat too. Although the game of \the eros- and he cal~ed for the first pract1ce . se\ still retains some of the \kill- in the ·sprmg of '24. The Garnet er\ aspects which allowed t·he \bu.tterfly chasers\ opened up w:ith ' young bucks of southern Ca-nadian .a. f1ve game schedule, encountermg , tribes to :lay each other low, the Colgate, Harvar.d,, the Bos.ton La- game has been moderately civilized. crosse C:Iub, Wi!lllams, W:h1ch was ·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;;~~~~~~~~~~~~~g Instead of 50 men being in danger a~s<> feeling out the v:ay 1~ the In- ;'! of losing some vital part of them- dian game for the ftrst time, and selves, now only 20 men have to the Syracuse Jay Vees. The last Two Mile Race Ed Basted<> and Gildo Mirate will again attempt to garner points for the Garnet squad when they race the two-mile against a reputed strong Rocl1ester entry. Rochester has a chance t<> take one-two in the mile run, although the showing of Bill Brockwell last week fore- shadows potential strength an d trouble for the lake-side boys. Joe : Milano and Clark Shields will run ' the low hurdles with Shields and · Mal Arny shaving the high timbers. · The field events will have old man fate with the Union team. It is in . this .part of the meet that Coach : Bill Ketz expects the meet to be de- · cided. If the performances are up ' to the standard of the Williams ' meet, the visitors '3hould nave a · fairly comfortable lead at the finish of the encounte~. Leon Naguszewski, :Milano and Krull, strong men of the Garnet · team, will attempt to put the shot out :far enough to take a clean Jerry Neumann made an ex- cellent sp1int to win the half mUe run against Williams. He ought to go places against the Yellowja.ekets Satnrday. worry about keeping w.hole. t-w~ games were the only ~nes . . which the Dutchmen turned mto New Yorkers Adopt Sport victoti'es, a:lth:ough their showing In northern New York State, eve1· against the winning teams was bril- in contact with the Indians through. liant, considering the inexperience business transactions or fires, the o:f the Garnet players. strange game between the savages fa:scinated the 1ocal white men wh() adopted the sport. The Fren~h traders and townspeople learned , 1 _ how to handle \lacrosse\ and trans- '· Tennis RacKets mitted taeir knowledge to enter- prising neighbors. Hobart College, the first insti tu- len nis Balls tion in New Yorl~ to have lacrosse : on its list of sports, popularized the , native \national sport\ to the ex- · ~olf S.upn. t•leS tent that the game was recognized '0' r by other colleges. A National Jn- tercollegiate Lacrosse association was organized by several institu- Baseball Goods tions playing the game in 1906, and contests were scheduled on an in- tercollegiate basis, although many-, • outside lacrosse clubs pa:rticipated ' on the calendars of the coll~g.es. · Union first became acquain±eil , with the sport in 1922 when the ve1~ satile Army athlete, Elmer Q. Oli- , phant, then director of athletics, in- · traduced it to the freshman g:yin . classes. Oliphant, who was name!l.,; the second best all round ath1Jete in : -. Crepe Sole Keds T:ennis Sho.e TRY OUR DELICIOUS TOASTED SANDWIOHES-Double Filled $1.25 TRY OUR .SPEClAL HOT PLATES~25c and up TRY OUR SALADS--Made As You Like 'Em TRY OUR STEAKS AND CHOPS-They're Always Go·od 'TRY Sunday MURRY'S Night • ••• 'l :. Alling Rubher Co. Next to the High S~hool 254 STATE ST. .......................................................... c • • • • • • • • 1 NO PROM COMPLETE U.N.LE:SS ·1:. . -~ • • II YOU STOP AT •. , • • • •• i THE UNION INN i' • • I SANDWICHES AND REFRESHMENTS 'I· • • i 517 UNION STREET ! i A. P. D.E SIENA, Prop. PHONE 4-2536 ! • • ·········:·:··········································,········· NIGHTS WERE MA-DE FG-R LGVE '. ..... a:nd there's no sense in cramp.'in.g yo,ur style in hot evening clothes- The New Whi;te Tux is the ideal blend of co,mfort a:nd fashion-cool and casual-ma.de -of The New Palm Beach with a .. cooling system\ all its own Also White Pa•lm Beach Suits- dressorsportwear ..• Shirred-back models a·nd belt backs with th:ose roo·my open shoulders- Tux Coats Suits $12.00 '$15.75 JOSEP·H'S 513 STATE STREET STAN J.OSEPH UNION •.21

·oh- ech ith, at- to be lie ball tht• nnt de- the de- up at E'ir out un1 on of l \' l' ing on. ::lt. )~(·, it l.Clt dP· HlS at- to b!' 'a of Oil at- .ns dy PI' at THE COKCORDIE::\SIS, FRrDAY, :i\IAY 3, 193!i Traclimen To Face Imposing[ Two Garnet Sophomore Sprint Men Itochester Outfit Tomorrow: -=--- Kodal\ ('ity Men Are More Formidable in Tracl~ E\·ents •~Y unu; t··t:NT0:-.1 'rhb aftt·t·noun tht' t;nion var- -ity ltaek ll':t-Bl wi'll lt•avt• for the ]~mbk city wht>tt• on tlll' following afl<'l'!lOon they wi·ll nwet lht· H.oches- ll·t· tkldmc·n I'll. th•· »eL'tllld meet of thP cUl'IPnt intl·l'('Olll'giatP st·a~on. Tlu• Yl·llowJad-:.t..'l~ ha\'l' a:-; u.-ual an t•xn·Jil•ullally 't l!lllg t·Itlllit that Will <':1\Vl' tht• Ua1'l·ll't a gtp:t\ dt·.t! o·J t, oub!P. ,Jal'iu·h Shung on Tn.1dt ThP Dutehntc•n an· t'XJH't'l<'d to lond mote• OJIJHbition in tllt' It ad\ t'\·t'nt:-, th,ut tht•y t'X.Jit'l iPnr·~·d t t llrlL \\ illtall1'; ('Oll.·t'•!tlt'lllly <'oal'h E..t :r. ,,; dt·pl'llding on lth liPid m•·n t u <.Jli'Y till' llrunt of thc> bw<.!en. litJWl.'Vl'l, dt':.JlilL' this faet, the .. hance~ of the Uarnet 1emain faul:y bright. Hince no ncc·ur:1tP tinte~ m·e .tvmlable on tlH' Huche,.;tet· n>en, it to impossible to ]l!l'dict the ou.t- t·umen of 1nuny of ,· .<' schetluled \vents. Tlw hund! ed will be run by Sherman Hitd, John Glen and Chuck Kt·ult, all of whom have been pt•t·forming well on the cinders. Hll·~t and Gll'n have done a10und Ju.4 in the time triab held by Coach 1\.etz during the last few weel\s. Kt ull',; leg whieh bothered him con- ><tclel·ably last week ha~ been re- spomling to treatnH·nt and Chuck should be able to imptove his show- mg matlu•dly. In thl' 220, Hirst and Glen will again Ill' at the mark. Both ran nicely agamst Williams finishing second and third re:; pee- lively, and with Leon Saiewitz. who will eomplete the starters, Union will have a dependable rep1 esentu.- tmn. l'hilips Outstanding sweep of the <'\'<'nt. Tht>.-•· »al!H' t ht'l'<' bur It,., wtll ht·.t\'l' t Itt· di -<'ll» for tht· \'i,;itot·s. In til\ JaVt·l!n tht ow, Al<-x Bt·zostowsi<i and Ja!'k Hlnom will agam >'<'!HI til .. sh·nd•·t shaft whi>tlin~ thitHr,:h tlH· :.11. If .Mal Griffing. <latH<'! l'apta1n. ~~ un- able to t'Il<•• part in the• llli'Pt, A!:~n Van W<>tt will makl' tlu• trii> and 111' thP tLi1d rnan in tltt• j;t'.'t'Hn uvent. Bm·ton ,Jumpln~ :'\.t•t• Enwt y 1~111 ton, ,,.n,;:q i~>n:t I Jtmiut .\tar .w.ill ''\!Ill\''''' in th•• high JlllllJ>. bro:al Jl!Ill]•. and pol .. vault. In tht> l'irst lllf't>t with \.\'illiams. Bul'lon won all tht·<'<' t'\'t•nts with t•umpata- ll\'<' t''<'t', tal,ing tht· lnua.d jlllll['l Wtl h :!tl ft 11 1 \ Ill., lht· ht:,:h WI( b :; ft. \- 1 e in. and spttmg a tll'W l'ol- l•·,c;t' l•T<Jld of 12 ft. 111', Ill Ill tlw J!Oll• v ... u!.t, Thi~ vault biolte tht· existing college record by 6 7\ in. 'When the season becomes a few· ,JOI-1:\f GI.EN HESRY HIRST Vll'eks older \Em· should be alJle! - ·-------------- to clear the bar at bt>tter· than 131 I feet. The other high jumpe!S willt J,acrosse Introduced At TT.nl·on By be Arny, Bloom and Hughes, all of 1 • V J whom tied fort hird lust week, Hir:;t 1 • and Bloom Will al;;o be entl'ted in' Ol11p·'z·ant •re ... ~att.le Army Ath\' lete the broad jump. Jack ha;; ,;(n•tehC'd !- :f, · ' t' l 1 O himself 20 ft. over term firma in 1 -- --·------ JH<;Ietice but could nut get enough; H~ HY:H.\::\' A. :t:XZI·:R height last wee]{ and failed to· Fifty nalwd and ~ctl'aming Indi- Am<'twa, with Jim Thot·pp ftt:4, rl'- qualify. If Griffing'~ ]pg is not bet- 1 an\ u,;ctl to play bdDtt• tlH·ir at!-· 'n..;n•·tl ftolll ht~ dutte:J in l\124 wh,·n tet· b:,· tomorrow, Van \Vert will be' miting n·latil'<'\ at n tlue\ ,,. foUl t!lt• ~arne of lacro,;se was mmle a the only othe1 pole-toter to compete' hour ~tt Ptch ovt·r a cout>'L' that t·x- minot \i>\tt by hi,; sanction. TlH· in the vault. , tt•ndPd ft nm 5(11) yu 1 <i;; to half a f<~ll nf ·~3 had been a bu~y one for 1 milP, catclllng and throwing a ,;mall active a;.;Jtator,., for lac! o:;sP, and ------- --------- - ----- 1 hau·-:-,t'Ufft•d hall in ont• of tht 11 thP followtn~ yea1 thP f:tUdPnt:-: I regula!' Iarrosst• game\· and Ia- vot~e<l to add it to the college li~t. no~~e conte«t,; us play<'<l today by \'Ictm· !:'tat'ZPn~ki, form<'!' :;tat· of student;; in co'lleg-<>s and pn·p ::lt•·vens Tceh was appointed coarh ~chools ar·e called !tgor·ous~ of thP nt>w activity at the college, Jl\on the llalf Mile , Althoug-h Lhe ~am<• of \thP e 1 m;-. and he callPd for thP first practice Entry Blanl,; l.bt' t•Uti :111t ... uft•·r t·:tch t'\'( J.;t ~lc IUlwr :-- of t'ht· \·a1 :~tty fr;\lll ;t I • 11•,1 t'lJgl'blt· E\·t·nt. b··....:1n ]d»lltptlyat I:Jn p 111. Enlit•· It•ll\t ht· 111 hv :'\1(JJlfl~~)· nooll. Clr1•· Juan rnay •·nt•·r •d.!~· t b1•·•· • \'t•t\t:-- :'\:trnt· <,f t)rganiz:ttliJll !till yd da.- i: :!:!fl-yd daclt t II• ,.d run ... ...... yd run ]:!J·-~ d liJ\V hur dl,·- High .iurnp P, l1J.Hi JU!ll!J Five ,\eu· R.ec~rd llolder Emer;r Burt·on, \\·Ito broke Uw pol!• \'ault rt•t'Ol'd as well as taking fin,t plac!'s in the high and lm>ad jumps ngainot \\'ll- liam ... last :-;atu.rdas. YOU CAN ALWAYS GET IT AT B~RANDHORSTS BRANDHORSTS' PHARMACY \On the Corner\ Union St. and Gillespie Edw. H. Brandhorst. Reg. Phar. Leland E. Brandhorst, Reg. Phar. Judging f1·om ali ll'f.IUI b. H.uc hc:;- ll'l' wil !have an edge in both the -140 and the half mile. Philips, who is entered in both 1 al'e~. i~ 1·eputed to be the mo~t outstanding r·unner the Yelluwjacket~ have pre:sented in many yeut :;, Running for t:mun in the quat·tpr mile will be the san1.e gToup that astounded the funs by mnning Wood of Williams into- the gr·otmd and then having enough left to go on and take both first and second plaee,, Tomonuw when they o-tack up again;;t PhiltJ>S, thooe ein-1 der ;;huffier~. Jacl' Russ, Vi Fryer, ami \Vally Hughes will find an even. more difficult task befot e them. 'fhl' : xxo will be nm .by Jeny Neumann, '1 Bill Brocltwell, ami possibly Johnny Hos~. Since Philips is competing in both of these 1 aces, probably 1nuch interest in their outcome will be evi- denced. Lust week NPumann's anm.2- ing- sprint at .(ltp finish alone wa:; worth the p1ice of admission. Per- haps he can be persuaded to give thP inhabitants of the Flower City a treat too. 1 ~e\ still r-etain:,; some of th<' \l in th<• spt mg- of '24. The Garnet Pt\ aspect~ which allowPd the \butt<·t fly clla~Pr~\ opened up with young- budt,.; of ~\utlwrn Canadian a fivr· L:H.lll<' ,;chedule. encountt·I ing tribes to lay Pach oth 1 ·r low, the C\lgat .. , Harvard, the Boston La- gamP has bt•en modP!UtPIJ,' rl\'iltZPd CIO''\<' Club, \\'tlliams. whieh wa~ In~tt.:\~Hl ut ju Illt'll bt· 1 ng 1n <.langei :tl:-:D ft·t lin~ out thP \.~·ay ii_l tlw· In-1_-==-=~-~-~-~-=-~-='=-~-========~===~-~-=--=-=--=-=-~-=--~-=-===~- . u. f los in~ wn:!' vital ]lUI t of tli< Ill-. dla.n .c:_ame _tor .tl~(' rn:.t t1 ffiP: an~d I' '- Two 1\llile Rae{' Ed Bn:;tedo .and Gilda Mirate will again attempt to garner points for the Garnet ~quad when they race the two-mile ngain~t a reputed strong Rochester entt·y. Rochester has a chance to take one-two in the mile run, although the showing of Bill Brockwell last week fore- shadows potential st1 ength and trouble for .the lake-side boys. Joe :\lilano and Clark Shields will run the low hutdles with Shields and Mal Arny shaving the high timbers. The field events will have old man fate with the Union team. It is in this part of the meet that Coach Bill Kelz expects the meet to be de- cided. If the performances are up to the standard of the \Villiarns meet, the vi:;ilors should have a fairly comfortable lead at the finish ~>f the encounter. ,Jerry Nt>umann madE> an E'X- cellent sprint to win the half mile rtm against Williams. Ht' ought to go places against tile Yellowjaclif'ts Satw·day. selves, now unl\' ::11 trtl'n ha\'t• 1 , 1 th< ~) tacu.E:' Jd) \ee\ TlH Ia. t , wony about ke;·pmg ~.<.holl'. two ;.:amt•s Wt•IP the only o.nt·~ 1 •. 1 . which tlw Dutchmen turned into I : :\ft•w \or 'Prs Adopt Sport . \'1('\ot'ies, although thE>it· show in~ I In nottl'wrn New Yo1 k ;,;tat<', t'\'t't a~ain>t the winning t•·ants wa\ bnl-1' in c. on tact with the I tHlian~tht ough ltant. considering the inexperience bus1ne:o,; UansarttOns ut f:n·,.:, th•· of tlw GnrnPt player~. Stl·ange gflfill' bet\\\'et.>l1 tiLL' :-;aVag-t• .... fascinatecl the local white nll'!l wllo adopted the ;;·port. 'Tlw Ft Pnch' , trade!,.; und town' p('(>]Ile !eat nul how to Ita ntlle \Ia (')()~;e\ and twn~- Tennis Rackets mitted th.·u· knu\\h•dgt• to l'ni<'I'- prbin)..; nei~-:hbors. Hohmt lollegr. th•· fir:,;t in•ti!u- Tennis Balls tlun in Nt·W Yol'lt to ha\'P lar·,o.:.:~l' on it,; li:<t of >pOI t,, populat izcd t bt> native \national spott\ to thP ex· G If S I' tent thut the ganH· wa~ l'<'eognizl'd 0 Upp leS , by otht•t col!t·gn;, A ::-;a,tionul ln- t'...'l collPgiatP l.~~H'! o:-::~£· assoc1at loll was utgamz,.,, by ,..,.\.Pral ins11tu- Baseball Goods lions playin~ tlw gam•· in 190ti, a11d contP~ts v.ell' sl'lu'liuled on rtn in tetcollegiatl' basi:;, although many outside !aero'\\ clubs pat ticipated on the calmdan of the colleges. Union f1r:;t became acquainted with the spot! in 1922 when the vl'r- satile Army athletr, Elmer Q. Oli- phant, then directm· of athletics, in- troduced it to the freshman gym, clas,es. Oliphant. who was named the srcond best all round athlete in, IIIII 81 Crepe Sole Keds Tennis Shoe TRY Ot\R DELICIOUS TOASTED SANDV\'ICHEl'l-Doulilf' Fillf'd TRY OUR SPECIAL HOT PLATES-25c and up TRY OCR SALADS-Made As You Lilte 'Em TRY OUR STEAKS AND CHOPS-They'r!' Alwa~·s Good TRY Sunday MURRY'S Night •• Alling Rubber Co. !\eon Nagu;;zewski, Milano and N t t th H\ 1 S h I Krull .. strong men of the Gmnet ex 0 e lg 1 c: 00 I 254 STATE ST. team, will attempt to put the shot out far enough to take a clean ·-- .. ··- ·- - ' --~~. •••-•••••••m• •• •••••• • a •• •••• ~~·-•i••·•~••••·-•••••• ••••••••I • • ! NO PROM COMPLETE UNLESS i • • I YOU STOP AT = • • i THE UNION INN § 1 • • : SANDWICHES AND REFRESHMENTS : • • i 517 UNION STREET E • • 5 A. P. DE SIENA, Prop. PHONE 4-2536 ! NIGHTS WERE MADE FOR LOVE .... and there's no sense in cramping your style in hot evening clothes- The Wew White Tux is the ideal blend of comfort and fashion-cool and casual-made of The New Palm Beach with a \cooling system\ all its own Also White Palm Beach Suits- dress or sport wear ... Shirred-back models and belt backs with those roomy open shoulders- Tux Coats Suits $12~00 $15.75 JOSEPH'S 513 STATE STREET STAN JOSEPH UNION '21 • •I ·······················································••i~~======================~==~

..• SiX THE ·c(}NCORDIENSIS, FREDAY, MAY 3, 1935 Mountebanks End Their Busy Season With \12th Night\ Heads Players Publicati9ns Board Names Garnet, . Union Will will take place in Troy. Saturday ....... ,.,.,. ...... u. . .a;~ morning and anernoon wlll be de- Ido1 Staffs, Concordiensis Manager A.lE.E., voted to technical sessions, Papers will be presented by representatives from all the institutions mentioned above. At the conclusion of these ~~'----------------------------- Nelson Is :Business Manage1· Of Concmdiensis; Orton And Kmd on Garnet New .Business Manager : Student Chapter Participa. · sessions, pl'izes will be awarded for · the ,best paper.s. Saturday evening, : a member of the Byrd Antartic Ex- :. pedition will speak on the use of ·electricity in Little America:. Production of Shakespeare's Play Next Week Climaxes Year of Development Expanded Activities The editorial and business staffs of the Gamet and idol a,nd the . business manag-er of the Concordi- ensis were elected at a special meet- • . Wednesday- aftern<Jon of the Publications Board. A revision of the 19-37 Garnet In An111Ial 1\leeting For First Time Seven Union stu.dents will go Troy this weekend. to take part · the student conv-ention ()f the ican Institute of Electrical· neevs at Rensslaer- Polytechn:io stitute. Besides Union and R. P Cornell, M. I. T., Yale, a:nd ·:m::::;:::::::::::::::;::m::::::m:::m:::::::::::::::m:;::::;:: BOB'S B·ookshop BOOKS New, Old, Rare and Fine Press Road Tours, Radio Broadcasts, Exchang·es Instituted; Get Improved Equipment taff, adding a fourth man, to the ·board, was .pr,op.osed in a motion by Burton DeLack:. ''35, .pa-st Business . Manager. Its •a<Jcept.ance establish- ed the followlng·of·fices to be filled . cester Polytecltnic IILstitute will ·b ~MAGAZINE BACK NUMBERS represented at tll!s Cl<lnvention. ·From t·he Publishers By RALPH COHEN GEORGE W. STROEBEL, JR. by these men: John E. Knauf, Edi- When the Mountebanks present tor-in-Chief; Julian V. D. Orton, Shakespeare's \Twelfth Night\ be- Business Manager; ·Marvin Katz, ginning next ·Fl•iday night in their Fox, F ... ·ledma·n Na·med To Managing Edit-or; and Frank B. campus theatre, they wHI have - .._ Gatchell, Photographic Editor, aU brought to a close their busiest Phi Beta Kapna Society· of the class of J.937. season under Director Edward L. I:\ The object o~ making the change, Carroll and the most outstanding in --- it was explained, was .to relieve the all the 131 years of the dramatics Austin M. Fox and Ore! J. Fvied- editor-in-chief of the ·voutine of col- at Union College. ma,n, both of the senior class, were lecting and correcting copy, and to The 1934-35 term has brought the elected Wednesday to the Phi Beta· allow a more complete organization Mountebanks to the fore among Kappa Society. This has been the of the staff. \l'h.e newly c-reated non-athletic extra-curricular activi- first year in which the new system position of Pbot<>graphic Editor will ties. With more active participants f choosing men in October as well entail the taking·of a.U pictures and· than any other activity and one of after the third marking period other art worlt, leaving. the Manag- the largest budgets, it bas expanded been in effect. ing Editor to ·relieve the Editor-in- its work to include radio broadcasts, Austin Fox is a member of the Chief of the Vlork <>f collecting and road tours and the sponsoring of Student Council and the Terrace correcting co:py~ other dramatic organizations in ad- Council, the Idol Board and the :Nelson Business Manager dition to the regular presentation Hale Club. A prominent athlete, he Also at the Ineeting Robert Nel- of their own plays. on the varsity tennis team and son '36 was cll.osen as Business Women Play Female Parts was captain of footlba!J in his jun- Manager of th.e C<>ncordiensis to To the eyes of the audience, the ior year. He is affiliated with the succeed William. J.i\itzgerald. The greatest change took place in the Psi UpsHon fraternity. Publications Beard accepted t)J.e bringing of women back to the Ore! Friedman, a member of nomination of Harold Vandecar, Hanna Hall stage after an absence ~appa Nu _fraternity, is .prominent James Righter, Richard Vosburg, of seven years. a policy that met m d~amati~ work havmg taken and Paul Ja.quet, all members of with unqualified success. But theve part m various Mountebanks pro- the sophomore class, and elected have . been many more important ductions including \A Bold Stroke them to the Junior Business Board. changes among the actors and the for a Wife:• and being a member The Idol Staff fo:r next year was stage crew which can only be seen of the Studio ~laye:;s. He h~s been also elected. ft()bert S. Langer '36 through the effects they have bad on the Dean s List consistently ·was elected successor to William S. on productwn. and was 3; re:t:orter for The Con- ·McCord as laditor-in-Chief and The season was opened with the · m his freshman year. Burton B. DeLaclt '36, Business Those who plan to attend .rrolm·o•c., STAMPS AND ACCESSORiES · Union are Vinc6'llt Doyle, Fo~ Collectors · Eames, C, Malcolm .r<ll<.J•.u.~~~ iam Lea:hy, and Eenneth a:U of the class of ':!5, and' [ey Plummer an<!' Eowa.rd RENTAL LiBRARY ,Fiction and Non-Fiction MAGAZINE SUBSCRIFTIONS ·For Domestic and Foreign Publi- cations · the class of !3ti. 1:Jnion!s part discussion will be taken by neth Mathes, viith :a ,paJ)er on linear Resonant Circuits/' Bradley Plunnnet•, 'Wit.h· one ; ~ GREETING CARDS ·For All Occasions Sell Your Old Books to \The Design of Ant:en.ua. \''•o\''~ • Systems,\ On Friday tim engineers wlll visit • Schenectady for an 'inspection tour . . of the Genera:l Electric L:cuJUI'!i.L'uL BOB'S .B,ookshop .135 Broadway Bookshop 'Round the Corner Except for this tri]> ROBERT 0. NELSON , luncheon, howevet·, the :::;:::m:::::::m:::::::m::m:::::::m::::::::m:::::m:::::::i Manager in the place of Edmund F. Stoll '35. The Associate ·ill«11tlor~!J of the literary magazine are Robert C. North '36, Donald T~umbul! '36, Duane Featherstonaugh '36, Ferdi- nand Helm '37 and John Davis '37. The financial conditions of the three publications were discussed ·and indicated again in the The Idol treasury and a favorable position in the other two. Fitzgerald raised · the objection that the reason The Concordiensis did not do better ancially was that the budget was impossibly high and could never be reached under or- dinary conditions. THE TUTORIN'G SCHOOL CHARLES R. PITTS, B.S., M.S., Special ins+rudio~ given. in prepara+ion for College Exams, for New York Sta:l-e Regents, Co'llege Entrance Boards, WestPoint and Annapolis Examinations. 271 STA1E ST. TEL. 4-3785 or 2-6352-M :::·::_.::···: .. ; .. ,•: pr<>duction, in .November, of a re- vival of the eighteenth century comedy, Mrs. Centlivre's \.A. Bold Stroke for a Wife,\ first produced on the campus in 1804 by members of the then senior class. So popular has the play become on the campus and on the road at Hudson Falls and Albany that numerous requests have been made for a revival, and the Mountebanks may send it out on the road again within the next two years. To lone:liness-1 bring compan1ionship The climax of the season came late in March w.hen Ibsen's \Ghosts\ was produced with Dverwhelming success. The unusually small cast spent over 200 hours apiece in grouj) rehearsal, often rehearsing as many as eight or nine .times a week. The result of the long work with lines and lighting and staging was a play that was given high praise by all audiences from the student group at Union and Skidmore to the more adult audiences at the Bethlehem Central High School in Delmar and the Albany Boy's Academy. Broadcast Plays Outside of :Hanna Hall, the Mountebanks will have made six road trips by the end of the month, regular monthly radio broadcasts have been given, an annual .inter- change of plays with Skidmore Col- lege started, and the Columbia Laboratory Players brought to the campus in their revival of John Howard Payne's \Clarl or the Maid of Milan.\ In the theatre itself, the new switchboard designed and built by students was put into actual opera- tion, new dressing rooms were in- stalled under the .stage, new talent was uncovered, b<>th in the acting and staging departments, and a new policy of back-of-the-house manage- ment was inaugurated. The organization's plans for next year are equally as ambitious~ Di- rector Carroll is considering the production of \Undle Tom's Cabin,\ George Bernhard Shaw's \St. Joan\ and Nieolai Gogel's \Inspection-Gen- 1 eral.\ The Mountebanks will take even a more significant place in stu- dent life because their theatre will be used a.s the la.b6ratory of the new play-production course under Mr. Carroll. The difficulty encountered in road trips coming in the middle of the school term, conflicting with students' scholastic work and the procuring of appearance at other colleges may be overcome by a pro- posal to change the dates of pro- ductions so that they will coincide with the vacation periods, t() give the group a chance to tour more widely. This year, casts appearing in one play were forced to keep re- hearsing anothe1· play which they were going to take on tour Jong after the end of the three regular campus. performances. Players o-n the R()ad Perhaps the most important achievement of the season has been the beginning of ·the practice of taking regular road tours. At the .cost of much extra time spent by the director, the actors, the crew and the business staff, two trips were made to Albany Academy, and one each to Delmar, Skidmore and Hudson Falls. Under the direction of Graduate Manager Milton M. En- zer, the business staff spent many hours a week arranging for appear- ances, writing publicity, planning advertising and arranging for ac- comodations for the casts. Fore- most among the business staff (Continued on Page 8) /~-- / ' ···-:· ' m I am a friend indeed. A better friend than others, because I am made only of mild, fra- grant, expensive center leaves. I don't permit a single sharp top leaf nor a single coarse bot- tom leaf to mar my g-ood taste or my uniform mildness. I do not irritate. To loneliness I bring companionshi.P. I a.rn the best of friends. TUNE IN-Luclties are ou the air Saturdays, with THE fll'l' PARADE, over NBC Netwotk 8 to !)p, m, E. D. S. T, ·::~·. :-.·. • ··:- Ell Op Si~ Che1 b1 'Urg B: Th of Si at a staHe ampt EHer and ary the I In insta chap Xi is than knoV~ read; Smit colle: bran tabli: of S large gene forw is ar. lege, scie11 men1 pres! acte1 scier. the the : telli~ polit \I1 nor nor ther• is th war< chiel and legis kill ' \T and Whi Mon tion said. mor1 impl of ~ prol: ulat' may men nom \'I -th the -WI nine abm fore the Thif com The com anc• neeJ eng: iner in res€ dist the I R 0 fi G ir fl si IE a tl c· a e i1 1« r a s s v t v

de- pers for Ex- of Ellery Spea.ks At Opening of. Smith . Sigma Xi Chapter Chemistry Professor Helps To Install First Chapter At · Any Women's Coll~ge Science Is Cooperative THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 3, 1935 New Language Professors Seniors Are Urged To Pay Class Dues Rhoades, Graduate Council-· man, Says Class Levy :Brings Many Benefits Malcolm Rhoades, recently elected representative of the class of 1935 to the Graduate Council, in a state- ment issued yesterday, ur·ged all seniors to pay their dues promptly. According to Rheades, \The im- portance of graduate organization cannot be overemphasized. For the good of alumni and college alilte such organization with its com- Senior Du.es Due- The members of Ute senior class are reminded that class dues for the year 1935-1936, amounting to $3, should be paid before .graduation. Seniors liv- ing in fraternity houses may either give their dues to the heads · of their fraternities or malte some other arrangements m their houses. Commuters can pay their dues either to Ted Whipple at the Chi Psi Lodge or to Malcolm Rhoades at the Delta Upsilon House between the hours of 12 and 1 or 6 and 7. In the dormitories, Leonard Eisenbud and Marion Bookout will collect the dues. Seven Definition The cadets at Virginia Military Institute have finally defined here- dity-It is something a father be- lieves in until his son starts to act like a fool . FLOWERS FOR 'Urge to Know Is Not Bound By Sex, Race 3 or Creed' Declares Dr. Ellery The first branch of the Society:, of Sigma ~l, ever to be et-.tabHsh.ed .. at a college for wemen, was m- . ,ponent class organization is abso- --------------- :lutely necessary. As, unhappily, no ...---------------, organization can run efficiently The Week-End Dances staHed at Smith College at North- . ampton, Mass., when Dr. Edward Ellery, professor ·of chemistry here and National Secretary of horner-. ary scientific fraternity delivered the principal addre:::1. In his ·talk, Dr. Ellery said, \The installation of the Smith College chapter of the Society of the Sigma Xi is significant of something more, than the mere addition of a wen-·. known group of scientists to an al-• ready distinguished company. Smith College is the first of the colleges for women in which a: branch of this famous society is es-· tablished, but neither the officers of Sigma Xi, nor the society at. large, nor the world of science in. general thinks of the ~vent a~ a forward movement. The oceas1,on is an important one for Smith Col-. lege and for the society and for scie~ce not as a forward' move- ment, 'but as another public ex- Dr. George H. Danton, head of the German department at Oberlin College and Mr. George Berna1'd Raser III, instructor of romance languages at Harvard, will fill the vacancies in the Union staff made by the retirement of Professor Robert W. ·Crowell and Professor Ferdinand Ja.gu. Dr. Danton, who is an author of note, has had wide experience in teaching since his .graduation from Columbia, and has 'been de- corated 'bY the President of the Chinese Republic for his work in Chinese Education. He was the Austin teaching fellow at Harvard, the Ottendorfer memorial fellow from N.Y. U. to Berlin and .Munich, instructor at Western Reserve University, Tsing Hua University <Peking), exchange professor at N. Y. U., and visiting professor at the University Leipzig. Mr. Raser was exchange student to Germany for two years, and has held fell<>wships from Harvard for two years. A graduate of the University of Pennsylvania, he obtained his master's degree from Harvard in 1929 and will receive his doetmate from the Cambridge institution in June. · without funds, each alumnus is ex- pected to contribute to the expenses · of his class. The college, recogniz- ing the value of such organization in graduate classes, has given all aid possible to facilitate the work of the Graduate Council representa- 'tive. To partly reimbuse the col- lege, each class is required to pay $30 the first year after graduation. In the following years, each class has to pay $20 as its share in the Commencement and College Day .expenses.\ · Half for Magazine Rhoades continued, \One half of · each fee is given to the Graduate Council as a year's subscription to the .Alumni Monthly. This rnaga- . zine, as we all knew, performs the · valuable function of keeping the graduate in touch with activities of the college and the alumni. With the remainder, a surplus is built up .so that reunions are made as inex- pensive as possible.\ In conclusion, Rhoades sa i d, pression of the impr.essi\ve char- for output of research so much as acteristic of science, namely that· for thorough scientific training for science is a cooperative enterprise; a later university career; and now the achievements of science are tonight in a college exclusively for the results of collective human in- women, with a well-ltnown science telligence, just as are social and faculty, six of whose students in political and religious movements. the last two years were cited by the Inne1• Urge To Know society of the Sigma Xi for excel- Philip Smith Engagement To Miss Collie Announced \Seniors if for no other reasen than for pride in your class, pay your dues. The class of 1935 has already distinguished itself during its four years in college; let it, therefore, The engagement of Miss Sarah ·enter into alumni ranks with such Munro Collie to Philip Allerton an efficient organization that it may Smith, instructor in English, was soon make itself known as the class \In science there is neither man lence in research. announced Tuesday evening by among all Union classes.\ Miss Collie's parents. Dr. and Mrs. Roy Munro Collie, at a reception on the occasion of their 25th wed- nor woman, nor youth nor age, nor nation nor race nor creed-i there is only intelligence. Science is the outward exhibition of the in· ward urge to lmow which is the chief quality of the human mind and spirit, which neither act of legislature nor edict of ruler can kill or permanently repress. \This urge to know was tersely and adequately- described by Dr. Whitney . . . in the Atlantic Monthly: 'The only perpetual mo- tion is the gt·owth of truth,' he said. For a hundred years and more the growth of truth has been impressively evident in the realm of science and it may easily be, probably will be, that out of accum- ulation of this ltind of knowledge may issue eventually vast improve- ments in the human social and eco- nomic and moral religious order. Gmwth Inevitable \These · characteristics of science -that its growth is inevitable and the result of collective intelligence -were in the minds of a group of nine engineers and a geologist about a half century ago, long be- fore they- had found expression in the wot•ld of science in general. This small group called themselves companions in zealous research. The cornbined idea of research and companionship found ready accep~­ ance at first in schools of engi- neering or in institutions in which engineering training was prom- inent part of the curriculum; t}len in universities which emphasized research work in pure science as distinguised from applied science i , then in small colleges ltnown not Report of Committee On Rushing Re-vision We the committee invest- igati~g- ways and mean~ of i;m- provino- rushing relationshipS at Uni~n College, find it impos- sible to suggest a system for arranging dates for f~es~men without involving an llltncate system of rushing rules. In view of the opinion against any such regulation we malte the fol- lowing general recorone;nda- tions for improving the srtua- tion at Union College: 1. That a fraternity be de- fined as an organization with .a Greek-letter name, merobers!tlP in which exdudes a student from affiliation with any other similar organiza:tion at this col- lege. h •t• 2. That the college aut on .tes adopt the policy of discouragmg the founding of any J()eals or chapters of national fraternities at Union College. a. 'That pre-season rushing be encouraged among the fratern- ities now existing at Union Col- lege. 4. That no fraternity shall rush a man already pledged to another fraternity. 5. Tl.lat fraternities hold joint social gatherings, sucn as smokers and beer parties, which will serve to create bet- ter understanding among the various groups. (Signed) JOSEPH A. WOOLMAN, Chairman THORNTON W. WHIPPLE LEWIS 0. THEURER. Development of Sigma Xi f ding anniversary, \The Society of the Sigma Xi or Miss Collie is a graduat.:l of the fifty years has continuously ex- Brown School, Sarah Lawrence pressed' its fundamental priciples- College in 1930 , Wellesley College · research and companionship. It in 1932, and has studied at the Uni- has expanded from a membership versity of Geneva in Switzerland. of ten individuals in one university She is a member of the Junior in ene state to branches in sixty- League of Schenectady. six educational and reseai:ch in this Mr. Smith, son of Mrs. John A. country and Canada, with a total Pierson of Portsmouth, N. H., membership of 27,000, distributed in graduated from Bowdoin College in 55 countries of the world. For the 1929 and r[;ceived his master's de- first quarter century of its history, gree at Harvard in 1930, where he the society could. with difficu.lt~ pay was a Charles Carroll Evereet t?e exp~nses of I~s own admmrstra- scholar. He is affiliated with the tton. Smce.192~ It has been award- zeta Psi fraternity. ing grants m aid of research each year, and beginning in 1936, and an- -;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;~ nually thereafter, will award two r. prizes of $1,000 each to individuals in recognition of what they are do- ing in science. This is the present day Society of the Sigma Xi, which tonight accepts the invitation to enter Smith College.\ FROST.& REYNOLDS Printers 430 SMITH ST. Fraternity Printing a Specialty SHAW-WALliER OFFICE EQUIPJ.\IENT Here's hoping MEET and EAT at the LEROY RESTAURANT LUNCHES, MEALS and BEST DRINKS \'House of Quality .. OPP- GREEN GATE lii7 NottSt, L. Edelman, Prop. You raise the dickens And don't get in •til Rooster Calls the chickens Schenectady's Popular Rendezvous COLD I s Restaurant -Taproom -Delicatessen 631 State Street SPORT CLOTHES Ill. Now is the time to get fitted out for the warm weather 1111 111!1 TROUSERS COATS SWEATERS SHIRTS NECKWEAR ·• Ill Clothes by HART.:SCHAFFNER & MARX and MALLORY HATS •• VI NICKS Men's Shop St Near Clinton St. 467 State • Next to Llggetts PARK LAUNDRY, INC. 105 Clinton St- (Labor Temple) PHONE 4-9011 FLORAL SHOP Overhead Crossing State St. PHONE 4-6444 NEW SONG HITS ON VICTO·R RECORDS H. S~~ BARNEY CO. SCHENECTADY'S GREATEST STORE A reporter for a metropolitan daily asked a num· her of persons on the street, ~~What is the biggest buy for a nickel?\ Two-thirds promptly replied, ~~A tele- nhone call.\ ... Americans throughout the country evidently agree with this judgment of value received from the tele· phone. For each day they hold more than 57,000,000 conversations over Bell System wires. • •• ·.Why ~.;t.teiephone· home one night~a~h-~ · .. we.ek? For, borgqin rates, ~all b) nvniher_ • o'fter 8.:30 P, M, ' .. : Year after year Bell System planning extends the telephone's reach -increases its speed- makes it more conve· nient, more valuable to everyb1r}dy. BEI..L TELEPHONE SVSTEM

i I I ,• Eight THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 3,.1935 ···!, _______________________ __,.._.''Politics) Parties, and Platforms,' Snyder Is Appointed Head ~~:i~!~:t~~~:~~~:e~~ i~:n:,.~:b~ O:f Model League .O~legation: ·of the Alpha Delta Phi fraternity M t th C I . • ts I'TJl.. £'t ,e. D T b D t -a:nd Is a resident of .St. Pau~, Min- • ·· ee · e o .umms · · 1.ne \.!USe tOr .t\armer-ua or .c'(lr y nesota. Richard C. Snyder '37, was ap- Casimir Ruszkowski has been a Farrago G1·ab Bag ANDREW POGGENPOHL HARRY M. BAiiER Editor's Note: This is the fourth of a se.•ies of exclusive ai·tiqles on the progmms of the major political pa1'ties wlit~n by their naf;iomil chainnen for the Associated Collegiate Fress. By ROY l'ri. HA:RROP The college youth is broaght face . to face today to economic Itfe that, according to his teachings,, is .ba.$ed upon an economic. delusicm~a Tie and a snare, for, having acquired his education, he finds himself in a· world .of unemployed and with ;no : hopes under the present political . · and economic setup outside of t;':he . forces combined in the Farmer-·' Labor party, the Socialist party, t~e:' Progressive group of Wisconsin, the ~ Liberty party and the Technocratic :groups, which have a ~ubstantial. · following and who propose to pro- vide a new pollticaJ party which will be a United Peoples party. . Andrew Poggenpoh'i, better Harry M. Baker, or just plain Unity is essential if the battle. known as Andy, who has been abl;y Bake to his friends and brother ·poverty, insecurity, a11d a system filling the shoes of john Roberts Chi Psi's, is Union's equiva:lerit of 'which fosters them, is to be won. '34, as author of :t'an-ago, can tell the arm chair pllilosopher and com- 'l'he American Collegiate Youth, harrowing stories about the Russ· mentalor. He sits back at OHe of representing its common .interests, ian Revolution, from which he- his many desks, watches the pass- must help to win back political escaped with his family to Con· · ing show of college life, dnd makes· power over this country, which has stantinople in 1917. But this ad· his oiiily acid comments. Bake denied to them economic freedom venturous childhood is 11ot reflect- began the gentle art of colurnning and an opportunity to apply the ed in his column which is devoted last spring with a series called Oil education they have acquired. to humor and satire of a wide I Heard by one, lnchwell. How- Our present-day economic liie is variety, ranging from learned lit- ever, he soon changed into a sort of based upon a false economic plan. erary and dramatic criticism to Santa Cll:l.us named GeeBee, and That is, namely, that the issue .of clever verse parodies and vieled who every Frida_y pulled spicy bits money must .be controlled by,private Rabelaisian witticisms. of gos~ip out of the Grab Bag. individuals, they to be allowed the Farrago has caused the editors to Bake has a happy faculty for power .to set up a standard of value scratch their heads many times, maldng his riske allusions so subt- contrary to the constitution of the trying to decide what is humor and ly di::;gui>:led that even the editors United States, which says that Con- what is bad taste. But the biggest can't see the point. In this way, gress must issue the money and furor came after the appearance the chmsen few E>njoy the joke, and create the value thereof, and of for- of a seemingly innocuous column of Mrs. Grundy does not complain. eign coins, and establish a uniofrm jibes against the local Rotary Club. But he ha::; been the cause of a feW standard of :weights and measures. At the beginning of the term, editorial gray hairs on several oc- Today we find the American pea- pointed chairman of next year's constant member of the Dean's List tion,al ·debts. It authorizes the delegation to the Model Assembly: for the past two years and as a establishment of Postal Savings of the League of Nations1 it Wl!lS. an- freshman was ln the highest divi- Banks in el;lch postoff.ice to ac- nounced today by Dv. Philip sion. Ruszkowski' is a resident of cept deposits anc:l permit check\- , M(lseley, faculty adviser to the Schen:ec~!l,dy. . ing accounts without limiting: ,group.· To the four 1/acanci:\ls le~t Jobn Wold, plti.yed, Ol). the f.refih- a.r:nounts. It guarantees to the ·py graduating members of this man, hockey teain, has )Jeen on tl)e farmer the cost of production: year's delegation Van Vechten Dean's i..fst throughout . the yea:r plus a reasonable profit as a re-i. Trumbull '36, Carlton M. 'Garl'ison and is the wipner of the Van. O!'den turn upon his investment, It per-: '3'7,. Casimir Ruszkowski '3'1,. and ·;...P .... r_iz_e .... :..,.._...,.... ...... _ ..... _.. __ ..._.....,_~ mits public works measures, local, John S, Wold '38, were appointed. impr.ovements and redemption of·: Van Vechten Trumbull is editor- all· outstanding bond issues, and . lri-cl:lief of the -Cop.corc;liensis, and the final wi:ping nut .of all debt. :has. just recently been elected\ to 2. u n em pI o y men t, Veterans. the Hale .Club. As a. ft•eshman he BoP,us, Debtors and other Rellef. , was p~estdent o~ h1s class and It would a;dopt measures to per- ; play~d m -seve1~al Moun teb~nks plO- mit the employment of evet·y , d'\l~tio,ns. Durmg the yea:1 ~93_2 to able\bodied citizen in the United · 1933 'I rum bull was a member or the •States, .t):lus :affording· an oppor- Student Council .. He .is ~ member tunity for tlle collegiate youth to of .the Delta Phr fratern:1ty and a secure employment upoi:r .the . ·resident of Sch~nect.ady, . American standard .and our aim . Ca!•lton G\).tl'ISOn 1s a membet O,i is to· so pevelop projects of pubiic · the J.unioT Bocu:d of the Concordt- works, and local improvements that would permit eve,ry family 1 to earn at least $5,000 per year and provide a home of at least , $10,000 in value, which would t>e free from all taxation. 3. P1,1blic and Private Ownership. : We propose measures to accom- i pllsh the following: (.1) Govern-! ment Ownership of railroads and: other means of transportation, : telegraph, telephone, cable lines · and radio facilities. (2) Other; public utilities, including power,; light, heat and water to be owned .by local m· state authorities or; where necessary by the Federal ; Government. · 4. Labor. Public Works and a six-hour day and a minimum : wage of 2.50 per hour, and a fi.ve- day week, to be paid in full legal . tender cur1'ency issued by Con-: gress. Reduce working hours, establish a reduced number of working boUt'S per day in private industry in order to reduce un- employment. Abolish exploitation of convict labor. Stop yellow-dog contracts by making them unen- forcible in Federal and State Courts. Pt:oh1bit by l!J.W injunc- ! tions in la,bor disputes. 5. Taxation. Abolish all taxation except on unea·rned' -Incomes In excess of ten thousand dollars •per year. Impose an excess profit tax on all business ;profits on mon<>polistic enterprises. Make it impossible fm· any person to have an: Income of more than ~500;000 per year. 6 .. Amendments to Constitution. Amend the Constitl}:tion of the United States. (1) By the aboli- tion of the electoral college. De- cide presidential ell)ctions by popular vote .. (2) A·bolish all dis· trict federal judges a:nd deny tht Sup1·eme Court power to declan acts of Congress uncortstitutiona. and take away from the Prsei· dent of the United States the power to veto measures passed by Congress. <3) Provide an in- itiative and referendmn and re- call on any subject. The above program should ap- peal to the college youth of Amer- ica because they are students of political economy. OiNE DAY SERVICiE ANY DAY Get You.r Suits Cleane·d and Presse·d NOW! 633 STATE ST. PHONE 2-3456 Andy used to sign his column with casions when the Grab Bag- was pie living in a debtors' prison, en- random initial leters. But soon a handed in just before the editorial slaved to the shackles of credit, and few sharp-eyed readers discovered page went to press. until these shackles are removed that these letters put together· Perhaps this llabit of waiting till from American industry and agri- spelled out a message about a gir·l the last minute comes from Bake's culture there can never be a settle- whose name was Betty. Unfortun- many commercial activities. He is ment of the unemployment ques- ately they let Andy know that they an inveterate business man, a tion, which dominate and rob the knew, and the code message stop- campus capitalist. Throughout his peoples of America of their eco- ped just as it was getting interest· college career he· has never been nomic right to live, ~~-- ·-. ----· --·---·-- ing. without an agency or sideline busi- The Farmer-Labor party en- Although not a fraternity man, ness of some sort. Now he is en- deavors to meet this economic prin- Andy patronizes all the dances with gaged in booking dance orchestras ciple and political issue in that bat- equal aplomb. He is a conscien- for which he has a downtown of- tie of ballots which in 1936 will tious stag, and an English major. flee, complete with desk, telephone, make money and credit the servant At Prize Day Wednesday he cal'l'iecl typewriter, and small printing and not the master, of mankind. 1 I off two awards for senior essays. press·-everything ex:cept a steno- Production for profit, with its con- ---o grapher. comitant elements of greed, ex- Mountebanks End Their Busy Season (Continued from Pag-e 6) workers have been James Kimball and Francis Townley. The greatest aid in the making of the road trips was the new trailer, built at a cost of almost $250, which was used as a general equipment, baggage and scenery carrier. Next year it is the club's hope to purchase a heavy, second- hand automobile which will serve as a tow and crew car, a function now fulfilled .by the graduate manager's machine. Again through the efforts of the college News Bureau, arrangements were made for regular monthly broadcasts over station WGY. This has acted as a training device to keep all the members of the organi- zation not appearing in plays in practice, and has taken over much of the function of the Studio Play- ers, a subsidiary group, in training actors indiction and the proper use of the voice. A perpetually busy theatre prevented any Players' pro- ductions during the year. Columbia Players Give Clari Entering the field of promotion for the first time, the group brought to the campus the Columbia Labora- tory Players in .their J'evival of \Clari or the Maid of Milan,\ by John Howard Payne, a Union stu· dent and the first American play- wright to be recognized by the European stage. Later in the season they brought to Hanna Hall the Skidmore omnibus in John Mase- field's \Tragedy of Nan,\ sending to the Saratoga school Ibsen's \Ghosts.\ This interchange has been the basis of an annual exchange of produc- tions. Tllrough the generosity of an anonymous donor, new dressing rooms were built under the stage, and a large stairway installed. This has been responsible for lessening the crowding of the cast and crew backstage, and has eliminated the embarrassing parade through the audience from the old dressing rooms, now converted into a work- shop. New Switchboard Built Designed and built by John White, Robert Brown and Stanley Rocke- fellet•, the new three-act pre-set switchboard first demonstrated its . capabilities with the production of \A Bold Stroke for a Wife.\ .Al- though it has not yet been com- pleted, its extreme flexibility of con- trol made it an important factor In the success of all the year's pro- ductions. Stage-managing for the year's plays was done a new rotation sys- tem, with three men working as as- sociates, each taking charge of one production. Benjamin Wilson, Rob- ert Shreve and Arthur Firth, all Editor's Note: Tile other Con- cordlensis cohunns will be <'on- tinued nt-xt year. Their a.uthors will not be revealed until they are about to graduate, so that we can have the last word. ----0 Officers of Activities Individual budget hearings will take place during the week of May 6-11. The specific time will be an- nounced at a later date. Those activities which expect to apply for student tax funds for the coming year should obtain budget forms at the Student Activities office. Any activities which have not been granted tax money in the past should notify the tax: committee of any intention to apply for the com- ing year so that hearings may be scheduled. If possible such notifi- cation should be filed in the Stu- dent Activities office before May 4. plaitation and cut-throat competi- tion is the cornerstone of the capitalistic arch. That is why the problem of distribution under mass production can never be solved with equity and justice by a capitalistic controlled society. That is why capitalism must be destroyed; that is why it must be inevitably super- ceded by some form of a co-opera- , tive society based, as the Techno- crats say, on production for use and not for profit. The Farmer-Labor Party pro- poses: 1. Banking, Currency, Gold Stan- dard and Economic Balance. This pe1·mits the Government of the United States to issue money, as authorized by the Constitution of the United States and takes away from the international bank the right to conli·ol the money and credit of this country and further enslave the American people. It -permits the payment of Interna- UNION COLLECE BOOK STORE Room '5' Administration Building COLLEGE- s~al Jewelry Pennants, Pillows, Banners and Plaques Die Stamped Stationery FRATERNITY- Banners and Plaques On Display New Remington Portable Typewriter Desk juniors; were the tlrst men to work 'U;;.;;;;;;o,;;;;,;;;;;,;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;i;;;;o;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;i;;;;;..;;;;;.;;;.;;;;;;;;;i;';i;';i;' ·;;;\;;;· .1;\:;11 under the new system. 11 HOTEL VAN CURLER Guests of Union College Make Their Headquarters Here Rooms $2.50 and up Meals at Moderate Prices All the Comforts a H.otel Can Furnish VISIT THE TAP R.OOM Your Friends Will All Be Here Before and After the Dances Open Evenings • • • • • • Untill A.M. Saturdays • • • • • .. • • Until3 A.M. Sin~ Al1 Th with .8che·J com};: CEHl Chap gage1 a we •de!pi:: A. Ti have 1leges Gu ·gave Chap perfc eel :C the from certs they 138:rla at:Jian Th wave presE Rota Gym• Arne: prog· the l of th of V\ In inau1 augu wher first W1 seritE ern test. Wesl with. tion Men, Pe any 1 presE T1drx: orga· pani1 the i scho1 Th versi the J and frate Be will · be g been At t next Cof: In \T mos-1 cien' Coff arti< whi< of tl azin· text the ofF \F used USUc com circ1 to 1: race or E racli diffc that ago tiles to c the:y not cult: com of d and fool of 1 velo Catl agai rion- rece the aga· the for N witl to 'li1 talk hire lect

of Min- a s List as a divi- of the ye~tr THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 3, 1935 Nine Glee Club Closes Songsters Concert Schedule Who Completed Recently Higlily Successful Season Historic Diary Presented To Union College Library Sing With. Troy Vocal Society And Schenectady Schubert Club at ReCital The Glee Club, in conjunction with the T.roy Vocal Society and the . t\ch~·nectady Schubert Club, will, complete their seven months' con- cert schedule in the Memorial Chapel this evening. Listing 33 en- gagement~ throughout the year and a wt;Jek's trip to New York, Phila- •del'phia and Pittsburgh, Dr. Elmer A. T'idmarsh, director, and the club have appeared before clubs, col- •leges, churches and reform schools. Gunther Ramin, Leipzig organist, ·gave a recital in the Memorial: \The Diary of Thomas Robbins,\ two volumes relating the Hfe of a student in the class of 1796 at Williams College and containing references to two classmates who had transferred from Union to Wil- liams to get a degree in their senior year, have recently been added to the college library as a gift from a relative of Thomas Robbins now living in Hartford, Cc;mnectic\it . FREE- HAtRCUT and SHAMPOO Chapel October 4th, duplicating the perfmrnance of a yea,r ago of Mar- cel Dupre. 'The Glee 'Club sponsored the engagement, and were ·able,: from the returns of these two con- certs and :performances in which they themselves sang, to purchase a· 13arlor Grand Stein way piano. This, .at:Jiano is to remain in the chapel. They have frequented the air-· waves on many occasions. Their presentation at the International . Rotary Meeting, held at the Alumni Gymnasium., was broadcast to South America over station WXAF. Their The above .picture of the fifty-odd members of the Union College Glee Club was taken be:fore they had adopted· full evening dress as their official concert regalia. Even in provincial tuxedoes, the singers represent an imposing spectacle, and the reader will have little difficulty In imagi;ning the effect they achieve in tails and white ties. TO THE UNION PLAYER MAKING THE LONGEST HIT IN THE COLGATE GAME The club, which is winding up a busy !tlld successful season tlrls week-end by singing with the Shubert Club and the Troy Vocal Society in their joint concerts, consists of the f(}llowlng members: ------------------------~ ~·------------------------ program of Christmas music was' Fox Protests Wesiman Bill ·Front Row, left to right: .Jan1es E. wich, Conn.; Calbert B. Selmser, '37, the high light of tl:J,e five broadcasts. Kimball, Jr., '36, Springfield, Mass.;, Gloversville; Bernard Olender, '38, of the year made on a wave length In Letter to the Governor Wallace T. Foote, '36, Port Henry; Amsterdam; Vincent J. Keenan, '38, of WGY. · . :Byrne W. Mayer, '36, ·Schenectady; Saugerties; Charles L, Reid, Jr., '36, Ina.ugural Concert Rankine G. Hinman, '35, Schenec- Schenectady, pianist; Albert Wilsn, In honor of Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox's· Union College officials made pub- tady; Virgil J. Sager, '35, Sclienec- Jr., '38, Mamaroneck. inauguration they sang at the in-, lie today a letter written by Pres-· tady; Donald C. Hawkes, Jr., '36, Third Row, left to dght: Horace augural banquet in the gymnasium,, ident Fox. to Governor Lehman in Elmira, manager; Dr. Elmer A. F. Byrne, '38, New York City; David where the Alumni were afforded the which Dr. Fox strongly objected to. Tidmarsh, director; Thor-nton W. J. Ring, '37, Schenectady; Alan B. first opportunity to· hear- them. the Wesiman Bill which wyuld, Whipple, Jr., '35, Binghamton, stu- VanWert, '37, Schenectady; John A. Wlule in Pittsburgh Union repre-· \prevent a private school ·or col ege dent-leader; NoM:nan 0. Chadbourne Jordan, '38, Mamaroneck; Kurt H. serited New York State in the Ea.St- from determining its own char-: '35, Scotia; Ernest N. Brown, '35, Schaeffer, '38, Gloversville; James ern lntercollegiate Glee. Club con- acter,\ according to the letter. The Scheneatady; JDhn B. Dowling, Jr., W. Scott, '38, Kingston; Elmer T. test. ·Tying for third place with bill is before the Governor for sig- '37, Schenectady; Arthur H. Halla- Johnson, '38, Rotterdam .J ct.; Henry Wesleyan, .the club was accredited nature. day, Jr., '37, Oswego. B. Voorhees, '38, Chicago, Illinois; with. having given the best rendi-' Dr. Fox maintained that the Scond Row, left to right: Charles Benjamin Cohen, '38, Schenectady; tion of \Down Among the Dead \right of an educational corpora- E. Lane, '37, Hillsdale; Robert E. John N. Swanker. '38, Amsterdam; Men,\ by Vaughan Williams. tion to plan its personnel, to accept ·Wells, '36, Schenectady; Clarence Howard K. Dye, '38, Gloversville; Perhaps the finest concert that Ol' reject educationally qualified ap- Clark, '36, Ballston Spa; Melvin T. Richard L. HotaUng, '37, Schenec- any Union Glee Club ever gave was plicants to its student body or its' Boright, '36, Rouses Point; John M. tady. presented in J;3inghamton. Here Dr, faculty or its trustees, is more fund- Perry, '38, Schenectady; Law1·ence Fourth Row, left to right; Frank T1drnarsh played on an excellent amental than the 'right' of an indi- .F. Paulus, '35, Rhinebeck; Carl R. B. Gatchell, Jr., '37, Baltimore, Md.; organ to give thetn perfect acMm- vidual to enter a pr-ivately support- Faelton, '37, Bloomfield, N. J.; M. fames Walter, '36, Cortland; paniment. They also sang before ed Institution.\ Thomas S. Brown, '315, Herkimer; Henry G. Duchscherer, '36, Ken- the inmates .of the Elmira Reform \The general principle that in- William Boyd, Jr., ':37, Schenectady; more; Homer T. Jennings, '35, Ful- school on this trip. stitutions su:pported by public funds , Frederick B. Chapman, '38, Green- ton; Philip E. Duchscherer, '38, Ken- The Glee Club presented the Uni- should be o:pen on equal terms to more; Carl L. Marshall, '37, Troy; versity ·Of Rochester Glee Club at all citizens has long been accepted Frederick B. Hawley, Jr., '38, Bridge- the Mohawk Country Club April 24 as fundamental and axiomatic in Larrabee's Problems Class port, Conn.; Lawrence 0. Welsh, '37, and entertained them for lunch at this country, though in some com- Sees Auto Safety FI\lms fraternities. munities it has been found to serve Before the close of the year .there good public order to offer equal • THE NEW will be a banquet at which keys will <:!ducational opportunities to, white Two films dealing with automo- )}e given to those men who have and colored children in separate in- bile safety were shown to Dr. Har- been in the club for three years. stitutions,\ Dr. Fox wrote in part. old A. Larrabee's class in Methods At the same time officers for the \If a college administration found and Problems in the Civil Engi- next year will be elected. that out of the many applying for neering building, Tuesday. The DENTISTRY Coffin's Article 'Race Racket' In Joltns Hopkins Magazine \The ra~e racltet is one of the rnoS>t lucrative as well as most an- cient,\ declares Dr. Harl'ison C. Coffin, professor of Greek, in an article e·ntitled \The Race Racket\ which appears in the current issue of the Johns Hopkins alumni mag- a~ine. The article comprises the text of an address presented before the Men's Club of the Temple Gates of Heaven in October, 1933. \Ra:ce mongers\ have always used the normal jealousy, that man usually has for- some one else in comparable economic or political circumsta!l{)es, as a base on which to build an all-destructive fire of race-hatred for their own politlca:l or economic advantage. The race racket being practiced today is no different essentially, he says, from that practiced more than 2000 years ago by tbe Jews to drive out \gen- tiles.\ The campaign of the Greeks to drive out \barbari~~;ns\-a term they applied to all men who could not· speak Greek no matter how cultivated they were. Dr. Coffin compares with the Roman practJ.ce of discrediting the ideas of Greeks and other foreigners as \foreign foolishness;\ and the later customs of the medieval times which de- veloped the religious hatreds of Catholic and Protestant groups against each. other and against non-Christian peoples. Still more recently, Dr. Coffin points out, the race racket has aligned itself again on nationalistic line~;~ when the governments supported them for purposes of war. PLUTOCRAT New way to get through college with a minimum of effort-Unable to write as fast as a professor could talk, a Loyola University fresh.man hired a. sten:ographer to take the lecture in shorthand. Milk Cream admission to a cl~~;ss of 250 fresh-· first, entitled \What Stops Them,\ men, 150 were the sons of Methodist presented the basic principles un- A Phase of Pre17e11tlve Medicine Episcopal farmers, it might very derlying the design and construe- College Men find in it unusual properly decide that the tone of the tion of various types of automobile opportunities f~ar a career institution would be too much of brakes, and discussed the elements HARVARD UNIVERSITY one tradition and b:,J.Ckground and that make such brakes effective. DENTAL 5 ( H 0 0 L deny admission to 100 of these. A \Spring Harmony,\ the second P rivately suT\ported college may de- picture, showed the problem· s of A competent coors<> of preparation for -\' tho dental profession, A. \Clan A\ cide that it wants a certain propor- correct spring construation as well School. Writ• for catlllotu•. tion of men, of women, of students as the story of the development of LEROY M.a. MINER, D. M.D., M.D., DoM from tbe vicinity, of those from a ith~e~m~od~e~r~n~s~p~ri~n~g;.;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~;;D~op~to~2~7,~l~B;B·~Lo;n~ilw~o~od~A;v';''~B~o;st;on;,M;as~o.~ distance, of Protestants, of Jews, of Roman Catholics, of sons of alumni, of sons of merchants, or of Asiatics, of those of Norse ancestry, or of any other conceivable group. By intelligent design it might choose a body of students who would effe<ltively and desirably educate each other.\ CHARLES' Fo::;;I;v The Of!ic!al Union College Barber for the past 24. years. As!\: anY tipper classmen, they know. 11 operators. s~henectady's greatest barber. COR. STATE A.ND DROA.DWA.Y Your Guide In Buying Ice Cream at YOUR DEALER'S STORE or PHONE 4-9106 Butter Eggs SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING COMPANY. INC. 147 JAY STREET Schenectady, New York the gazette press extends it•s best wishes to union and all the lads ·Cloverland Creamery Phone 2-4265 also to their many fair guests Ice Cream Cottage Cheese Schenectady; Edgar F. Guillot, '37, Erie, Penna.; Malcolm M, Arny, '37, Montclair, N. J. ash Fon vouR om Cash TEXTBOOKS _ II Twn your old textbooks into .ready money or exchange them for current books or uanslations. Write, stating title author and copyright date of the bOOks you want to sc;ll. The lavelle Company THE ACME BARBER SHOP 1330 West Montgomery Avenue - 509 UNION ST. _ Philadelphia, ,~a., · - , We'll Furnish Everything But The Girl- Palm Beach Tuxedoes Full Dress Suits Dress Shirts Dress Neckwear Dress Oxfords White Palm Beach Suits ALSO Sport Shoes Gaberdine Suits NUSBAUM'S 447•451 STATE ST.

Ten OYer Two Hundred On Prom Guest List Continued from Page 1 Iia.ppa Alpba A week-end house party is being given by the Kappa Alpha fratern· ity at the fraternity lodge. Music for a dance tomorrow night will be furnished by Bill Mayotte and his ot•chestra from The Roman Pools in Miami. Mr. and Mrs. Kurt von Forstmeyer are the chaperones. Kappa Alpha's guest list in· eludes: Misses Isabel Kenyon, Schenec· tady, Marion Lynch, Albany; Mar- g<ud C!uwt:, Sclleuectady; Betty Shepherd, Binghamton; Anita Creble, Schenectady; Rose Helen Hutchins, Schenectady; Carolyn Mills, East Setauket, Ja:net Murphy, New York City; Mildred Clarke, Brooklyn; Jane Wilard, Troy; Do- mthy Parker, Schenectady; Mary Clare Graets, Brooklyn; Harriet Hatheway, Greenwich. Kappa Nu There will be dancing from 9 p. m. to 1 a. m. at a house party given by the Kappa Nu fraternity tomorrow night. Chaperoning the affair will be Dr. and Mrs. Samuel Fewer and Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Einhorn. Guests will be: Misses Helen Bashevkin, North Adams, Mass.; Sara Brandes, Sche- nectady; Ann Gaies, Troy; Florence Shielman, Schenectady; Gladys Klein, Schenectady; Sylvia Segal, Albany; Tobie Schwebel, Troy; Syl- vie Weisburgh, Albany; Shirlie Cohen, Schenectady; Jean Gold· stein, New York City; Roslyn Dworsl•y, Schenectady; Susanne Smythe, Johannesville; Anne Kurr, Troy; Edith FI·eed, Greenwood Lake; Sylvia Newmark, Brooklyn; Tillie Wohl, Brooklyn. Kappa Sigma The Revelers of Amsterdam will play from 10 p. m. until 1 a. m. at a formal dance which the Kappa Sigma fraternity will hold tomor· row evening, Mr. and Mrs. Burk- ett and Mr. and Mrs. Campbell will be the chaperones. The guests of the fraternity will be: Misses Anita Stuart, Bloomfield, N. J.; Doris Rinker, Bloomfield, N. J.; Margaret Tralunan, Bloom· field, N. J,; Myrtle Weast, Cantoo- cook, N. H.; Virginia North, Ben· nington, Vt.; Alida Steber, Ridge- wood, N. J.; Irene Presner, Cleve- land, 0.; Louise Broka:W, New Lon- don, N. H.; Janet Harriman, Balti- more, Md.; Nan Wilson, Schenec· tady; Betty Peterson, Schenectady; Jean Kreuzer, Schenectady; Ruth Ketchum, Scotia; Margaret Marha· fer, Scotia; Winifred Schermers- horn, Castleton; Alice Overbon, New York City. Neutrals Guests The Prom guests of the Neutrals include: Misses Catherine Broomhal, Sche- nectary; Viola Diemer, Schenec- tady; Lillian Godfrey, Schenectady; Margaret Chislet, Schenectady; June La Paugh, Schenectady; Nellie Vrooman, Scotia; June Mac Dowell, Schenectady; Rosa L. Ken· nedy, Schenectady; Noroine Muehl, Schenectady; Arlene Murch, Sche- nectady. Phi Delta Theta The Phi Delta Theta fraternity has engaged Don Curtis and his orchestra from Glens Falls to play at a dance to be held tomorrow evening from 9 p. m. to 1 a. m. The chaperones for the dance will be Mrs. C. F. F. Garis and Mrs. E. W. Burton. Guests of the fraternity include: Misses Jessie Savage, Scotia; Yvonne Robert, Northampton, Ma:ss.; Betty M. Gibson, Brooklyn; Esther Hill, Camden, N.J.; Dorothy McCann. Larchmont; Barbara Ses- sions, PalmyTa; Jeanne Roulier, C.ohot>s; Irene Ruttier, Schenec· tady; Mildred Brown, Charlotte, N. C.; Virginia Brillinger, Flushing, L. I.; Miss Marguerite Moon, Schenec· tady; Betty Brearton, Schenectady; Peggy Burg; Schenectady; Marion Edse!l, Pelham Manor; Elsie Helm· bold, Troy; Doris Rogers, Brooklyn. Psi Upstlon Tomorrow evening the Psi Up- silon fraternity will dance to the music of the Dictators of Hudson, N. Y. from 10 p. m. to 1 a. m. The chaperones for the dance will be Dr. and Mrs. Frederick Schmidt, Mr. and Mrs. Robert Abbett, Mrs. Albert Stevenson and Mrs. Eleanor Fox. The list of guests is: Misses Ruth Mengis, Buffalo; Alice Blauvelt, Montclair, N. J'.; Jean E. Craig, Schenectady; .June C. Smith, East Orange, N. J.; Ma- rion B. Bartholomew, Brooklyn; Frances Katheryn Hollingshead, Auburn; Mary S. Hawkes, Elmira; Barbara L. Darling, Medford, Mass.; Arlene Schoenberner, Ken- more; Eleanor Jean Anson, Ken· more; Jean C. Cadwallader, Pal· myra; BarbaTa Walter, Cortland; Marian A Hicks, Kenmore; Francis Muther, Newton, Mass.; Blanche Welln, Schenectady; Louise E. Dowling, Meridan, Conn.; Jeannette McMaster, Short Hills, N. J.; Char· lotte G. Ziegler, Baltimore, Md.; Winifred .K. Horstman, Erie, Pa.: Mary F. Stern, Schenectady; Phyllis Wilding, Nyack. Sigma Chi Mr. and Mrs. L. S. Bourch and Mr. and Mrs. L. H. Goddard will be chaperones of the Sigma Chi victrola dance tomorrow night. THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, .APRIL 30, 1935 i:r~~s~~e::t~:r~~ooman, Schenec- Chemistry Lab Gets Fraternities Hold Dances tady; Betty Myers, Elmira; Jane Gardner, schenectady; Ann Mw- Permanent E .. ,...Ll··bl•t· s!lhen, Schenectady; Harriet Greeno. . · · All : · , Continued from Pagel. alch, Rensselaer; Yvonne Regan, Falls will .play from 9 to 1 at the ALbany; Marian Fredricks, Sche- • • • . : Phi Delta Theta formal dance. Psi nectady; Emily MacLachlin, New- Display of Oil Refining Adds' Upsilon fr~;tternity and their guests .burgh; Mary Bull, Philadelphia, To Already Extensive . will dance from 10 to 1 to the music ·Pa.; Faith Young, Amsterdam. ·of the Dictators, of Hudson, N. Y. Collection · · The Sigma Phi fraternity is the Signm Phi : only house on the campus: planning A tea-dance will be given by the · a tea dance. It will be from 4 to 7 Sigma Phi fraternity at the Sigma 'The Butterfield Chemi<lal Labora- tomorrow a:fternoon. Sigma :Chi }las Phi place tomorrow from 4: p. m. tory has received an i•Ill[pDrtant 'dis·· a victrola ·dance scheduled for to- to 7 p. m. The Mises Achilles, .play rack showing a ty·pical refdn-. morrow night, and Theta Nu Ep· Miss Helen Watson, Mrs. F. Town- ing process for Pennsylvania. grade silon a formal dance with music by send, Miss T. B. Pryne, Mrs. J. ,4. crude oil from the Pennsylvania: the Musical Skippers. Tory, Mrs. F. Friehofer, Mrs. H. Gra(le Crude Oil Association. The B. Groesbeck, Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox, exhibit will ·become a pet•manent Mr. P. J. Brearton, Mr. C. F. F. part of the college's displays depict. Garis, Mr. E. 0. Shreve, Mr. Van ing various dndrustriaJ 'Pl'Ocesses and der Boget will be in attenda:nce. will be used tfor ~nstru()tion in, Guests of the fraternity will be: chemis.try. · It is not on 1 ly used in Misses Barbara Drefel, Philadel- class work but is open to the palblic. phia, Pa.; Elizabeth Miller, Sche\ Sanlples and• ()harts nectady; Rita Von Oesen, Rockville ·Included in the exhibit ;are lmlall Center, L. I.; Corrine Allison, Chat- ·bottles containing samples cf '}letrol· tanooga, Tenn.; Betty Rudy, Bing- eum products f1·om the r.aw crude hampton; Lois Brantley, Scarsdale; to finished motor oil,. gasoline, kero\ Elizabeth Poole, Cambridge, Mass.; sene and wax. A sketch of a typical Betty Fredericks, s, Orange, N.J.; refinery flow chart indicaJte& the Francis Becker, Garden City, L. I.; various points in the process at Eleanor Roy, Troy; Eleanor Angle, which the respective products are Rochester; Charlotte Ochs, Kala- refined out of the crude oik ma.zoo, Mich;; Mary Emily Andrews, rr.he e..\cilibits include among the Schenectady. other displays at the labontory: Exhibits from the DuPont Oomr Junior Prom Tonight- Continued from Page 1 Antwerp Waldron and Emery W. Burton. Patrons and patmnesses. for to- night's function will be President and Mrs, Dixon Ryan Fox:, Dean and Mrs. Charles Garis, Dean and Mrs. Edward Ellery, Dean and Mrs. Ernst Berg, Secretary and Mrs. Charles Wald1'on, Dr. and Mrs. Har- rison Coffin, Dr. and Mrs. Earl Cummins, and Professor and Mrs. Anthony Hoadley. Red Stocking- (Continued from Page 1) received a. letter from her which as- sured him ~at not only had his apologies been accepted but that she couldn't, it would seem, live without him. The letter read: the letter and understood its 1'eal meaning immediately, and after a. long explanation succeeded in mak- ing his friend understand it too. The junior, needles to say, did not call for the prolllised article. HYGIENE EXAMINATION \Mr; Arnot: I bave been consider- All fres'hmen II!lust attend! the ing your aJl{llogies and excuses, and Hygiene eXJa.!D.dnation which fs since you made such a wretched M l\t blunder in obtaining what you say schedu,led for ay · <>hat 4:20 !P· m. you sought when you made that. in the Oid. Ohapel, hurried grab in the dark, you may call around any night and get it. Alice M. Leeland.\ The junio1• aecepted the obvious meaning of the letter and was so enthusia.Stic that a. friend felt cDn- . strained to inquire as to the cause · of the sudden jubilation. He read The Elite Tailor Tuxedos for Rent All Kinds of Tailoring Work FINEST FOODS ALWAYS DANCING SATURDAY and SUNDAY from 10 until closing No Cover - No Minimum Theta Nu Epsilon pany, showing the manufactttre of -----------~---1 Suits Made to Order PELOP'S RESTAURANT There will be dancing ton~orrow duco, rayon, ceHophane, and. fabri· from the Diamond State Fibre Com- night from 9 p. m. until 12 mid- koids; from the International Nickel pany, showing manufacture•of ,paper •Company and the U. S. Metsl Re- night with music furnished by fining Company, showing proeesses and vulcanized fibres; from the 516 UNION ST. 438 State St. Opp. Jay St •. The Musical Skippers of Schenec· of metal refining; from the A.mer· Waterman Company, exhibiting the . tady at the Theta Nu Epsilon frat- loon Catalin Company, showing pro- production of fountain pens; f11om ~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;g~t;;;;~~;;;;;~;;~;;~;;~~ ernity house. Mr. and Mrs. William duction. of artificial resins; from. the the Norton Company, showing the lr Fiedler and Mr. and Mrs. Daniel General Electric Company, illus:trat- manufacture of refractories; from Weeks will chaperone. ing the manufacture of the M:e:l!da the National Aniline Chemical Com- Theta Nu Epsilon's guests will lamp. pany, .showing manufacture·of dyes; be: Varied Industrial Exhibits from the Ising Corporation, exhibit- The University of Bu,lfalo· Misses Valerie Magill, Albany; Also from the Johns Manville lng the production of perfumes and Florence Warner, Schenectady; Company, showing the manufacture flavorg from coal tar. SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY Bessie Heinbuck, Schenectady; of heat insulators; pure chemicals Edna Church, Oneonta; Madeline from various manufacturers of Bernstoff, Schenectady; Anne Nicoll chemicals, and the Dow Chemical Schenedady; Adele Diesem, Sche- Company, Grasselli Chemical Com- nectady; Amy Crabtree, Schenec- pany, Baker's Analyzed Chen~icals; tady; Lorna Mallory, Troy; Eleanor Enbert, Schenectady; Mary Noonan, Cohoes; Mary Smith, Hartford, Conn.; Alice Hickey, Mechanicville; Anne De Beaux, Nutley, N.J.;. Cath- erine Thear, Washington, D. C.; Ruth Inmann, Schenectady, Lillian Nelson, New York City; Catherine Hollis, Saratoga; Mary\ MQsly, Waterford. PINE GROVE DAIRY 118 S. FERRY STREET Schenectady, N. Y. JEWELRY-WAT<JHES Schenectady Vfatch Hospital EXPERT WATCH and JEWELRY REPAIRING All Work Done on Premises at HECKMAN'S JEWELRY STORE !lOS State St., Schenectady, N. Y. A three-year course of instruction, quarier plan. The dental and medical divisions are closely affiliated. Den- tal students have two years of basic medical study under the direction and supervision of the medical faculty. Clinical practice of dentistry, in all its varied aspects, is supervised by the dental division and is connected with the clinics of several hospitals. These combined institutions offer an unusually helpful experience in clinical observation, diagnosis, and treatment of dental conditions. The next regular session will open July 1st, 1935. For Further Information Address School of Dentistry, 25 Goodrich Street. Buffalo. N. Y. • • ~ 193,, I.tGGJTT & Mnas Toucco Co. There is no need for a lot of whangdoodle talk about cigarettes -just plain common-sense When you stop to think about your cigarette-what it means to you- here's about the way you look at it- Smoking a cigarette gives a lot of pleasure- it always has. People have been smoking and enjoying tobacco in some form or another for over 400 years. Of course you want a cigarette to be made right. And naturally you want it to be mild. Yet you want it to have the right taste- and plenty of it. In other words-you want it to Satisfy. Scientific methods and rijJe mild to .. baccos make Chesterfield a milder and hetter•tasting cigarette. We believe :YOU will enjoy them. -- t' L -=== Vol = En~ E TWI ,R Tl ·Mod Nat' ·Uni~ repr So vi regt ing Phil the ace< .Toh1 C!at kell, Riel left cil ordt fc:>re last• !1001 R frO II Roc Coil sity ver~ Arg ·Den key, vak S:POJ Ia tic was tion sor< the gro1 C. I he cou: the an 1 age· agr• Apr iie1· T: aro1 meE spe1 in the VIle~ the ct'on tioiJ judi Q1,1S '1\l~~ tiO!i sior pro diSJ Cou sett agi1 Upc fl'Ol teu the. T a:Jl~ the at : pur sltt gu~ q ho' fes ma wa: goc sid get guc pol Sk'i \ Pvc in. s)lE wa l0'\1 at thE Ski

a. too. not the is m •. ,. Honorary Fel,lbw In A1·t 1 : Lectures .. Thqrsday • ,_.,,__ _________ _ • Vol. LVI!II., No. 56 UNION COLLEGE, SCHEN~CTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, l\1AY 7, 1935 {Jnion Delegation Back From Model Council SessioD Engage in Discussion, A tt~nd. · Banquet, Dance in Group Froin Severt Colleges Represent Russia Two Juniors, Five Sophomores , .Represent Soviet Republic At Syracuse Meeting The Union delegatiOl1 to tne . Model Council of the League of Nations ;·eturned from .Syracuse . University Saturday evening after representing the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics at the second regular meeting of the Council dur- ing the current academic year. Dr. Philip E. Mosley, faculty adviser to the League of Nations group, was accompanied by Carl Olson, '36, .Tohn Hall, '36, Charles Reeves, '37, · Clarlt Cummings, '37, George Has- kell, '3'/, Carlton Garrison, '37, and Richil.l'd Snyder, '37. The delegates left for the May session of the coun- cil on Friday morning, May 3 in order to be in Syracuse fm· the con- fE'rences which began at 3:15 and lasted until 3:30 Saturday after- uoon. Leebrick Addresses Group CALENDAR Tonight 7:45-French Club Meeting, Sill!- · man Hall. Wednesday 4:30-Publication Board Meet- ing, Administration Bldg. 8:00-Spilred Shoe Meeting, Tro- phy Room,· 'fhursday 4:00--College Orchestra Rehear- sal, Hanna Han. Friday 4:30-Va.rsity Tennis, 1Jnion vs. C. C. N.Y. 5:00-Ciass in Journn:lism, Silli- man Hall. 8:30-\Twelfth Night,\ Mounte- banks Theater President U n ve i Is Ellery Po·rtrait Dr. Fox Surprises Audience At Moving-up Day, With Tl'llstees Gift 'Eisenbud Receives Princeton Research Award in Physics University Grants Student Research Assistan~eship In Theoretical Pb.ysics Brilliant Student Valedictorian lias Assisted Wold and. Rojansky In Laboratory Work Leonard Eisenbud e>f Eii2abeth, N. J., valedictorian of the senior class and candidate for the bach- elor of science degree, has been awarded a re~earch assistanceship in physics by Pr·inceton Univei·sity for next year it was announced to- day by Dr. Peter I. Wold, chairman of the physics faculty. Eisenbud will work under Professor Edward U. Condon in theor:etical physics at Princeton next year while a candi- date for the doctorate degree. Since his freshman year Eisen- bud has had a unique place in the department of physics at Union. His While students were busy with ability in carrying on re~earch in the festivities attendiDg JuniOI' physics was early nc<>gnized, for Prom weekend, President Dixon Dr. Wold provided him with a priv- Ryan Fox surprised them as well ate laboratory in which he wo1 ked as the faculty by including the un- under the personal su.pe:r: vision of veiling of the pottrait of Dr. Ed- the staff rather than in the formal ward Ellery, professor ·of chemistry lecture-laboratory courses of his here for thirty-one years and act- classmates. Eisenbud assisted Dr. Rapresentatives were also sent ing president for the year 1933-34, Wold in experimental physics and from Elmira Co~lege, University of in the usual procedure of the Mov- Dr. Vladimir Rojansky in thee- Rochester, W.ells College, Hamilton ing-Up Day exercises last Friday retical physics. College, Colgate University, Unive1:- morning. Thoe portrait a gif.t of the sity of Buffalo, and .Syracuse Um- trustees is to be hung among the High Average Maintained versity, which presented views of portraits of famous Union presi- Since his freshman year, too, he Argentina, Spain, .Australia, Chile, dents in the Memorial Chapel, said has maintained one of the highest Professors Get G rants For Research and Study Two professors have received grants to carry on post-doctoral study abroad and. in California it was:. announced receutly by Pres- ident Dixon Ryan Fox. The Social SCience Research Council appointed Dr. Philip E. Mosely, instructor in European History to a post-doctoral fellow- ship for next year to enable Dr. Mosely to study the present posi- tion and prospects of p1·esent agri- culture in Southeastern Europe. The American Council cf Learned Societies has awa1·ded a grant in aid of research to Dr. Bertmnd M. Wainger, as~istant professor of English for study this summer at the Henry E. Huntington Library in San Marino, Califol'nia. Dr. Wainger will continue his research in New England literature of the eighteenth century to which he de- voted his leave of absence last year at Cornell. Howard M. Smyth, inJtructor in history this year vrh1ie Dr. Joseph D. Doty, profes~or of hi~tory is in England on Ieava of absence to con- tinue his researches there, will take over the courses of Dr. Mosely next year. Dr. Mosely has been granted a leave of absence by Union so that he may accept the fellowship abroad for next year, President Fox stated. After a summer spent in Ru- mania and Budgaria surveying the problem in the field,. Dr. Mosely will spend six months in London and Paris, improving his technical equipment to handle the problem, then returning to the Balkans for six more months to collect detailed material for its study. ---o---- Delack Chairman Student Tax Body Donald Mille1· and R. Snyder Appointed t() Committee To Consider Budgets · Denmark, Great Britain, Italy, Tur- President Fox, who referred to Dr. averages ever obtained by a student key, Fra:nce, Portugal, Czechoslo- Ellery as a long respected and be- at Union College. He has had an vakia, Mexico, and Poland. A dance loved teacher and a competent ad- average of more thar1. 97 in his s:Ponsored by the International Re- ministrator and remarlr~d that courses, yet he has shown a great lations Club of Syracuse University, \honor and public recognition are deal of active interest in campus was held for the visiting delega- especially due the man iD the class- activities. He organize<! the Social tions. at the Kappa Kappa Gamma room . . . but are, however, gen- Problems Forum, and even more sorority house on Friday night. At emily posthumous.\ significantly, the Pbysics Club the banquet before the dance, the The likeness of Dr. Ellery, was which consists of both faculty and Bmton B. Delack, '36 was an- group was addressed by Dean Karl painted by George R. :Boynton of student members wh<J lunch to- nounced chairman of the student C. Leebrick, of the School of Pub- New York who has had for his sub- gether weekly and ·discuss infor· tax committee for next year by ltc Affairs and Citizenship. In the jects such men as E:lihu Root, mally their researches in physics. Ralph Semerad, president of the course. of his remarks he praised Charles Evans Hughes, Edwin He was elected to the Hale Club, Student Council. Don Miller, '36, the Union delegation for initiating ·Markham and Royal S. Copeland. a faculty-senior club for men of and Richard Snyder, '37 were also an action to place a problem on the He has been called \painter Iaure- cultivated interest in the human- appointed to the tax committee. agenda which had failed to be ate of army and navy life\ because !ties, to Sigma Xi, the national hon- Burton Delack is business man- agreed upon at the Assembly in of his numerous canvases of mili- orary scientific soc:iety, and to a ager of the Idol and the Garnet. April. tary figures. stage appointment at Commence- At present he represents the Junior · Dr. Ellery was born in Albany 67 ment which will take place June 10. class on the Stud1lnt Council. He Herber Elected World Com>t Judge years ago, had his early education He was awarded the Furman and h.as been on the Dean's List since T:welve questions were considered there, attended Colgate a.nd then Ho!'ace B. Silliman scholarships he entered college. In his Sopho- around· the Council table at this received his doctorate fr<Jtn. the Un- and in his sophomore yea.r won the more year, Delack was p!'esident of meeting. The Union representatives, iversity of Heidelberg. He also car- James Henry TurnbuJI prize for the French Club. He is among speaking fot' the Soviet Union, as ried on graduate work at Earvard, showing the grestest promise as a those recently elected to the Hale in the first Council meeting and in Berlin and at Cambridge, Eng- physicist. Club. The new chairman has served the Assembly at New York a few land. Last year he was appointed by the tax committee for two years \leeks ago, played a maj,or part. in After one year as assistant, Dr.· the pre~ident to serve on the fac- He is a member of Beta Theta Pi. the · discussions. The first thmg Ellery was made profess<Jr of chem- ulty-student commiltee to study the Don Miller transferred from Col- ct'one by the Council was the elec- istry here in 1905 and in 1919 be- marking system of colleges in order gate Unive!'sity. He has been on tion of Max Herber, Switzerland as came dean of the faculty. In May, to recommend a more intelligent the Dean's list since he came to judge of .the World Court. The ne~t 1933 he was appointed acting pres-· plan of evaluating the work of stu- Union. He is also a member of the business taken up by the C'ounc1l indent while President Frank Par- dents. Spanish Club and the Social Studies ~as the report of the Saar elec- ker Day was convalescing from Born in Elizabeth, N. J., Eisen- Club. Miller is u:ffiliated with the tions. The rapporteur for this ses- serious illness and retained this of- bud attended the Jefferson High ·Sigma Chi fraternity. slon was John Hal! of Union. The fice until June, 1934 when Dr. Fox School there and tau.ght Physics Richai'd Snyder is a member of problem of the Yugoslav.-Hungar.ian assumed hill present dttties. two year!l befure attending Union. the Alpha Delta Phi fraternity and dispute, carried over from the fust Dr. Ellery is national secretary 0 ,____ has been on the Dean's List for Council meeting in December, was of the Society of Sigma XI, editor two years. He is chairman of next settled peacefully with an encour- of the Sigma Xi quarterly and a R L Streevei' Lectures year's delegation to the Model As- aging display of internationalism. member of the National Research • • sembly of· the League of Nations. Upon the motion of the delegate Council, Division of C)lemistry and To Social Studies Class Snyder received the first Allison from the Soviet Union, the rappor- Chemical Technology. :He also be- debating prize for his work in in\ teur's report on this question was longs to the American Chemical tercollegiate contests. He is an as- therefore accepted by the Council. Society and the American Associa- R. L. Streever, c!e1·i1 of the Sche- sociate editor of the Concordiensis. The Chaco War problem wa:s fin- tion for the Advancement of Sci- nectady County Boar<l of Super- The new committee will also in- • llonorctry Fellmv Han-y Willson Watrous, Presi- df\Irt of The National Academy Association, as \\'illiam Auerback Levy se.t>s him. Tht> artist, born in Russia at Brest-Utovsk, rece-ived his pduca.t1on at t11e City Coll~ge of New York. His talents hlLve won him mauy prizes, including the gran-d pdze at the Chicago Society of Etchers in 1923. Mountebanks Give 'Twelfth Night' Final Production of Season To Be Shown on Camplls May 10, 11, and 13 In a mood of pure fantasy far removed from their last produc- tion of Ibsen's \Ghosts\, the Moun- tebanks will put Shakespeare's 'Twelfth Night\ on the boards of their campus theatre Friday night. Additional perforfances will be given Saturday and next Monday nights, and Tuesday the play will be presented at a special matinee in the Albany Boys Academy. Dressing their cast io sty! ized Greek costumes, the same as those worn in the New York production of \The Warrior's Husband'', and using \expressionistic\ settings, the Mountebanks will have a stage that i~ different from anything they have had before. Platforms, steps, and curYed and circular set-llieces designed by August Swyda, will be the scenery, adpating itself readily to the rapid shifting need for the eighteen scenes of the play. Led by George Stroebel, '35, play- ing his last role for the Mounte- banks and John B. Dowling, jr., as Sir .Andrew Aguecheek and Sir Toby Belch, respectively, the cast contains many of the favorites of the organi2lation. Ferdinand Helm, jr., '37, as Malvoilio, follows up his successful comedy worlt as Simon Pure in \A Bold Stroke for a Wife\ and Wallace T. F'()ote will pla~- Or- sino, the love-lorn duke of Illyria. George P. Haskell plays the part of Feste the clown. The female roles will be taken ·by Mrs. Hawthorne Deming, as Vi- ola, :Miss Bertha Lloyd, Maria, and Miss Viola Van Laak, Olivia. All <Continued on Pag-e 4) Soviet Group Return From Second Meeting Model Council At Syracu.se PRICE FIVE CENTS Harry W. Watro11s, Honorary Fellow In Art, to Speak Here .Well Known Painter to Confer With Upperclassmen of Art Appreciation Course Speaks Thursday To Lecture in Bailey Hall On Art in America and In. New York State The last of seven honorary fel· lows appointed by the trustees and anncmnced by President Dixon Ryan Fox, November Zl, will visit the college tomorrow and Thurs• day when Harry Willson W atreus, Honorary Fellow in Art, will arrive at the President's house, meeting students of the Art Appre.clatlon course and other upperclassmen in- terested in the arts at an Informal gathering tomorrow evening-. Mr. Watrous who is president of the National Academy of Art will also speak on \The Beginnings of .Art in America and its Develop- ment in New York State\ in Bailey Hall, Room 300, at 11;20, Thursday morning. He wiU include in this speech information concerniDg the many artists whom he has known and associated with. This meeting will be open to the public, and James S. Green, assistant professor of English and assistant professor of History of Art, has requested all students attending to be present by 11;15 a. m. Studies Art in Paris Born in San Francisco, Septem· ber 17, 1857, Mr. Watrous was edu· cated in the public schools e>f New York, and received his art ed1!ca- tion at Atelier Bonnat and A.cad- emie Julian in Paris. He is well known as a genre painter, spe.cial· izing in small figures very highly finished. Clark prize of the National Acad- emy of Design was awarded to him in 1894. He also received a special gold medal at the St. Louis Ex.posl- tion when he was chairman of the Ex.ecutive Committee on A.rt for New York at that exposition. From 1898 to 1920 he was secretary of the National .Academy of Design. He was Assistant National Academi- cian in 1894 and National Academi- cian in 1895. He has been. president of the National Academy A.ssCJcia- tion, School Art League, and vice president of the Fine Arts Feder- ation. He is a trustee of the Louis C. Tiffany Foundation. Mr. Watrous' fraternal afillia- tions include the Century Club, Lotos Club, National Arts, and Sal· magundi. He has travelled and painted in both Europe and Africa. His home in New York City Is the mecca of artists and art lovers of America_ Those who are re- ceh·ed in his drawing room are for• tunate indeed, for within is a tem· pie of art. Perhaps there Is n() finet· collection of fine arts houseli in a private home in New Yor1t. Letter Reveals Expenditures of John Howard Payne on Journe.g ally settled by the agreement of ence. visors, delivered the Edgar T. elude the president of th.e Student the Council to propose a conference As a chemist Dr. Ellery has been Braclrett Memorial lecture in prac- Council to be elected tomorrow CEditor's Note: The following debt. When he left here I ga.ve at Buenos Ail·es, Argentine for the a consultant with several industrial tical politics of local government, evening as an ex-officio member. letter, relative to the college him twenty dollars, when ten would. purpose of discussing the present con<:erns and a member of the yesterday afternoon in the local The group will m.eet with the bur- life of John Howard Payne, have been sufficient to carl'Y' him. situation between Bolivia and Para- New Yo;k-New Jersey Commission .government class of M:r. Robert sar, Mr. Anthony Hoadley to decide was found in the files of an Qld to the place where he was :sent, g uay. Charles Reeves spoke for· on Polution. At present he is city Rienow, instr.uctor in government. budgets for student activities in the Concordiensis. It was written Into his father's hands I shall S h tad M St Oke On \County year· 193\36. by John E. Seaman, young place two hundred and fifty dollarc: (co ntinued on Page 4) . chemist for c enec y. r. reever sp ..,.. . Government as a Subdivision of the ---o--- benefactor, to Dr. Nott). per year for the purpose of giving- SkidmoreProm TrotterPraisesB()oth System, Orchestra and Decorations State.\ \The Rev. Dr. Nott: him a liberal education. This al- \People say county govemment Graduate Council Dear Sir; lowance is to cease the moment he hasn't changed since C(llonial times, Silver Anniversary Master John H. Payne left this, quits Union. I have chosen. this but it is changing every day,\ de- the beginning of June for the Sem- plac:e, as Well as from. the higl:l. clared Mr. Streever. \New func- inary in Schenectady, but he has opinion I have of its President, as tlons are being added ail the time.\ The Graduate Council will hold 'till lately forgotten the place of from its detached situation., vvWcb. \We are adminlsterjng 2.7 kinds a special meeting on Saturday, May his destination. His vanity has led is in the case of this youth of the · 11 1 · d by the of relief in this county,. we give re- 11 in the Civil Engineering Build- him to malte himself conspicuous highest importance. There See .ms to be no doubt as to was espeC1a y . mpresse . . . b h If . 1 . t\' • ,..., h f t. t es had lief even before people are orn ing. The meeting which com- everywhere but at college, I, ow- , s1r, you can rec a:1m. U-IS :you ...... how the Union students enjoyed the booths t at varmus ra ern~ 1 \ (pre-natal care of m.others),\ con- mences at 10:20 a. m. will be fol- ever, received a letter from. him of and supplant his love of })Ieasure festi 'vr'ti'es of last ~\eek-end but around the ball room flocn. More. b 1 f t d \ h th for tinued the County offi.cer. lowed by a buffet luncheon, served the 19th dated 'Schenectady', so Y a ove o s u y, you will confer many might think that this attitude colleges ought to , ave. ~mwhen \Townships are being stripped of in Silliman Hall. In the afternoon that it seems this parox.ism Is fin- a very high obligation on his was necessarily prejudiced if the their da!lces. Th«:Y re gm:n t to· functions and they are .being taken the Council will participate in a ished, but I am afraid it will re- friends and render an essential ser- good opinions all .came from one. you're tired dancmg and wan over by the county. The typical sports program. turn, notwithstanding what he says vice to his country, for talents like side. It was decided therefore to sit down somewhere where Y<?U Ame 1 ·ican view appears to be \Big- Dr. Charles A. Richmond, Pi'esi- he has suffered under the opera- his, if properly developed, will do get the opinion of one of the Prom won't have the orchestra hla~ing m ger and Better Counties.\ dent Emeritus and founder of the tion. I gave him a letter for you much good in arresting the c:ireatl:. guests, and with thi.s· intent a re- your ear, or everyone st:ppmg on \Counties are being administered Graduate Council, will be there at which. I p1-eswne he has delivered. ful evils which await us from the porter approached one of them-a. yom feet as they go past. h ht better than corporatit>ns·,\ said Mr. the dinner, and many of the olde1· I therein requested you to furnish increasing and desolating defects S.k.l .dmore g'rrl. . . When. asked wh .. at s_ he. t o. ugto h f d d Streever, in conclusion ... Wl1ere we alumni who have had sue an ac- him with all necessaries and to al- o emocracy. As an editor of a \It rea..lly was one of >the best of the hquqr questlo~ In regar h have ltept our tax rate U:1e same as tive pat•tl in alumni work for its low him twenty shillings pe1· month paper he would be placed in a ps-- Pvoms I've .ev:er been to\ she said ,the dances, she adtnrtted that 8 e it was five years ago. corporations silver reunion. for p·ocket money. iti<m to become imminently wefl.ll in. answer to his question as to how. had seen no one,;who had evlde:ntl~ have ceased declaitog dividends :Or. Charles N. Waldron who has Sinc.e he left New York he has to his country as well as servioeeable she liked the Prom. \Thl;l orchestra: had too muc;:h. One of the thmg and fearfully c1·awl in a. hole hop- .been the activQ secretary of the squandered away ninety dollars, to his father in the suppoort of a was swell anct the deoorati'Qns were I lilted especially about the whole ing to lteep thell· do~rs open .. Yet CouP,cil since Its founding In 1910' which I ani. under no obligation to numerous and worthy family> atn, lovely. ·r' was. i·ather disappointed week•end W£\S that there seemed to people look at the county ~lte}l~ has an, article dealing With ·its his- pay, but if he agrees to remain at dear sir, In haste· and with esteetn. at first that :kay W\ebe'r :wasp.'t~ be no one who had taken too much. tically worrying about. .graft. There tory In the May number of the college fol.\ six months I will pay Very l'espectfully you:rs, etc. there, but that fellow that did the: A girl l1ates to dance with a boy is as much graft in cor·}lot:atiol!sl\ Alumni Monthly. the same, although it is a tavern JOHN E, S~\ s~lt made up for ller absence,\ Slle: .(Continued on. Page 4).

Two THE CONOORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MAY 7, 1935 I 1 ~ • • ' · bitions and ener.g·)..es of most ·Of the tlass of vtru· .l!t.t' 1935 al'e doomed to blight and stagnation. ~ .41 · The1•e is not room enough in society for the .----------------------.: young men, the present seniors, to find the Fa.rrago '[ . . ; ' ~ . i , .. MUSI.C: · · \A Causa Per sa Parole 11 ssai\ ' places for which they have been fitted. The '£he surroundings for the creation little book of gems plucked, from FOUNDED 1877 sins of the fathers will he visited upon them of this little brain-child are some- the flowering of the Victoria:n Despite v.ery heavy e:l(elids,. wh(l;t. dltferent than what we have period. mouttts which felt like. an old rub., :in the form of social maladjustment and men~ tal <Hsease. They a1·e the unwanted gen,er- had· in the past. Upper Broadway, * * • l;ler bath sponge, and ·many tlreil' New York, is we feel, less condu- Out on the street they are yelling ~;tching humans, th~· .. Otlga'll. 1•.ecita:l Sole and Exclusive National A<!vertising Repre- sentative, National Advertising Serviee, Int!., 11 \\'est 42ud St .. N. Y. c .. 400 No. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illinois, Chicago-Wrigley Bldg,, Boston, Mass. : ation. cive of thought to the kind of a col- · \Extra\ to announce the death ?f managed to be a success. The Up- urnn the Concordy would print than Junior Durkin. We ask God, 1s finished Symphony was magnifi- the press room in Silly Hall. .there any justice. If only Shil'ley cent as were the two :rlupre num- Our one regret is ha:vlng. missed Temple had fA.llen into a lake and bers, even though the. 'Lamento' :the prom. The. g~rl .in the front been eaten up by an octopus we did mak.e us think. .of the Sa,tle. page ·of the Concordy was· without woulct· have seen some sense. But ' QyJ;nn.opedies.' For those of yo)l a doubt a-s attra-ctive an ad f·or the: Junior Durkin,- ridiculous. He was who thought the· Fest of the pro,. .prom as any of the sales speeches. a good actor even if 'he did senti- gram was rotten, t4ere was 'Pomp PROTECT THE LIBRARY The of.ficial newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fridays throughout the ·college year, except during Christmas and spring recesses. P.erlraps no door should be in more con- • stant use than that leading into the college ' lib1·ary. It is there that the earnest student must accumulate material for his term paper; He supplements his text~book knowledge . with the works of g-reat writers an.d thinkers w:e hn.ve been forced to hear and mentalize Huckleberry Finn. and. Circumshi.nce'. .. · ·· read the last few weeks. · • * * Carnegie's; · coilfee·. @'inde.r, the• · • • * Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Overheard at the pl'oJp.: Cape!J.art, ha:l,l ~truggled to her fee~· Despite the· unearned panning \Don't get up Mary, I just came and js operating in a· half-helll'.ted<· from the critics, FlQWers of the. in to fix the victl,ola.\ fashion, however., with a little med'- ' Forest is one of the best plays on \Don't get up Betty, I just came u~al attention she soon: w:nt·b& mer-·· Broadway now~ It would not fall' in to close the wjndow:\ rily changing her ·own records<' ·into the classification of well-made \Don't get up Lily, I just came in again. ' · · · · play, and perhaps some college pro- to wash my hands,\ Stock depart!hent: ·,~t. .. Jiolyoke- Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. · ' to be found in the libmry; in fact most of . his academic activity should revolv.e in this hall. fessms would not even call it a * * • Co!l_ege. Rating: swan}i:y, exclusiv:e; ,good pla.y; nevertheless, it is the Gleaned from the columns of the the best there· is. Music·depa~!t:ini'mt Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. kind of a play that causes· shivers Daily Dartmouth, and international- consists of, 1 old .building, 2Q bad to go up your spine and down bridge problem: upr~ght pianos, 1 small 'ol'gan, 1 Now there are certain miscreants and ab- : sent-minded beings whose conduct, in rela- again, not unlike the first theme in East: France medium sized ChaPel organ .. · · Tschaikovsky's Sixth. South: Italy Skid1nore: Rating-about half Senior Board Van Vechten Trumbull ...... , .. Editor-in-Chief Della l'lli Hom;e-4-0615 William H. Fitzgerald ....... Business Manager l!c·lta Up>~lon llouot..~i-792~ John D. Anderson ............ Managing Editor P,i l'!>><ilun IIou,e-·1-SllO Albl'rt H. Stevenson .............. Sports Editor Psi l 'psi! on llouoe-·I-S710 Robert C. North .................. News Editor ll<'lt<t llt>silon llou\e-4-7U22 Wallace T. Foote ............... Feature Editor J\lpha iJei.ta l'hi House-4-tin~ Junior Board ASSOCIATE EDITORS Milton Bedell Richard Passenger Ralph Cohen Richard Snyder Fenton Gage Norman Stewart •. *' * : tion to returning and borrowing these books, rn. shn.ning this room with Rob- : det·anges the systematized methods that the erts the .last few days, we have · libt·al'ies use to keep track of all their vol~ ~~;ng~:~~~fe ~\~?en\h~=~· ait':~: • umes. They enter, take from the shelves pears that pre-exam time in grad- uate school is just a little different what they want, and then depart. A few may from the corresponding .period in for!:ret to rell.·ister their withdrawals, but. college. John's style seems to be ~ ~ wo!'k from about 7 a. m. to 12 at ma11y sneak past the loan desk without the: night. . \ .. most remote intention of \signing up.\ In · Quoting Gladstone, in a weaker lhis fashion the already inadequate research moment we hope: \No wave on the I , 'b ff h b great ocean of time, when it has faci tties that the h rary 0 ers. ave een floated past us, can be reca:lled\ d:epleted. :There nr.e others lilte it in our own West: Russia that o;f Holyoke. Music dept: nearly· North: Germany 35 grand pi;tnos in fine shape and · East holds: Clubs bids: pass good tune, two practice organs, 1 South holds:· Clubs ·bids: pass four manual chapel otgan. 1 Cal'- West holds: Clubs bids: pass negie Colle.ction. North holds: the ·bag bids: Clubs To set the minds of t:he· Civ!c The problem: Who dealt this M;usic Ass .. at ease we Want, to say mess? that we probably won't be· going to >!< * • Complaint to the Manager·: We biro the lawns And wax the floors, We polish the knobs Of all the doors. 'fo impress our guests, We take great pains, But when Prom comes It always rains. he!Lr John C)larJes. Th9mas Fi'iday night <they wouldn.~t let us. ip. an~- . how now) so that we'll have noth- ing nasty to say a,bout their- v:lsitbi~. · We heard Thomas in Utica last yea~· and·. were much impressed· with the quality and trueness of his voice, and if we did go we· woulli' ha:ve nothing but orchids to toss. his way-unless he sat aown. at the·. piano and. did Kreisleriana. Carlton Garrison Thel'e are others however, implicated in -~------------ Sophomore Board the inadequacy of this department. Others, · Middlesex Notes tr:=========~ Thank you Middlesex, fc;>r yQur boost, we hope we can do t·he· same.· fm you someday, J. Bundgus R. Doig Assistant Edltm•s H. Enzer H. Hartmann who from the very nature of their position H. Ferguson M. Murofl 1 ld 1. t · t • d · t t\ th It is rather amazing that God \\'. Dt'an c. Honikel c. Trahman . s lOU ue mos In ·ere.s.e. ln pro .ec lng· . ·e should work only on eastern stand- ·--------------------' college from these philanderers, have em- ard• time. With the coming of day- d h d Ught saving the dances were shoved Tth'>:Liay. May 7, 1935 Issue- Ed ito!' .......... Norman n. Stew:l!'t ploye tactics almost as under ande in tak- forward to one o'clock, yet the Sab- in!!' out what they vvant. We refer to those· bath Is not considered desecrated. Assistant lssue Editors \ d • \ * • 1 1 professors whe with raw \resecve books\ lt!Cilan Pas:-it•Jlgl'r Fenton G:tg-e TwCl socially prominent Mounte- ~0~==- -~-- --· _ =~~.=-------------- for an indefinite time. banks, feeling ina strapped but ca- pricous mood, decided to go to the Unfortunately the student has little re- ·Tap Room for dinner, and see what ~~-- -~-~---~-~- ~~~~c====- coLt rse. He can hardly approach the profes- the management would do if they said they had no money. Accord- 1'HE U~WANTED GESERATION SOl' and d·emand the book. The only thing ingly, they ordered the most expen- tl t h d ' t · t'l th · 'd sive meals in the place, and when 1a e can o IS o wa1t un I e mconsi er- they 11ad finished, calmly waited for ate professor remembers to return them. It the check. It came, they reported, THE POET'S CORNER THE HEA:BT The heart's a chosen countryside, Where charming maskers congre· gate To play the lute, and sadly smile Behind their gilded masks ornate. AU singing in a. minor key Convenient life and boundless love, They doubt their transient happi- ness; Their song blends with the moon above- ---10------\- Weeks. Best Editorial MUZZLING EDUCA-TION· The bill, now pending before t:be:- Ma~sachusetts state legJslature~ whzch would require all teachers to· ta:ke an oath of loy{dty to the Con- stitution seems to the unptejudlced'. observer both foolish a-nd fU:tile, It 'is manifestly an a.tteml)t ro,' stifle radical teaching; in th& cot .. leges· and schools of the state. That· it will undeniably fail in this etl'or.t' ·is manifest. The bill requil'es ~i. Al!'eacly the srnio1·~ aTe beg-inning to get tin·d of all:-iWl'l'ing the que:;tion, ''\Vhat m·e you going lo do aflP!' you gTaduate?\ After the first few hundred times the question be- comes annoying. It is even more annoying· \\hPn rnll' c:tn't an,;wcl' it. And most of them cau't. but wonder of wonders, the man- might be wise to impose upon the faculty .agement wouldn't believe them. To the fining system that is in use with the stu- day they are in debt quite a few dollars. With moonlight sadly beautiful Which makes the birds dream the shades, teachers, whether· in public or priv~ ate schools, to take an oath of. aile- In gia:nce to the Constitution. Sine& it' dents. • * .. The Mountebanks are breathing more easily these days, since it has And sob with mournful ecstacy 'rhe fountains, lost in sculptured gH1des. ENERGETIC ENGINE-ERS Some members of the class of 193!i m·e Last week while most of us were en- been announced. that they are escap- I Adapted lng the fate hitherto xeserved for VerlaineJ. the Glee Club. Their ambitious grad- -J. C. D. f10m Clair de Lune by * • • uate manager had contracted for a one night stand at a select school for socially maladjusted young men at Cox:sackie, but the plans had not worked out. The school, the headc master said, had a student body of only about 300, but, h.e added with a cheery smile, they were expecting more any day and you were sure to have a full house. Therefore the Mountebanks will only go to the Al- bany Academy. . . .. planning- to go to graduate school, to study grossed in the Junior Prom and the weel\- medicine, law, o1· work for ad¥anced degTees. end's \doings\, seven students of electrical They me lucky. FOI' them the inevitable engineering- attended a convention. of student question is po:;tponed fo 1 · a few years. A few branches of the American Institute of Elec- uther:s have theit· lives afte 1 • graduation all trical Eng·ineet·s at R. P. I. There they met mapped out with a definite job in prospect. with .similar groups from a dozen engineer- Hut the rPst. the gTcat majol'ity, can find no ing schools in this part of the c.ountry in- ans\\\l'l' for the question. No wonde!' they are eluding- Cornell, Worcester Polytechnic, Hat·~ annoyed. vanl, Maine, Yale, Clarkson, and our neigh- The First American Writer's Con- gress, held at the New School for Seniors in every colleg-e in the country are bo1·s and rivals in Troy. Social Research just held its get-to- \rt~lldt>J'ill!!\ what Uw,v can do wh\n th·et·l. al111•1 Little ballyhoo was rriven to this meeting, gethet· in New York. They present- .. ._. • ~ ed a pretty strong case for proletar- lttatt:r has g-iven them a diploma and a bless- either in The Conc01·diensis or elsewh.ere. It ian novels, poetry and drama, and · 'fl l 1 · d f 1 passed much time arguing about 1ng·. te ( i emma the~· face is a 1·eal and I'eceive ar ess notice than the recent ex- their definitions. They also spent prw:tical problem, not the rhetorical situa- change seminm·.s in economics and philosophy two days formulating concrete pro- grams on revolutionary forms and tion which conmwrrcenwnt rYrators love- which Union students held with Columbia .all the rest of it. Pe1·haps It is the Youth striding- forth into the cold heartless and Amherst. Yet this meeting was J'ust as fault of our bourgeois upbringing but we had thought of art and litez- wo!ld. All the t·omance and glamor disappear valuU'ble to the students attending and just ature as being something above wlu•n the question is ~tated baldl.v, \How can as beneficial to th.e college. Indeed, the A. I. politics and economics. * • * IT'S· LIFE We taJte it on the chin, And go around and gr1n And smile and smirk And worlt, and work. And if we don't go berserlt Like a loony old Turk, With our heads all aflutter And.· our minds in the gutter, We take to bad gin, To soft light and din Of sax and violin And all those merry vices Then we ease our brains with aspirin grains, And tie hot towels Beneath our jowels To d1 aw away the pains. We live, worlt, pl::~,y In brightest hope today, And· tomonow we wa·ke To find the nymph in the brake A mirage-flown away. · -J. S. R. ... * • :B6AST I get a job'?\ Somehow the .senim·s must earn E. E. cohvention was equivalent. to an ex- A slight mixup occ\lrred in the a living. Tlll'y must find somethin2· to do change seminar with 1l colleges instead of Syracuse Daily Oxange when they M \ made the announcement \All sopho Y aged uncle Arley is supposedly to apply only to cit1~ zens, who are by virtue of theit\' citizenshiP' bound to. uphold tile-' Consti tutlon, it seems an. utterly:· futile gesture, The mere taking of: an additional oath will liardiy tend: to change the ideas or methods of. teaching of most ptofessoz•s. How€ver, as the first step. ln.. a.. gradual stifling of academic free- dom, this bill is obv<iousl~ da.ng~l'­ ous. Prominent educators all! owu the state condemned! it at. the hcar,- ings on it early in April. They wee& opposed by. such, champions· of. blind£ Americanism as the American Legjon, Sons of the A:merica.n Revo- lution, a.nd Veterans of Foceig)l Wal's. A.t the end of the h~aring;. it seerped, according to Tilll.&, \as ir the legislators would pass a teach~ era' oath bill.\ We as students must needs feel \'- eel tain sense of futility before th~ inscrutable ways of the Maasachu- ~etts Legislature. There is, indeed; , at this point, very little that we- can do. :aut we should take every opportunxty to condl!mn any· bill:\ which seems, as does this one, to. lead to the suppressi..cln. of tx·eedom of thoug,ht an·d instruction in ouu schools and collegj!S, -Smith C.ollege- Weekly .. •. _____ s_ec_._re_t_s_e_N_._ic_e _____ .t.· _ Bureau L that will take all their energy and talents, one. The meetings consisted of technical dis- more women interested in tryin~ Once !mew James A Farley; that will make them inclepencl\llt of the 1 · 1 . cussions, the readinrr of papers wr 1 'tten by out for the position of junior assist- ~~he~dthey were young \ ~ ant to the senior guides for next ey wet the toung p:u·ents. students on their independent study and re- year call Eugenia Remmers before Wilh Juice of cozn and barley! The big. wel)k-end of the :v.ea.r t 1 ~:: ,_ J s R history and the result !;las been. t;.he, TIH' .~Taduates of 193:> \''Cl1t to t\l{e thet't• senl'Ch, and a visit to the laboratOl'l.\'\· of the ~ ··lday. Two juniors will be chosen\ - · ' · a:1 h • \ \'\' The·. hi~rarchy must be crumbling usu . s a.l'P rise in t:he, price of a-s•· placl';; in thl' adult wol'ld, hut the task is General Electl·ic Company. C!1ppmg ftom the Univet,sity of pirln and bromo, The, numbe11 ot l f Michigan daily, we find that in a seven for his rugged individualism. colds around the campus the last ltu•n• 1 i ficull than eve1· before. The cards Ped1aps the most noteworthy fact about r.a.·ther's eyes co!lege was a place ·Although the youngster-'s father two days is particularly amazing k l · 1 h th k\d was an aviator he had dec\d ·' t . \Vhen one eonsiders the \cUI·e\ that· <Ill' :-;tac 't'< agam:-.t t ll'lll. Onl.v a few will the A. I. E. E. conventl\on was that the Unl'on. w ere e I s go and spend· morP , I eu o ht! four years than father mnltes in bet'ome a submarine sailor. most of the boys took,. may.be- it ~ lll'l'l'ed. It is the old story which has been deleg·ation was organized and. preparation si:x. To mother it is a place where • .. • was from .exposu.re < ·n. ft'Jll'atl'd :td llaliSL'alll ever since 1030: there made with little intet·est and no encout·age- ta.undry cases are· mailed, and to the g~nera:l public, it is a place art> nol l'llotlg'h jol1~ to go arounrl. Society ment from the faculty. Union's pa1ticipation where gin, rah rah and raccoon I t I . coats abound. w;; ~Jl<'ll :1 ot of nwncy on the present gen- was strictly on student responsibility·,. tl1ey \B ut,\ says the editor \in reality, im· cia,;:-; to train thrm for adulthood, and planned it themselv.es,. wrote theil· own J)a- it is the place where you go to · l 1 tl classes five days a. week and study now :-octt• ~- l \L'> not w:mt 1em. pet·s under their ow.n supervision. Having weekends.\ Ah-ha:h! \\\ e have hL•anl a ~Teat deal a:bouL the reck- already encountered the supreme indiffer-. IPss \\·a:-.tt• of our t•t·onomic sv;;tem which a!- ence of the electrical engineering faculty to low:' thou:;a!HL..; to ~·o without sufficient the formation of a student branch of the A. eJ,,tiJing \\ l1il<' l'l•tton fit·hb art' l•<'in:~ plnwen I. E. E. this winter, they did not expect much lll!!lt•l\ \\ ltieh lntrll> COlli ;ttHI ll't:-; wlH·at rot ellCOlll\ag·ement. To the student memoers of 111 till' hir1:-o \\ltilt> P~'\PIP ,;larw, which pays th<' A. l. E. E. should go nil fhe credit fm· the· L11\llll'l:-i not to \1orl\ \\llik· the numbers on :-;ucce~s of this meeting, the first major pro- thP !'(·lil'f 1'111l:-> nwunt hi:.dH'r and highet·. jcct of the new o1·ganization. We admire t:ut llti:-. t•corwinic wa~tl· is nothing compared thl•i r spirit and wish them equal suc.cess in with the appalfing waste of youth. The am~ .future undertakings. .. . . Some future Stroebel will proh· ably shock the student body by call- ing for an amendment to the Con- stiHltion changing the name· of tho> Student Council io the Union Ath- letic Associ~tlon. Ali but one of the reptesentatives are athletes. Conit> to think of it, Mr. Scmerad's charg·e to .·the· Ten-ace Council was appro- priately !lind delightfully vague. •. It • Weekly· ·Hearstlana-Mr. Hearst toolc time out last weelt to c·ongrat- ulals a: yuung .Am-erican of· alinut' F .. \' * q·om an unidentified t>xchange we glean this, which might have Joe Woolman seemed'· tlJ hav~ a been of use to you before the Pz•om. strangle hold on the Pt·ize Day ex· et <lises. Veni, Vidi, Vici. She learned to love She teamed I<> hale, She learned a car Would carry eight. She learned to smoke, And how to .te!! Wood alcohol By taste or smell. Slie learnPd to coaK She leatnPd to tPase. She l!'arned: a nPw way· or cooking l'hee~e. .She learned to neck And btPak a datP, Sh.e's rea,dy now, TlJ g,raduate. -s; R. C. ... \ . The ex.peditionary forces to. the· Model Council at Syracuse did we!f at the Council table, l)ut .thelt· great.· est triumph came In the field ot social diplomacy. · • * • We understand that the D. t:J; housekeeper is still locrking fa~.> the! ch.a!J tCould It have been a K!lip•?} she ran a race with a .few Slit.uL'\'· days ago, accomp~ied . by . till&.'. strong l:ig,ht arm of .the LaJw.. ~ ... An.d th~ri there is· the Sltidmore, girl wll:o DJ!stook the 1LJ.:bra.Jl~, .fo~;. ~. ·water.-towel!. Q.'tll.te naturaL , :- :J ., Es, lila and Bee. G . • . . , lin field feat }ill;~f to-R• o:Yel' bY.; 1~ and• high with .te• day·• ·over heav ure!!., irictl, CQ~d; ·P1ac!' FJ~k orsb takir t~ .. tied w,lth. and Boct pJ!l.cE Cri ed: o heav of· t MUa: ah.ce 113f a. sa Ph ill Plac' Bill the • Jo for·m off t the. l yard sec.o1 a.ble; the and. The byV firat: then Fcy4 two Pt the to h Jeri font lmd v~n. at ! was whc his : lU out The for· At t to f in f rl~h h!il baci ll)aJ mec at t ale his the nea ay at 10:2 don tire• last este V.: •polE wrti Fisl low last g;-ot he Cla1 Shi• can t8k can in, fagj a to] ond the the· Bla Q; f F. bl'o Thi of est• ( at aut wlr RQ• UP( put the ton Ga 1'8.1 PilE wi1 ed

tie · 1 alf nd 1 ay to •. he· re~ to· tl). ol .. at: aill iv- le- of: of. a ... , THE eO:NC0R:DlENSIS, TUESDAY, MAY 7, 1935 Ga:ritet D'oWils Ro~hester lnbamural Notice ,Garnet Play WeJI ln Hotly Contested Meet Games which were postponed Lost' .,g .... 1 Match have been rescheduled as follows: lU \I:• . .. Horseshoes ~ 1 Theta Delta Chi-Chi Psi, May 10, cr 1 :• 1. .• 1 .3 N k' two for Rochester, who dvopped the noon. rntreruS. anu .agUSZeWS 1 b~ton. Not satisfied' with this he • Sigma Chi-Alpha Phi Delta May Ea&h ']ake Pai\r Of ktcked it around, finally picked it 10, evening. ' Up, and started after Hughes wll.o l SigJna Phi-Psi Upsilon May 10 Fb:s:t Places was forty. yards in the lead, Coach evening ' • Gorton conceded the race and told ' his two vemaining men to go to the , Lambda Chi Alpha,.Delta Upsilon, BY MILTON D. BEDELL showers. His intention was to use May 10, ev.ening. two inexperienced men to complete Phi Sigma Delta-Theta Nu Epsi- Uriionls Garn.et clad track and field team at()ned for their close de- feat at the hands of a strong Wil- lill;~f! te~~<•m last '!Y'.ee'k by trav.elling to Roo:bester Satur.da.y; and winning ovel' a: yeferan Y-e1lowja.cket outfit by, 77~ 2.3 to 53< 1.-3. Clark Shields, and• .Leon- Naguszewskl wer,e the high scol'ers for the Garnet team with two first places each. the race. When he looked ru·ound Ion. May 13, noon. however, Fogerty had gained o~ E:mer.son-Larson-Chi Psi May 13 Hughes who had stiffened up and noon. ' ' the race was still not lost. Wood, Delta Chi-Mirates Ma.y 13 noon ~ne of the regular runners, was , Laurenski·Theta Nu Epsilo~ May ound and too~ the baton from Fo- 13, evening, ' gerty who fimshed a yard beh~nd . Hughes. Fryer led' Wood around The mtr.amural tracck and field by a yard. Where was the remain- events wh1ch were· scheduled for ing man for Rochester? He had 'Wednesday a.f>te~noon at 40:30 will taken the coach at his word and be held at that bme and· on Thurs- Record Threatened left for the showers. Ross finished day, as the· Clarkson baseball game Leon. ~us;~;ew..sld. had. a. great fot• the Union team wJth a camfol't- has been postponed. day.· with tile shot. Six.- throws wel'e al>le lead of t:wentv-five yards over,,-----~~---~---­ •over fur.~ faet and the winning 'Hoyt- who finally ran anchor for 220·yard Dash-Won by Ba~Rage (R), heave,\ Na..g:s. first of the day, meas- ,the lalte-side team. ,¥ 1 t~!-f¥.l second, Wood (R) thil'<l. ure!!.. 42' 1!', coming, within two The summaries: 1 T>iseus throw-Won by ~{lgURZelvRitl iJich~ of tha· present college re- . . . ,(U). Cra.yt(}r (R) sec•ond, l\lilano ({') cqrdl. Chuck Krull was in second Mtl~ Race-];'h1lhps (R) and Newton thlt'd. Distance 125.5. plac~ f'OI' the Union warriors until (R) tted for fn:st, Brockwell (U) sec- T\·o Mile Run-Won by nastedo ({'). \'ink; b~at him. out for second hon- ond·, Tlme- 4 :u 2 .4· second Phillips tn.), :Mh·ute ( lJ) third. ..,. .- .Shot Put-Won by Nngus?.ewski (U) 'Thne--10 :20. ors by less than an inch. Mal Am~, Fmlt (~) second, .Krull (U) lhhd. Dis- P()le Vault-Burton (!.') untl Van taking- Oaptaln Griffing~s place in tanre 4. feet, 1 mch. Wert (U) tied for first. RPubens (R) t~ high jump came through and 440--Won by Wood (R), F'rye!' CU) third. Height 10 feet, 9 in<'hes. tied .with Em Burton for first place second, Ross <li) third. Time--:i1.4. 2:!0 Lo'\ Hurdles-Wu1t bv Shields High Jump -Burton (U) nnd Arny (U). Fisher (R) second, :-.n'i~no (t:) wJth a leap of 5' 5\. Jack Bloom (U) and Hughes (U) tied for third. third. T1me-2G.6. and Wally Hughes, and Goebel, Height-5 feet, 5.5 Inches. rtelay-Won by Union (Neumann, Rlochester, tied fox· the usual tbil'd 100-yard Dash-Won by Glenn (tT), Hughes, Fryer, Ross), st>cond Ro<'h- p •ace. se~ond, \?assage (R), McConnell (R) ester (Stevenson, Foget·ty, Wood, ,... tlurd. Time-10.3. Hoyt). 'l'ime-& :35. Craytor of Rochester nearly nos- 120 High Hurdles-Won by Shiel<!~ Broad Jum~Won by Hirst (T'). ed: out Nag in the discus with a CU), Cooper (R) second, Fisher CR) Bassage (R) sec>ond. N'oonan (ll) heave comin.g within a. few lnchea third. Time-1 G. G. thll\'d Distance 21 feet. 4 ln<'hP~. f U - , bl · h J Half Mile-Won by PhilliP\ (D), 1 Javelin throw-Won by BI?.OHtow>id 0 · nlCms g Welg t: man. oe· N'e_umann. (li) second, Andi·ews (R)' (B), \V:a:,;sdorp IH) •ecullll, Jlloom (I') Milano impr()ved his past perform- ttmd. Time-2 :4.4. t.hlr<l. Distance 155 feet. a.n.ces and took third place with a 113 foot throw. The mile race w.as a. sad event for the visiting team. Phillips and Newton tied for first Place fox• the camera-city boys with Bill B•·ockwehl taking a third in the ex:temely slow time of 4:55.8. Glen Takes Hundred Johnnie- Glen repea.ted his per- fox·mance ofr las~ week when he got off to a.gpod.tw(}-ya,rd start and led the field! to tille tllJp.e· in the hundred\ yard:. dash in 10 a.nd three-tenths seconds. liti:Jiat. a,nd Krull were un- a.bl&. to. place· among 'the· firBt three, th~ fullm~t· ll:ming~ left at. the start and €huck still nursing. a. bad leg, The quar.ter-mile r.ace· was taken by Woo-d, Rooh.ester. Wood did the first. iulllong:, in M. seconds flp;t and then!. went on. t~ finish in 51.4. Vi Fryer aad .Tack R:oss finished at two se~~~ond· intenvals •behind Wood. PhiW}l~ star distance- man fur the l'.ello:wj1.\.ck;et squad, was pushed to hiac utmost:.. in tho half-mile by Jercy Neumallll. Jerry kept at the fol'mw's heelS tln:ough.out the• l'ace· e.nd · finislled a;bout a y.ard: in. the van. '!!he: w.Jnning time. was, clocked at 2':1l4i4o 'fhe hlg:h hiUdle ev.ent was taken ilL 16.6.b¥ Clal'Jt Shields wbo. x:an.. a, bll8olltif.ul. race to turn In his ·best time tc date. llalitAMlo Win.B.'. :Jjld:. Bastedo wa-s 9*tended to bea:t. out :&'hillips. in the: t:w.o~mile· r.a.ce. Ttl~ fisld remailla.d! 'W~ll •bunched for til.& fust mil&, clocked a,t; 5:20.2. At th~ halft..wa.y: mark, Ed decided to staillt tllllning and jumped out in front:. Phillips, how.ev.er, came rl~ht •hack -with a sudden spu~:t of Ill$ o.w:n:. and, p,:assed Bastedo on tlle back. stretcl!, This display of bad mann.tus. Mlnoy.ed Ed, so he im- media.tel~ p.ass.e<l. Phillips again and at the: and -of tll.e seventh lap held a lead; of fiof.ty. ~a;rdl$. At this point, his P!ll1sislent oppoonent surplised the cnowd b,.: a second: sprint which neal!l~ ca.ug:_:ht Ed asleep. Less than a yal!di separated the two runnel's at til& finlsh. . Bastedo won in 10:20,8j the :fastest time he has ever doni!, M:il\ate trailing for the en- tire· me&, sprinted fol' the entire last la11 toe pass_ the second Roch- ester mBiJl, 1'loll third place. V:a:w Wert came through In the ,pole vault: to tie Bur.ton fox· first with.• a. jJlinD of 10 feet 9 inches. Fishell~ w.aa. lending Shields in the low lnwdi~ .by three yards at the last hurdle In the lo:ws. Curiosity g;~t tha· best< of him, however, and he ltl.oked aeowuL to see whexe Clark w.as, lilst. his stride and Shieltls, won ,~ two inches. Milano came. In- w:lth a. dt•iv:~ng finisll to take third plaae fnr Union. Hirst came- iJL a. Clio-se se<lond to Bassage in the 220-yo.r.ch dash in one of the fastest! naees of the day, Bassage stopping tha watches at 22.2 sec- onds. .Alex Brzostowski hurled the j,avelln 155 feet for his best of the yea.r tD ta;ke a:n easy first. Bloom w.as third to WaesdoJ.:p by a fl!ll.etion of an inch. Hir.st ca;me out ah.ead in the broad: jJ.Ull.p with a leap of 21' 4\. This. was also his best perfbrmance of tll.e- yea.r in this event. Rach- esten took second and thii·d. Belay. A. Faroe Coach K:etz, running the retay at llb.a request of the Rochester autllor.lties, bad the satisfaction of winning the fluke race of the meet. Roc!Ulsrer haa a l'elay team that undev nor.JDa.-1 circumstances can put on a: good race with any of their opponents, but Coach Gor- ton's men had an off day and the Garnet came In ahead. Neumann ra.n first foCJI\ the Garnet team and passecl the baton to Wally Hughes with• a:> ya.~.d lea;d. sm.v.ensop.. pass~ ed the. stick to Fogel'ty, number The ciga-rett'e industry could never have been what it i's except for these modern ciga- rette macht2tes •• • They make good cigarettes and smokers know each individual cigarette receives the mest care- ful inspection. You.' d hardly. believe s.uch attention tr; rktail possible un- le-s.s: y.ou cottld we it with y.our own eyes.. When the Chesterfield tobacco comes to the cigarette making machines it has been blended and cross-blended. Then it is cut into long even shreds just tae right size m smoke right and bar.n right. Ev.ery Chestexfield Cimuette has to be perfectly made to g~ by our inspect<>rs. Until yoa open the packa~ yourself the cigarettes are,scarcely touched by hu.man hands. Mild ripf! tobaccos, sld!led worker.r ant! the most modem up-to-date n1achi'nery all help to make Ckesterfield the dgarette tfutt smilder, the cigarette that tastes better. Stickmen Show Powe1· Hold- ing Formidable Swarthmore Ten to Four Goals Playing a contest that was more reminiscent of a football game on an icy, wet day in November than a spriug sports contest in May, the varsity lacrosse team played brill- iantly last Friday afternoon losing to a superior. veteran Swarthmore ten on the Library field, 4 to 1. De- spite the difference in expe1 ience of the two teams, the Dutchmen pte- sented one of the strongest defenses that has been shown thus far in the season. Bea.t (J, C. N. Y., Lehigh With record·ed victories over C. c_ N. Y. and J.,ehigh, the Swarthmore team arr,ived at Schenectady de- cidedly the favorite in the after- noon's battle. But a surprising de- fense and an even more surprising attack by the Union team gave the Little Quakers quite a scare. With the ram dom_g its most to discour- age any spectatot·s, although many braved the elements to watch the contest, the afternoon would have been a dull one had it not been for the wide-awake playing of the Union men. Price, -last year's captain of the Swa1·thlnore ten, scored the first goal of the day after more than nine minutes of frustration. His goal, spectacular as it was when he ran almost di1 ectly up the field to score, was overshadowed by the tally made by Hugo Bet gman two minutes later which tied the score. Jack Smith, ever on the alert, passed the .ball to one of the Union men in front of the Swarthmore net. The ball, as it dropped squat ely before the cage was scooped up on a sweeping golf shot by Bergman to account for the Dutchmen's first goal. With the score tied in the second period, the more experienced Penn- sylvanians began to work for their points. Peters and Perkins tallied at the beginning of the period, and 1Jhen for the remainder of the fra.me Swarthmore was kept on the defensive. ----o~-- FROSH LOSE 1'0 DEERFIELD The freshman luc1osse team auf- fend its second setback of the sea- son last Ftlday losing to the Deer- field Academy team 1{).4. Art Law- rence, who scored twice, Lenny Schultz and Howie Thompson, who scored once apiece, and Lew Laur- enski were outstanding for the Union team. ---Do--- ATHLETIC NO'l'ICE Members of the class of 1938 who w1sh to be-come candidate managers of fall sports next Se!}tember should report to the director of athletics as soon as possible. There are four fall spot ts open to competition, var- sity football and cross-country, and freshman football and cross-coun- try. ---0--- SI'IIHW SHOI<} MEETING There will be a meeting of the Spiked Shoe Society tomonow night at 8 o'clock in the Trophy Room of the gymnasium. Three Union Golfers Meet llamHton in Match A heavy schedule is on hand for the varsity golf team this week, for after playing Hamilton today on the Mohawk golf course, the divot men will travel to Middlebury Thursday to engage the formidable Vermont squad. • The Garnet club men will at- tempt today to duplicate their first victory over the Buff and Blue, us- ing a slightly different six-man team line-up than that which start- ed at Clinton two weeks ago. Ph1l Little and Ralph Thatcher will make up the number one squad in the four-ball matches, with Captain Bob Langer and Ken Bt•own play- inP,' as the second team. Monroe Froelich and Bill Jenkins, who is getting his fil\st taste of varsity competition today, will complete the l_Tnion lineup. Union Won First Match In the first match which the Un- ion golfers played thi.s year, the Hamilton team was downed 6 to 3. Since then the Clintonites have been practicing, unde1 the leader- ship of their star golfer, Captain Dick McGovet·n, to prevent the Dutchmen fron1 canying away a second victory. Captain McGovern and Jack Sa- bine, the only victors against any of the Union men in the fitst meet, will make up the first team for the Buff and Blue. John Urmson and John Massoth will be the second pair, wh1le John Edwards and an- other player will complete the Hamilton team. The match this afternoon is scheduled for 4:30 o'clock on the Mohawk course.

.. Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MAY 7, 1935 Local Dust Storms Monntebanl{s- W eek:end Guests-- Officers of Activities Occur Says Smith <Continued rrom Page ll h h d . ___ <Continued from Pae:e 1.) ave a expenence with the Civic - All' activity budgets :!lor 1935-36 Players. An exhibition illustrating the Six students accGmpanied by Pro- who ·has drunk too much, ami the must be in the hands of the tax Geology Professm· Describes Local Dust Clouds, Blames Overcultivation Others In the cast are Sebastian,. critical investigation of the many fessor E. S. C. Smith and Mrs. .fact that ther;e were none in that committee by 1:00 p. m. on Wed- Wallace R. Hughes; Antonio, Ralph phases of the automobile accident Frederick W. Toppan. Gf the Geol- condition that I saw made it a!!! nesday,. 'They shou'ld be given to Cohen; a sea captain, Hyman A.· question conducted this year by .the ogy Department w!H leave FI'iday much pleasanter.\ Burton Delack, Beta Theta' ·Pi Enzer; \Valentine Bernard Salad. class .in \methods aud problems\ to attend the 1936 meeting of the There were only two complaints house; Don. Miller, :Sigm!J. Chi Curio, Melvin I. Muroff· Fabian' course, wi'll be opened· tomorrow New York State Geological Asso- that ·she could find against the house; Richard Snyder, Alpha Del- Willlam W. Mulvey; offic'ers, Ches: .for the students and teachers in elation at Utica, May 10 and 11.. week,end: the weather, and the fact ta Phi· house;. or to the Student Schenectadians reading about 1\1. Little and J. Lawrence Hennes- 30 high schools in the Capital Dis- The students: Alvin Van Valk- that the Van Curler 'Tap Room. was Activities office. Please try to have the disastrous dust storms of the sey; pl'iest, Dona:ld Hotaling.; ser- trict. enburg, '36; Benjamin Wilson, '36; t0o crowded. \The only time .though all budgets in by the time men- West need not go a thousand miles vant, Benfiamin Cohen. The ex,hibition is the f-irst of its Williatn Parker, '36; Richard Vos- that the weather proved to be a Honed. It is very necessa•ry that to see them, but merely to go to Taking its scene of action In the kind by a course in the social st1,1d- burgh, '37; Gordon Thornton, '37; nuisance wa:s on .Saturday night this be dane. ::.orne !ugh point near the city to mythical land of Illyria, a land of if's division. It represent the work Robert North, '36, are men who when we went from one house to see dust clouds about 1,900 feet music, the play is full of compli- whkh has been done during the have shown ·Special interest in geol- another, and as for the tap-room, high, according to Professor Ed- c-ated luove affairs. The theme of past year by 100 sophomores study-; ogy. · well, the chaperol!'es seemed .to find' -~~-·o~---- Philomathean Notice· wal'd S. C. Smith, head of the geo- the ,plu~·, that love k; a matter of ing with Professors Harold A. La.r-· l<\\ield excursions -in the vicinity it a popular place.\ logy department. obsession and the imag·ination rath- rabee and Philip Stanley in which ,of Clinton, Utica, and Little Falls \i don't know whether you'd :want In his address bE'fore the month- e1 than of the t1·ue heart, is humor- they attempted to integrate applied will be conducted Friday and Sat- to use this in your story\ she said All members ·of the Phlloinath- ly luncheon meeting of the Sche- ous!y followed out in the action. logic and economics, government urday. The annual :meeting and as. the ~eporter prepared to leave ·ean ·society who are on committees nectady County Alumni Associa- Viola, dressed as a man in the ser- and history in their project con- banquet of the association will take· \but I overheard a rather amusing for the debating conference in .AI-· tion, Profe>-so 1 • Smith spoke of the vice of the >Duke of Illyria, falls in cerning the automobile accident ·place Friday evening at the Hotel remark made by a girl Friday\ He bany, Friday, sh.ould b'( sure to. use of g£•ology, both for the lay- love with him. while he>. not know- problems. Utica. The excursions will visit stayed and after hearing the story ·com~ to the Old Chapel· Wedne~day men seeking to know more about ing her sex, falls in Jove with Olivia. Among the displays are models numerous localities iHustrating gla- decided >to pass it on. One of the evening, 7:00 p. m. to discuss plans the sculpture of the earth's sur- Viola, as his· servant, is constantly showing common causes of auto cial geolog~, an~· the group~ will guests had remarlted upon the size for the convention. This meetin&\ face. and the professional man who placed in the painful position of accidents, photographs of accidents coll.ect fossils which abound m the and shape of the library when she is important. All members piease mwt depend upon knowledge of rarrying love notes for the man loaned by the NPw York State Po-. r~gwn. They will also view the first saw i.t Friday afternoon. When be present. H1e l'arth's science to carry on his she loves herself. Having disg·uised lice, spot maps of the city of Sche- 'LI.ttle FaHs ~ori;Se of t?e Mohawk she next had the opportunity of see- work. herself lilte her bi·other, a furor is nectady indicating the places River which IS mterestmg because ·ing it, it was later that night, and In speaking of the great forces created when he ·appears on the where accidents took place, numer- .of the numerous pot-holes to be by that time the big gas tank over which control the surface of the· scene and' fans in Jove with Olivia, ous charts and statistical studies roun~ there. by the 'locomotive works was .Jit up earth, Professor Smith said it was who had already become attracted dealing with such matters as li- . Unwn was h~s~ to the Association in its arresting red glory. The girl not the occasional, dramatic, E:>arth- to Viola dressed as a man. The censing, obsolescence, highway m 1930, .entertaining over three hun- l'oolted at ·it rather questioningly for quake, or glacier, or volcanic erup- Dulre finally finds that he does not lighting, safety education enforce- dred students and faculty members a moment, then .turned to her es- tions, w·hich caused the most dam- love Olivia and he marries Viola, ment, and many other subjects. of various colleges and universities cort with a 1augh \Gee\, she said CHARLES' Fo~~~~Y .. The Official Union College Barber for the past 24 years. Ask any · upper classmen, they know. 11 operators. Schenectady's greatest · · barber. · · COR, STATE AND BROADW.Ur · age, but the everyday forces with whi!'e Viol'a's brother marries The students who participated in of ~ew York. Prof.essor Smith was \that's some library that you put which we deal: the wind, running Olivia. the project will explain the signi- president at the tlme. red lights all over!\ · str\eams and waves of bot.lies of Tickets for \Twelfth Night\ may ficance of the material on exhibi- ------------~--- :::;;;;;;=:=:=:=:=:;;=:=:=:;;=:=:;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;g water. be secured at the News Bureau, tion. This is the first time that the School, Cohoes High School, Goble- If IUan at Fault from 1:30 to 3:30 o'clock, beginning pub_lic has. been given· an oppm·-. skill High School, Mechanicville It is the wind which is the im- tomori,ow. tumty to see in graphic form the High School Saratoga Springs mediate cause of the dust-storms ---G---- results of college work done out- High School',' Ballston Spa High but it is man who is the real cause: D1·. F()~ Add1·esses Inter- side the scientific and engineering School, Burnt Hills-Ballston Lake For it was man who during the N t • 1 R t departments. High School, Woestina High war period, when cereals were a IOna' 0 at·y at Rye Among the high schools invited: School, MGnt Pleasant High School, high priced, overcultlvated the dry to the exhibition are: Albany High Nott Terrace High School, Draper lands that received barE'ly enough President Dixon. Ryan Fox will School, Albany Academy, Christian ~igh ~?chool, Mohawk School, .Sco- water to support th<' stubble of be the principal speaker at the 29 th Brothers Academy, Milne High tia High School, Altamont High buffalo grass. In the intensive District Conference of the Intema- School, Delanson High School . School, Waterford High School, farming that was required, the soi'l t' 1 R Rensselaer High School, Bethlehe~ H';ldson Fall.s High School, and 10na olary clubs ut Rye tomor- C t 1 H' h s St 11 t H h S h 1 was drained of its moisture .by t\'e D en ra 1g chool, Vincentian I wa ei' Ig c oo. 11 row. 'r. Fox will speak at ·lunch- I t't t w deep plowing and with the absence h h ns I u e, . i!bur H. Lynch High o--- -- eon w ic will wind up the two day s h 1 T c t of the water storing buffalo grass 1 · c oo •. roy oun ry Day School, SOCIAL STUDIES NOTICE mee Ings. Other speakers will be T H h s h 1 c The Gazette Press P·RI NTERS top, the soil loosened its shape and F k roy Ig c oo, a.tbolic Central ran Vanderlip, Gerald Swope H' h S h 1 f T W b~cam.P dust. Now a strong puff of and Gordon Liverman. ' rg c 00 o roy, atervliet Dr. Mosley's Social Stud.ies 21 will wmd IS enough to raise a dust ________________ _:H:_::_::ig::..:.:.h_S:::.c=ho=ol:..:_,~L=an:::si~n~g~b~u~r~·g:__:H:i~g~h~m~e~e~t~o~n~W~e~d:n;e~s~d~a;.y~, ;M~ay~8~at~1~0~:2~0~.:!:~~~~:::~::::::::::::::::~~=~==::::=:==:=::=~~~==~=~ cloud. About fkht>nect:~rly Professor Smith has frPquE>ntly SPE'n dust clouds nearly 2,000 feet high. The on!;- pl'P\'e>ntati\•e, he said, is to plant g-ra~\• or better 'till, trees in t·hese dry regions. 'The wind also abrades the rocks which may be exposed to the weather causing such queer shapes - be<~.utiful to tourists-- as man-like tlgmes on mountains. The running streams cause deep valleys, such as the Grand Canyon. whilE' the waves of the lake shores change our waterfronts. Summe>r' MP~>tings The Alumni association will meE>t during the summer months at the Mohawk School where spo1t and a supper will be the program in- stead of luncheon and a speake!'. The first such twilight meeting will be in July. Stan!E'y Joseph, '21, c-hairman of the recent dance committE'e, re- ported $140 profit which will go to- ward a scholarship for a Schenec- tady boy next fall. ----0------ Model Council- (Continued from Page 1) the Soviet Union during the session on Japa11ese Mandates in the Pa- cifio Ocean. He argued successfully fur this question to be placed. be- fui·e the Permanent Court of Inter- national Justice instead of a body of juu::;ts. The ltalian-Ethiopian dispute was arranged by a sub- committee meeting of which Clark Cummings of the Soviet delegation was the chairman, to be submitted to arbitration o[ representatives of the nations concerned a:nd a disin- terested party. Olson Represents Russia Tlie tapp<,l'lelir's report on the Memel situation was accepted upon the congratulatory motion of the Soviet delegate. Carl Olson sat for the Soviet Union on the question of Minorities and John Hall an- nounced to the Council the recent pact between France and the U. S. S. R. Union rE>presentatives were also active in the session on Sanc- tions, which topic was added to the agenda at their proposal. GeorgP Haskell succeeded in having the Council accept the Litvinov defin- ition of the aggressor nation. The second added subject to the Council agenda was the German 1 e-nrmament problem. Richard Snyder. who acted as German dele- pte throughout the whole meeting also spokP for the Third Reich in t:Ji, ~cosiun. The la~t two items on the agrnda provldul the most inter- ..,t ing di;,cw<,;ions. Carlton Garrison act td fur Chile in the ai.Jsence of \\'el:,; Cul:l'ge 1 c·pl csentatl\·e:-;. Gar.- ri.\)un ai.:--u \\d.~ ufficial ub~cl vcr f<JI' the Union t.lelcgation. Thi::; se,;,ion of the Council was rnarked Ly tLc Vel): cuidial !ela- tions existing between the nations prcocnt ar.d inte1 nationali:;m w.as ·!Jl'Omincnt in many de!icatc ~ftu~ atiuns. The mcetihg wa::; cuncludeu with a critiquf· of the procc·ctlings IJY Dr. Philip Mosley of l:niun, who complimented the visiting delega- tions on thcii· conduct and .pr.epar- ation. ---at---- FRESHMAN HYGIENE EXA..'\1 ' Tbe frehman hygiene exam will' take, place on Monday, May 13, at 4:30 o'clock in the Old Chapel, Above all 9~ Others may disappoint. I never do. I'm always mild, always fine to taste- because I'm made of fragrant, expensive ct!nter leaves, only. Turn yDur back on top leaves. They're raw, hitter, stinging. Turn your back on bottom leaves. They're coarse, sandy, grimy. Before I consider it worthy, <:!very leaf must be a center leaf, mild, fine-tasting, fragrant. I do not irritate your throat. Above all---J'm your best friend. Copyright 1935, The Amorlcnn Tobll<lco Company. TUNE IN-Luckies are on the, elr Sattudays, with TEE HIT PARADE, over NBC Network B to 9 p, m. E. D. s. T. I I I I t v ( ( R GI on Sa sp Ri m: aJ Cl se Sa B. Vl fll m Iy '3f pr ye ut Ia be m of 10 te n< Iu TI m cr 6: sa T: cl in ce or Vii of tll y, &t P< nE m w m cc ut tl:J fi: 0 tit of a! a I w cc gl je cc er at h: to u u s .i

ed.- ·to Pi ent en- .Al- to . I I I I 'Twelfth Night' A I Roliickino· L--~~:~~~- Vol. LVIII., No. 57 • .f '•L , I I . ~· 'l UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, MAY 10,1935 • •••a•a•:~~••••••.,... Silver Anniversary Of Graduate Council PRICE FIVE CENTS Graduate Council Alumni Have Lead Roles In tTwellth Night' Mountebanks Players Give Celebrate 'Twenty-Fifth Year Hilarious 'Twelfth Night' Representatives of Classes Since 1875 'Will Meet On• Campus 'i~omorrow to Commemm~ate Found· ·Romantic Comedy of Music Given Tonight, Tomorm t·ow and Monday Nights, and Again on June 7 For Returning Alumni and Friends ing of Council in 1910 (,!\>•--------------- ~ Begun by Richmond Oppenheim, McClellan, Wald- ron, Richards, Van Vlack Served 25 Years The Silver Anniversary of the Graduate Council will be celebrated on the campus by that organization Saturday, at the time of its annual spring meeting. Founded by Charles Alexander Richmond in 1910, the Council has maintained a st1 ong and active alumni organization for 25 years. Charles N. Waldron, '06, permanent secretary, Louis Oppenheim, '75, Samuel P. McClellan, '81, Frederick B. Richards, '88, and Wagner Van Vlack, '00, joined the Council at the first meeting called by Dr. Rich- mond, and have served continuous- ly since. Chester Malcolm Rhoades, '35, was elected to represent the present senior class earlier this year. Following a meeting of the Exec- utive Committee Friday, the regu- lar program of the Anniversary will begin Saturday morhing with a meeting of the Council in Room 106 of the Engineering Building at 10:20. The representatives will at- tend the Hamilton track meet at noon and will be served a buffet luncheon in Silliman Hall at 12:30. The afternoon will be free for the members to view the baseball, la- crosse and tennis· games, and at 6:00 p. m. the Twenty-fifth Anniver- !'lary dinner will be served in the Trophy Room of the Gymnasium. Elections on Docket The docket of the meeting in- cludes the appointment of the Nom- inating Committee which will pre- cede the election of a 1·epresentative on The Athletic Board to succeed William C. Yates, '98, the election of a member-at-large to complete the unexpired term of John C. Van Yoast '87, deceased, and the rein- statement of absent members. Re- ports of committees, action on busi- ness presented by Executive Com- mittee, unfinished and new business will oc.cupy the rest of the time. Since 1910, the Council has done much to organize the alumni into a compact group which has contrib- uted a great deal to the welfare of the college. There are now nine fireproof steel filing cabinets in the Council office in the Administra- tion Building containing data, much of which is complete, on some 12,000 alumni. Many of the documents and objects of historical interest, which are now the property of the college have been collected by this group. Among these historical ob- jects are the Ramee plans of the college and Dr. Nott's correspond- ence. The Council also identified and marked the paintings now hanging in the Chapel, and brought together the Wells drawings of Union's famous sons which hang in the balcony. Active in Commencement festiv- <Continued on Page 4> Social Studies Class Presents Safety Exhibit An auto safety exhibit was pre- sented by the social studies class in. \Methods and Problems\ on the second floor of Bailey Hall from 2 to 6 Wednesday afternoon. :Remling frDm left to right: Dowling, Stroebel, and HHskell, who will play the comedy roles of Sir Toby Belch, Sir Andrew Aguecheek, and Feste in ronight's performance. -Photo by News Bureau. Philosophy Seminal' To Be Held at Colgate Five upperclassmen from Mr. PhHip Stanley's class in contemp- orary problems in philosophy left early this afternoon for Hamilton, N. Y., where they will take part in a two-day exchange seminar in philosophy with a similar group of The exhi·bit was a result of the study of the auto safety pmblem, which the sophomores have been investigating since February. Chosen because it presented so many interesting phases, this mod- ern social problem allowed the class to study a;ctual conditions in the light of the applied lo,gic of the first half year of the course. Colgate students. Council Approves Watrous Talks On uJ:~;: fi:omt~ni:s~~~io~~ll ~~~·~ Endow ·m·entPro]'ec·t HI\ 9 tory f A t Leonard Eisenbud, Milton Berger, ;:, 0 f and Joseph Woolman, of the class of 1935, and Van Trumbull and Insurance Plan of Henry P. Gulnac, '34, to Create $50,000 Fund The main aim of the study was not to \train traffic officers\ but to find out what is actually known a'bout the pro,blem. Actual observ- attion of traffic violations was necessary in some coases, and it was the results of these observations An insm:ance plan to provide the that, together with posters and· college with a fif'ty thousand dollar pamphlets on the subject, made up endowment in 20 years was tenta- the greater part of the exhibit. tively accepted by the Student Toy autos and pipe-cleaner men Council at a recent meeting, pend- were used to show eight common ing the approval of the student ~auses of accidents. body at large. ---- This plan, the suggestion of P npt'Dlar Bar I. t 0 n e Henry P. Gulnac:, '34, would create lU' a a life insurance endowment which To G. I • v e c 0 n c e·r t would accrue to the college in 20 years. A tax of $3.20 from each John Charles Thomas to Sing At Final Concert of Civic Music Association John Charles Thomas, m<lst pop- ular of American baritones today, will give the final concert of the Civic Music Association Thursday evening, May 16, at 8:30 o!cJock at the Mont Pleasant High School. His scheduled appearance here last March was postponed because of illness. At that time Ignaz Fried- man, pianist, was brought as an ad- ditional artist. Mr. Thomas, who first popular- ized \Home On the Range,\ well- known to Union students, in his radio broad~asts and concerts, began his public career in Broad- way light opera. His most mem- orable roles we1·e in \Apple Blo::;- som.s\ and \Maytime.\ After suc- cessful ap)Jearances with European opera companies and the Chicago Ope1a Company here he made his debut at the Metropolitan Opera House in February, 1934. As Germont in \La Traviata\ he was greeted with the outstanding· ovation o( the year. The perform- ance was given for the benefit of the Vassar College Scholarship Fund. Tlle P''ogram for the Thomas con- cert will be one which he has given in New York and should be mar!1ed by the breadth of appeal found in all of his selections. Members of the Civic Music Association will be admitted upon presentation of their membership <:a1·ds with stubs at- tached. No tickets fot• non-mem- bers will be a. voailable. student would pay the premiums on the life insurance p<llicies of 20 stu- dents selected at random. Each policy, according to the proposal would have a face value of $2,500, made <Jut in favor of the college. The endowment, payable in 1935, would be the face amount of the policies, $50,000.00, plus dividends, which, on the basis of 1934, would amount to $11,548, making a total of $61,548. The annual premium of $2,400 over a period of 20 years would make a total cost of $48,000 and the net profit $13,548. In the event of the death of one of the 20 insured students, that policy would automatically mature, the cost would be reduced .one- twentieth, and the profit corres- pondingly increased. The P.ndowment would be used for some such purpose as the build- ing of a college union. The p1 o- posal, considered supe1ior lo an ordinary tax, would enable the en- tire otudent body to pariit'ipate In a larger gift than is usually pos- sible. The recent vote of the student body at the Student Council elec- tions indicated that the plan is gen- erally favored, but an official vote must be taken before the plan i::; finally adopted. ---0·--- Hanson Goes to Williams As Exchange P1·ofessor Robert Langer '36. Mr. Stanley will accompany the group. At each of the two sessions of the seminar, this evening- and tomorrow Newly Appointed Honorary Fellow in Art Recounts Amusing Anecdotes · morning, one representative from each college will read a paper on the subject ·for that session. Leo- Harry Willson Watrous, honor- nard Eisenbud and Harlow D. Os- ary fellow in art and president ·Of borne have been selected to pre- the National A<>ademy association sent twenty-minute papers on reminisced yesterday morning in \Method in Philosophy\ tonight. Bailey Hall, and he gave his audi- At tomorrow morning's meeting, ence a new conception of the ar<t- Van Trumbull and H. C. Warnick ist-one of a ma.-· 1 with the sime jr. will read essays on the question, likes and dislikes and habits as the \The Value of Philosophy.\ Ab- average listener present. stracts of all four papers were pre- pared in advance and sent to all Tracing the hlistory of art in the the participants in order to facili- United States by treating the names tate the discussion. of the men who made it, Mr. Watr<>us, a small, genial man with bushy white eyebrows and a well-' kept mustache, drew on a large store of personal recollection as he spoke of more recent painters. Artists with 01bsessions are an old· Four Men Elected To Model Council story with Mr. Watrous. There was Palmatiet·, Honikel Chosen As the tragic Ralph Blakelock, who,· h·3.d he not been a painter, would Delegates; Stewart, MeKen- have been an eminent musician an·d ~omposer. So wrapped up he was zie as Alternates in music that he played to hi.s pict- ures to get the effects he personally wanted to see in them. A .poor man with seven children, he was severely reproached when his wife gave birth to an eighth child. \Look here, Watrous,\ he replied. \You really don't understand this. I have seven children now, and all I wanted to do was to complete the octave.\ Cox Self-Centered Kenyon Cox. whom Mr. \Vatrous te1·med the besi Amerk:m draught!'- man, •but an artist whoi\e colors will impi'OVP with ngP. \'as absolutely incapable of considering anything else other than what he had at lumd qt the moment. On day in his. <>tudio, the small stove used fm· :.eating went out, and his model, posing in the nude. complained of the N>ld. She r<>markPd sar<>astic- ally that it was rather chilly, and Cox. still wrapped up in his work, got up and donned his overcoat. At the elections of the Model Council of the League of Nations Wednesday afternoon John Hall '3G was appointed chairman of the Council to replace Charles Frost, '35, Thomas Palmatier ':16 and Charles Honikel '38 were chosen delegates, and Norman R. Stewart '37 and James W. McKenzie '37 were elected alternates. The new chairman was a mem- ber of the Model Assembly and the Model Council during the past yeur, and ha::; been uu the Deans Li:;t. Hi::; hometown is Stillwater. Tlwma::; Palmatier is a m~mber of the Delta Phi fraternity, and has maintained a Dean::; Lil:lt ::;tanding. The other delegate, Charles Honi- kd il3 on the Sophomore Board of the Concurdiensis and a m.,mber of the varsity debating team. The two ulteruate:; are both n1en1ber::; of the sophomore class and were on the Deans List during their first year. Norman Stewart is n member of the Chi Psi ft·uternity, a candi- date for manager for fall sports, and on the Junior Board of the bi- weekly, and McKenzie who be- longs to Theta Delta Chi Is on the varsity lacrosse squad. Comedy Trio Leads Stroebel, Dowling and Haskell Play Impol'tant Roles In Last of Productions The th1 ee best comedians in the Mountebanks organization, George W. Stroebel, '35, John B. Dowling, '37, and George P. Haskell, '37, will tonight give Shakespeare's \Twelfth Night\ the zest and entertainment which that play had when it was first produced over 300 years ago. Stroebel, taking his last part in a Mountebanks production, will play the comic lead of Sir Andrew Ague- cheek, the old fop who is gulled into all sorts of scrapes by his drinking companion, Sir Toby Belch, played by Dowling. Added to these two comic characters is Feste, the clown, whose wit make~ the trio of comedy complete. Hcw- kell takes this part. Dress rehearsals showed \,hat this play, hailed as a romantic comedy of music and one of Shakesp.eare's best, will undoubtedly be one of the most popular of the Mountebanks' productions in recent years. Ad- vance reservations have been large for each night's performance. Sets Experimental \Twelfth Night,\ essentially a \comedy of errors\ is the subject of experimentation by the Mounte- banks as they have garbed their actors in Grecian costumes, and have provided expressionistic sets as a background for the comedy. August Swyka, '36, Mountebanks scenic designer, has constructed sets which consist of basic designs of circles, curves, angles and plat- forms. Equipped with plumes on their hats, leather corselets, lea- ther and metal puttees and shields, the actors .of \Twelfth Night\ pre- sent a brilliant spectacle. These unique costumes were brought di- rect from New York especially for this produ~tion. They are similar to the ones used in the New Yol'i~ production of \The Warrior's Hus- band.\ This production, the last of the Mountebanks' regula.r play:; for this year, will contain an unusually large cast. V>allace T. Foote, '36, lead man in the preceding produc- tions this year, will lead the sub- plot with the role of Orsino, the love-sick Duke of Illyria. The lead- ing female role of Viola is played by Mrs. Hawthorne Deming of Schenectady, Other important roles are Malvollo, played by Ferdinand Helm, jr., '37 of Schenectady; Oli- via, Miss Viola Van Laak of Sche- nectady; Maria, Miss Bet tha Lloyd of Schenectady; Sebastian, Wallace R. Hughes, '37, of Chicago; Antonio, S. Ralph Cohen, '37, of Elizabeth, N.J.; Valentine, Bernard Salad, '37, (Continued on Page 4) Schenectadians Bear Charmed Lives As They Promenade Across Streets Dr. Ira B. Hanson, assistant pro- fessor of biology left today for Wil- liams College where he will spend the weekend as an exchange profes- or of ·biology. This will complete the arran:gements begun last month whereby leading research teachers of neighboring colleges ha. ve been exchanging with Union professors for brief periods, meeting students in informal sessions. Dr. Hanson will be the guest to- night of Dr. Allyn J. Waterman, professor of biology at Williams who spent the weekend at Union last April. The Williams biology staff will also entertain Dr. Han- son tonight and discuss with him his researches in the field of the malP sex hormones. Mr Watrol,l\q \olq of ~lih1,1 V~;\ddPI'; who spent most of his life in Rome, ~.nd who demanded that his co-ck- tails be made first and the mara- schino cherries put in afterward, .because in that way he got more liquor. Vedqer achieved an envi- able reputation In Rome as a racon- . eur, by the process of collecting all the Rabelaisian stories on his rounds of the clubs when he visit- ed New York, translating them into Italian, and ·bringing them back to the Roman clu'bs. \Thought of usually as the in- ventor of the telegraph, Samuel Finley Breese Morse is one of the greatest artists that this country has ever produced,\ Mr. Watrous said, and he called Benjamin West the man who has had the most in- fluence on American painters. 'Tobacco Leads to Vice and Slavery' Sf!YS Writer in Old College Magazine· Modern cigarette companies wo·uld poised upon two legs; their mouths not be pleased with the following emitting smoke like the pipes of a a1·ticle, written against and outlin- steamer; and their conversation- lug the disastrous results upon stu- no! We cannot imagine them thus. dents of the evils of tobacco, which Can such an one be honest? appeared in the May 1834 number The use of tobacco is inconsistent of The Censor. the college literary with the intellectual pursuits of the magazine of that day. The worthy student. The mind is too sen:sitive author of the article writes: \The a plant to thrive amidst noxiou 13 habit is anti-social, and so it is re- weeds and smoke. I assert also that gardcd in polisbed and refined soci- the use of tobacco leads to vice. I ety. Are cigars or toba!'co passed am suppm·ted in this position by around ·in yom parlor at home? Dr. Miller, who says: 'If the mo::;t Certainly not! When there you us- servile votary of the cigar, the quid, ually resort to an hotel or a private or the snuff-box could take even a room if inclined to indulge in the glance at the ruined health the practice. For which how are you ti'embling nerves the impaired Editor's Note: This is the first In a series of four articles set- ting forth some of the ffudings of the local traffic study group of the Automo!Jile Safety pro- ject conducted this spring by the members of Social Studies 10, Methods and Problems. The group consisted of Arlington E. Baxter, '37, John R. Mills, '37, 81Dd Rft.ymond J. Zierak, '37. Are Schenectadians jaywalket s? Indeed they are! Persons in a posi- tion to judge have declared that Schenectady is one of the worst, if not the worst city in the whole country )n that respect. And yet its accidsnt record is comparatively a good one; as the recent winning of a safety co~;~test with Albany and Troy shows. What is the explan- ation? Do Schenectadians bear charmed lives as they blithely wan- der from curb to cu~b in almost complete disregard of tra.ffic sig- nals and uninterested police offi- cers? Or is there actually lel:lll jay- walking than people think there is? One way to find out is to count noses. systematically, and see what the results show. A few weeks ago the local police authorities an· nounced a traffi cdrive against all manner of violations, especially parking, but also including (even- tually) jaywallting. It was stated that the ddve would begin on Mon- day morning, April 15. The local traffic study group decided to malt\l a check before the drive began, and then to continue checking wrile the drive was in progress to Fee whether any changes took place. The location chosen fo1 the count was that strip of State Street lying between the crossilig at Jay Street and the safety island at Broadway. There are no legal cross-walliS any- where in that area, which is bound- ed on two sides by some of Sche- nectady's busiest department stores. Observers counted all pe1·sons crossing the street in either dkec- tion during 10-minute periods from (Continued on Page 4) Tomorrow Dr. Hanson wil spt>ak to ·williams students majoring in embry>ology, and discuss his own 1 esearches in the \bodily response to the male sex ·hormone in 'birds and mammals.\ This series of faculty exchanges is intended to give both the stu~ dents and the faculty of one lnsli tu- tion an opportunity to con·fer with resea1·ch workers of othe•· Institu- tions. .--------a-- ·-- - PLEDGE NOTICE ''I have gone through all the 'isms' that have affected American art in the last years,'' he concluded. \Some have dried up and been wafted away, and from others we have learned someLhing,\ Goodrich-Duane Debates pr.e~aring? College is a world i.n m~ntal faculties, the miserable tlp- RPgistration .for the Goodrich· mmtature .. While t~e student lS· pluig habit, the d1sg 1 aceful slavery, Duant> Extemporaneous Debate will here, not only arc hrs mental fac- and the revolting fumes to which <'los<> on Saturday, May 11. The ulties attaining their growth .his they have conducted many an un- preliminary eliminations will 'be cha·racter and habits are als~ form- suspcct.ing dev~tee, he would fly held Thursday, May 16 at 1:30 p. m. ing. We are forced to admire the with horroJ• b f th · . in the Old Chapel. It is requested customs of the ancients In training . e ore even e poss!- that all candidittes register at the their youths to wru·. They were bl: approaches of the danger. The Student Activities Office prior to taught to eat, to drink, to sleep, to. thrrst excited by t?bacco must be noon on May 11. All should be live, with their great end contin- quenched with wme or s,pirits; The Sigma Chi fratemity an- punctual h1 attending the elimhi.- ually in thek eye. I cannot portray these fever the imagination, and nounces the pledging of Roger Bur- ations on the 16th. The general that band of yo!,lng men, their feet excite to that conversation whiCh is gess, '38, of Huntington, West Vir- topic: wlll be announced at that · upon the tables, or above their unbecoming in the mouth of any ginia, time~ heads upon the wall; their chairs· decent man.\ i i . \ ·I l '' . ' I 'i , I

Two \11 Causa Persll Parollf Assai\ FOUNDED 1877 MEM'BER ~sodaud CS'oll~giatt 'iJT~.55 \\1934 ®l-~;'\:11l~m 1\'>35 .. · IWl!SON V<1SCOI<Sitl Sole a.nd IDKclusive NatiOilal A.dve1tislng Repre- t3entaUve, National Advertising Service, Inc., 11 West 4Znd St., N. Y. c., 400 No. Michigan A.ve., Chicago, Illinois, Chicago-·wrigley Bldg., Boston, Mass. The C>fficial newspaper <>f the students of Union College. Published ':ruesdays and Fridays throughout the college year, except during Christmas and spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, :l34 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 40133. Senior Board Van Vechten Trumbull..,, ..•.. Editor-in-Ohief Della Ph! Eouse-4-0645 William H. Fitzgerald ...•... BU&iness Manager Delta Upsilon House-4-7922 John D. Anderson .... _ ....... Managing Editor Psi Upsilon House-4·8710 Albert H. Stevenson .............. Sports Editor Psi Upsilon House-4-8710 Robert C. North .................. News Editor Delta Upsilon House-4-7922 Wallace T. Foote ..• , .•....•.... Feature Editor Alpha Delta Pll! House-4·6729 Junior Board ASSOCIATE EDITO:RS Milton Bedell Richard Passenger Ralph Cohen Richard Snyder Fenton Gage Nor.man Stewart J. Bundgus R. Doig W. Dean Carlton Garrison Sophomore Board Asslstnnt Editors H. Enzer S:. Hartmann R. FergusC>n M. Muroff C. Honikel C. Trahman ~ssue Editor ............ Carlton Garrison Assistant Issue Editors Ralph Cohen Fenton Gage Friday, May 10, 1935 GRADUATE COUNCIL ANNIVERSARY The Graduate Council will celebrate its twenty-fifth anniversary May 11. For the last quartet· of a century this m·ganization has been gradually growing and contributing immeasurably to the welfare of the college, yet too often the student body fails to recog- nize its importance. In 1910 the college had no alwnni .recol'ds other than printed catalogues which gave in barest outline a few gTains of information about the lives of Union men. Now, thanks to the \Vork of the Graduate Council unde1· the supervision of a special committee, there are nine waterproof steel filing cases in the Council office with almost complete data about more than 12,0()0 alumni. ~n addition to these cm·efully-kept records, there are other cabinets containing historical files, pictures, and other valuable documents. The Council has salv2.ged much of this ma- terial from odd and dusty cm·ners. of forgot- ten attics, including the Ramee plans, Dr. N ott's correspondence, and mauy paintings which they have identified and mal\ked. From the very lJeginning of its exi::;tence, the Council has encom·aged Alumni g,·ather- ings and has made it easiet for graduates to keep i:n touch with the college a11d with each other. The formation of alumni organiza- tions throug-hout the country has been of particular value to the colleg-e. I 11 1911 the Alumni Monthly was first published to keep contacts alive among scattered graduates. Su~h services as these, and uncounted others, are of inestimable value to the college and the student body, as well as to the alumni themselves. The administration, campus organizations, and each individual student, all owe a distinct debt to the Grad- uate Council. An individual who has contributed much time, and who is to l2.rge extent responsible f~r the efficiency of this organization, works so quietly that many of us fail to appreciate the wide field of his inte1·est. Dr. Charles N. Waldron, secretal'Y of the colleg~. and secre- tal'Y of the Graduate Council, has for years devoted much energy to the welfare of the Council. To him and to the Council itself we extend our deepest appreciation for a continual in- tel·est in our development. ·\ THE CONOORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 10, 1935 FAITH, HOPE AND CHARITY I \Faith hope, and charity .•. Write six lettet.s to friends to whom you wish to bring prospet·ity ••. Omit the name at the top, 1.!;; __ =;;;;;;;;;=;;;;;;;;===================;:;!J EnergEtic Engineers put your own at the bottom. Sen.d ten cents . . . If you don't break the chain, you will re- ceive 15,0()0 letters containing· $1,500.\ This bt·ain-child is still nameless; at times we doubt its legitimaey. To the Edit()!': Hell, Open, Hell!!! (Hell opens, We wish t() paint ·aut to the read just in front of Memorial Chapel . P. s. vaults to ·the reof of Wash- ers ·Of the Concordiensis the .grave burn Hall, jolting down a beam injustice to t:he faculty of the ·Elec upon the cast of \Twelfth Night\) trical Engirieer.lng Depar.tment Arise, ye devils!! <Three devils done by the ·editorial · entitled arise. The first one wears a table- \Energetic E!ngineers/' * .. * These phrases are familiar to any of the dozens of iUnion students who have received any .of the \chain letters\ which have been flooding the mails in the last week or so The smoothly worded proposition is that you send six letters, each recipi.en t sends six, and so on. When the chain reaches the sixth gen- eration from you, your name will have ad- vanced to the top of the list, and all the members of that generation (maximum num- ber-theh sixth power of six), will send you a dime. Meanwhile, as a good s:po1t, you will have sent ten cents to the great-great-great- great grandparent of the letter you received Farrago's much admired line, \Don't get up Lily. I just came in to wash my hands.\ is a steal, we are told, from the old line \Don't ti·ouble to rise, Duchess. I just wanted a glass of water.\ cloth, the second a towel, and the., The facts of the case m·e tha th' d t Th · the members •Of the faculty have 1r a oupee. ey are called The given coope:ration in the work Three T's and during off hours do . which the A. I. E. H~. has been do a sister act over WGY.) Torment • .. * And now, right on schedule, we him!! (The ThreeT's go after Phil; ing. In the J;ll'eparation of the pa launch upon the second of our ser- Smith who turns upon them.) . pers which we .presented last Satur ies of impossible interviews. P. S.-(Leaning back •against the day :at the -convention in T-roy, cer Scene: A blarsted heath• heating plant chimney) • tain faculty 1nernbers assbted rna Thunder and Ughtnlng; enter Phil Disturb me not, ye demons dia- terially ill ·checking the results o Smith. bolic! experiments upon which the paper P. S.-Multiple, multiple travail and Nor no concatenation of hell's. were based, :and -in the interpreta molestation blows, tion of facts observed, Holocaust rage, and 'cauldron Nor ulululation of shrHI sound The ·faculty also cooperated effervesce. (With each of the last three lines a, whole-heartedly In the exhibit dur (He walks up and down, throw- devil falls) ing sub-fresh:tnan weekend. In fac ing chalk from one hand to Can cast suppression on me. regular laborat<>ry classes were sus the other,) (Lighting a cigarette) pended for a week in order tha Some strange ebulliance .pervades I can compose blank verse. That 'the studentB would have time to my being. h' hi · 'f\ t bl prepare .the exhibits. The :faculty A surp.t·ising number of intelligent people fall for this scheme. They do not realize that, with the number of letters in the chain in- was a tg Y Slgm !can • a no e members worked harder tha·n tt,e My polysyllabic ce~:ebration flows utterance! Now, I shall play my A-turgidly. I must leap. (He Ieap.s) trump. Faculty, assist me!!! The students, in many cases, to make <Enter from North College an Three T's, Aimee, and a terrific these exhibits a success. Uneavthly Glow. P. S. is frozen with shriek from Hell;-NO _ 0 _ 0 _ 0 _ Although we app:r.eciate the state terror and remains in mid-air. The 0 _ 0!!!!! ments made in the editorial in com Creasing in SUCh a steep, geometrical pro- Unearthly Glow surrounds him and P. S.-But, yes! (Enter the fac- mendation ·O:f the A. I. E. E;, we melts him. He falls to earth upside ulty, in plate armor) After them! hope that in lh€ future derogatory gression, the saturation point is quickly down in the form of a dictionary. (But 'f'he Three T's jump up, seize. remarks will not he made when .the reached. There isn't an mllhnited number of There is a long silence. Apparently Aimee by one arm and drag her facts are not !mown. the Unearthly Glow doesn't know down the steps of Bell. She car- Sin~erely yours, SUCkers in the WOrld WhO Call pay for stampS what to do. A voice is heard sing- ries the feebly resisting Dr. Ligon Kenneth N. Mathes, 01' who Cfull write letters. The few at the top ing, \Lock of ages, picked for me.\ under the other arm. Hell closes W. Erad'ley PlUinmer The Uneat•thly Glow sighs with r·e- with much creaking ·of hinges, of the pyramid may get something for theh• lief and goes. P. s. suddenly re- sending forth a dart of flame by • * * t:vouble, but the many at the base are throw stored to normal is left standing on which P. s. lights another cigarette. To the Editm·: - his head. Enter a long white robe. Thunder and lightning,) ing away their money. Chances are over- There is a terrific blast of music as P. S.-Multiple, multiple .travail The edito!,ial of May 7's issue of several Choirs Invisible start chant- and molestation, the Concordi€nsis may have prov whelmingly against your getting in the ing simultaneously \From Iceland's Holocaust rage and cauldron ed misleading to many readers. The scheme at the top of the h.eap. The letter Greasy Mountains,\ \Reside With effervesce. idea to be C<mveyed was that the Me,\ and \Holy Roly, Poly\. Aimee (He walks up and down, throwing ·members of the Union Branch of you got from the stranger in Princeton, or Semple MacPherson slides oilily chalk from one hand to the other) the A. I. E. E. are quite proud of l 'nto the long wh\t b h' h -F. H. the initiative shown by its mem C. C. N. Y., or Kansas Ciity shows that the 1 e ro e, w Ic closes itself with a zipper.) *Library field after lacl'Osse hers this year. A. great deal wa chain is already beginning- to peter out A. s. P.-Arise, Phil Smith. I have practice. accomplished by the students them come to reclaim you. selves, but we do not want anyone Stm·ting a new chain is even more worthless, P. S.-(Somersaulting to his feet) to think that they do not appre for the m2.-rket is glutted. From what, may I ask? ~ c~ate the assistance and support A. S. F.-Skip the Harvard ac- AROUND THE WORLD . given them by the memhers of ou1 Howevel·, the recent announcements in the cent. We know you're educated. faculty, newspapel'S that the chain Jetter scheme is P. S., we hear that you have long By RICHARD SNYDER · Without th~ir support recommen wandered in sin. J.!;;;;;;============;;;;;!l dations and assistance, the maj01 illegal should be taken with a large dose of P. S.-Ah, yes, Aimee, I have Th functions of the Branch could no d d b t I h · e failure of the Treasury to h b Salt. Ask in£! for a ''charJ'ty donation\ of ten wan ere , u ave not been lost. ave een executed nor ~ould the ~ A. S. F.-Shun futile wit. Come boost the domestic price of silver branch have .existed. t I b I d · th d b d for the fourth time is an indication cen s can scarce y e c asse as USlllQ.' · e an e save . I want every sinner Da.v 1 'd- E. \'at! 18 · , ~ f that at last the administration has ,. mal ' Is to defraud. And 1't wou·ld be fool1'sh of to orget his sin, to ascend the shin- Ed't • N o lng stairs to heaven <the sky opens awakened to the fact that its policy • 1 or s ~tr: • Ii:., A. I. I<~. E. the government to arrest and fine the thou- and a rope ladder is let down> to can have catastrophic effects on smite the harp and wear the golden other nations. The case of China, sands of hair-brained hop-efuls who are crown and gleaming robes-you'd which has been severely handicap- booming business in the postal department look so nice in a crown and gleam- ped by the United States action on ing robes-and , • , silver, provides a clear example of MENTAL HEALTH P. S.-<Resting one foot on the this. The death of Senator Cutting dome of the library) D>o you, my may have a profound influence on dear Aimee, believe that these the silver purchasing activity since visionary exhortations, these puerile he was the leader of the agitation l\lany colleges require that freshmen de- pleadings, I might say., these mor- for silver standard. cide, temporarily at least, what vo.cation they onic polemics produce any perturb- • * \ ation in my spirit? <Striding across Many have wondered why public wish to prepare for. While this may not the field and leaning his elbow works in this country have not work out too well, since it is simple to merely against the Waldron's house) Do been in the nature of national engi- you think that any vocabularistic neering projects such as an en- write \Pre-med or \Pre-law on an applica- prestidigitation, any verbal pyro- larged highway across the nation. t . 1-j 1 h 1 f technics, any semi-spiritual cater- The answer is undoubtedly bound up 1011 v an '• per aps per.sona con erences wauling . . . with politics; some states would not would bette.t· fulfill the purpose. At any rate, A. S. P. (Shrieking) Dr. Ligon, profit by such a construction as the th t d t h d d Dr. Ligon!! Help!! Help!! Help!! one mentioned, and thus there has e 111any s U en s W 0 wan er aroun , un- (Dr. Ligon comes in and sustains been staunch opposition to such a happy, dissatisfied, and generally mentally her with one hand. With the other program. However, one of the he is restraining an ignoble im- works being ser.iously considered sick, would find a lasting remedy for theh pulse.) under the new $4,000,000,000 fund is ills if they would set for themselves a defin- A. s. P.-P. s.-give ear to me!!! a canal across the state of Florida. I say unto you, verily you will go to This would relieve ships of the it.e life goal, taking into consideration their necessity of going around Key I , 't t' d j' · th t th West. Since this proposed plan is 1m1 a Ions, an rea 1z111g a ey maJ II II not discriminatory, there is no op- easily fall short of that goal, yet at the same PUNCTILIO position to it. time molcling their daily lives with that goal President z:m:ra* of Spain, de- in mind. J.!;;;;;;============;;;;!J spite hi;; protests, has been forced , A br·other columnist cavorting to permit Premier Lerroux to nom- As H. L. Hollingworth sug-gests m his about in a more or less Grecian and inate five members of the Catholic book, \Educated Psychology,\ every healthy not a little greasy costume near the Party for portfolios in the cabinet. library Tuesday evening was not a Thus Spain becomes, in a sense, a life is organized about a plan of action, a goal hallucination but rather a sign that \Vatican Republic\. Spain has fin- idea, whether it be an industrial or economic Twelfth Night had at last reached ally bowed to the church. dress rehearsal. * * * vocation, a philantht'opic calling·, Ol' an artis- The cast has been considerably tic proJ· ect. The main thing is that mental edified by some of the publicity in the city papers. The Union-Star health requires a thread of Ol'ganization, and really out-did itself. One a1ticle was headed \Mountebanks rehearse nothing serves quite so well as a lif.e plan. \Forfeit Night\ and in the body of ''The flightiness of self-o!'ganization in the same article occured this gem. \The cast is headed by the roles of childhood is due to the tmnsient and fleeting Sir Toby Belch and Sir Andrew character of the goals, and their fl'e{jUeni Aguecheek. played by---- and -- The rest of the cast is one failure to serve any genuine function in the of the best ever assembled for a sheltered life of children,\ writes Mr. Holl- Mountebanks show.\ • * * ingworth. \Development of an org·anized Columnar policies are a queer self occurs around the thread of the career outcropping of the writers' person- alities. The affectations which motive, the life plan.\ The absence of this clothe the writing with a style are career motive is responsible for the drifting: an integral part of the policy, Very ~ few of the stints· as 0. o. calls them of so many students. Those who have decided are ever very well thought out in h t t . th · h t f 11 • I advance and often it is only this w a voca lOll ey WlS o o ow are, m a - which prevents their being classi- most every instance, the ones who make a fied as premeditated crime. F. H. f II whose nameless child appears above success o co ege, who \de·velop organized writes with the avowed intention of selves.\ never being serious. That old plug- ger Es, Es, & Bee. covers the gossip \Mental health is essentially the mainten- angle and reaches, the most people ance of the integrity and unity of the self. possible for Unk Phil. Incidentally the office is areek with the smoke The self is that organization of interes.ts, im- of samples. Farrago conducts with pulses, memories, and valu.es that each mu.st a Rabelaisian or just smutty hand. This column usually just happens. achieve fm· himself. We are not born with * * \' selves, hut must laboriously c<Jnstruct them.ll Here are some tr.ivia: If you have seen any of those cartoons of prom- Certainly, a large number of stu.dents now inent local business men which run drifting aimlessly throu2'h four years of col- in the Union-Star you;ll appreciate ~ knowing that the prominent busi- lege might contribute greatly to that \self ne.ss men scribble the check for by taking Mr. Hollingworth's advice. forty dollars for one appearance. -J, B. D. The Supreme Court jolted the New Deal by setting aside the rail- road pension law as unconstitu- tional. Therefore the interstate commerce clause of the constitution has been labeled \no thoroughfare\ for types of social security. On the eve of further extension of the Roosevelt Social Security Plan, the administration are wondering if they will have to meet the opposi- tion of the Supreme Court, whose attitude is apparently from the above decision that industry should care for its own unfortunates. The vote was five to four, and marlred the shifting of one of the judges to a conservative stand in contrast to the radical position on the gold case. NOTES ON OUR CONTEMPORARIES Spinach The influence of Popeye, the comic strip character, is -being felt by the sch{)ol cafeteria .at North Carolina State College where spinach disappears more rapidly from the steam table than any other vegetaJble. PedicUlous Add reasons for discontinuing a class, only this was given ·by a pro- fessor at Loyola: \The class is lousy,\ he stated in announcing that he would no longer teach the course. Truth About S~nta. Paradise has a new location. Wil- liam Fairfield Warren, former • • * N(J Panacea To the Editor: Inaccurate reporting is, as you no doubt reali.ze, a breacll of a ~undamental principle of journal· tsm, but basing an editorial upon an erroneous: report is ·:arrying to extremes the tendency toward in accuracy which has characterized several recbnt i~sues of The Con cordiensis. I refer to your recent editorial entitled To tlw Fraternities, If, as you claim, the report of the com· mittee inves'tigating rush.ing rela tions at Union College is a flagrant example of buck passing, then in- deed your editorial is an equally flagrant example of misunderstand· ing. Practically the whole editorial is based upon the misconception that the committee was appointed \to investigate ·the possibility of making a11d enforcing rulo2~ to gov· ern fraternity rushing.\ Nothing- could be furfher fr·om chc truth. The busine~s of tile committee wu~ to draw up :a set of rules for ar- ranging dates f<>r freshmen not to revise the &·ushing syste~. En- forcing a set <Jf rules governing fre,;hrnen <.latc•s, the committee feels, would in valve an ill tricate system of rushing, and 1 hereforP a revi,;ion of th<= pre:;en t cut throat system. Sinc:e the attitude of th•! fraternities toward a rushing sys- tem is one uf a nt1.gonism, it woulJ be sheer foll:y to attempt to forcr' regulation w·hez·e the:e is no de· sire for it. Not only have you misunderstood the business Of the committee but you ha\\P nJ·;o mbinlP!prd'-'d (lw rep01·t. ThP npo.t WE~ not int.rnu· cd as a pawueafor all the ill,; uf fratertdty I'U«htng, nor wa' it t•x· pected to be the final word on the subject. Ratner, 'its intent was to inform the fraternities that the price of a system for arranging freshmen dates must be the aban- donment of the cut throat system. If the committee did not solve the rushing probiern, the reason is that it was not supposed to. The com- mittee was instructed to deal merely with one phase of -lhe whole problem, and It therefore ·did not consider alternatives to the pres- ent system. Yours truly, .Joseph A, Woolman. president of :Hat•vard, in a recent boo:k, selects the North Pole as the lQcation of the \World's first nudist colony. Snooty Exactly 281 w<>men have already applied for admission to Oberlin College f-or next year, and only 175 will be admitted. Bridge Taking theix ~ue from the recent Sims-Culberts<>n duel, four fratern- ity men at th.e University of South Carolina entered a '50 ru.h'ber ibridge match, -the wjnne!'S to get a steak dinner and a free movie. Euf E Fr1 toute Garn hold seasc they ton 12 o'< Th roun' of s' Thei1 we ell tions Ha caus. Bur·t In t leap( dlsta fit,st Jone be e: son He l feet reacl Slad< jaun time race the start for f Ja p]aCI over the Kna Unic oppu but. him Bt the· Latt ured IF C pete ly a Le01 hav1 sibil plac Tl are Clar and ra.ce don< has. wee! out B1 javE det€ Ha~ the feet and this or l put kee1 colt T limi this Mil! mal eve1 Lef• wit! two G mil< meE mill Mil M cc er rn rn bJ N c E 1( :M 2· L

eC' a- er- of ta- to lty of of of m- ro- re- jor a al- to in- as m- in- of ng- th. to llg !H• H.!· uf to ng nt in 75 THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 10, 1935 Th.xee Tr . ack. men. Tack· : le Hami •. l.t· . o. n·. Golfers Retaliate in Return Spiked Shoe to Sponsor Match Swamping Wildcats 6-0 All College Tracl\ Meet After Trimming Rochester ~--~--~----------------- Stevens Tech Ten Euff and Blue Have Two.Meet.'.s ·Garnet Here E:x:cellent Men in The - Sawdust Pits By MILTON D. BEDELL Fresh from their victory over the. touted Rochester track .team the Garnet track and field men will Engineers Decided Favotites With Powel'ful, Unde- feated Team hold their last home meet of the. The major difficulty ·for the season tomorrow afternoon when • val'Sity lacrosse team to obtain a they meet their traditional Hamil- victory tomorrow afternoon against ton rivals :On Alexartder Fiel'd, at a veteran Stevens Tech ten wHI be 12 o'clcok. its lack of experienced players. The Clintonians ·boast a well- With the handicap of inexperience rounded squad and have high hopes holding a heavy hand over the of setting the Union team back. Union team, the Hoboken men, win- Their decisive win over R. P. I. las•t ners in every contest they have weelt lends weig,ht to· theh' ambi- played this season, are decidedly tions. the favorites. Strong In Broad, High lt is the belief of Coach Harkness, that with the great improvement Hamilton has two men who will which his team showed .jn holding cause plenty of trouble fot• Em the Swarthmore Indians to 4 g·oals, Bu1·ton and Sherm Hirst tomorrow. a small number for a squad which In the R. P. I. meet, Swarthou1 had tallied 19 against C. C. N. Y., leaped across the sawdust pit a. the Dutchmen have more ·than a distance of 23 feet 23% inches for good chance of giving the seasoned fil•st place with his teammate, New Jersey team a stiff run for Jones, taking second. Burton will' their money. The golf team took full revenge' The last regular meeting of the for its .first loss of t·he season by Spiked Shoe Society was held soundly drubbing the Middlebury Wednesday night in the Trophy team, previous conquerors of the room of the. Gymnasium. The busi- Dutchmen, 6 to 0 on the Middlebury ness was devoted to completing course. plans for the All College Interclass The closest contest of the day was Track meet to be held next Satur- between Pickins ·Of Middlebury and· day afternoon May 18 at 2 o'clock Phi'! Little 0f the Garnet, the !attet· on Alexander Field. The meet is winning on the 19th hole after the· being sponsored •by Spiked Shoe match had gone evenly for .the first and faculty members wil act as of- 18 holes. · ficials. The summaries: An.y man attending college will Individual matches _ Tha·tcher, be eligible to compete, but may not enter more than three events. The Union, defeated Leete, 2 and, 1; Lit- progt·am for the meet will consist tie, Union defeated Pickins, one up;. of fourteen events and will be run Froelich, Union, defeated Lombardy, under the I c A A A A rules. Rib- one up; Langer, Union defeated bons will be awarded to the first Neilson, 2 up. Four •ball best ball two place winners except where the matches Thatcher and Little, winner is a member of Spiked Shoe Union, defeated Leete and Pickins, in which case the prize will go to one up; Froelich and Langer, Union,. the next mm-member. There will defeated Lombardy and Neilson 4 be no entry fee as originally an- and 3. nounced. The entry 'blank which Union wil probably lineup as in the last game, although there may be a substitution of Russ Knox at center instead of Elliott Fraser. Tompkins wil start at goal, Agius :point, Captain McNab coverpoint, Kennedy first defense, Lif.fiton sec- ond defense, Frazer or Knox center, Bergman second attack, Smith first attack, Vandecar outhorne, and MacMurray inhome. will be found on this page must be 'filled out and left at Coach Ketz's office in the Gym before 6 o'clock next Friday night. JEWELRY-WATCHES Schenectady VVatch Hospital EXPERT WATCH and JEWELRY REPAffiiNG be extended t>o his limit if Robin- During practice the Garnet team son continues at his pres.ent rate. has given evidence of its driving F H h b I . g the bar· at 5 CHAR•LES' ()ErmDe'Srly e as · een c earm · power. The defense, which was re- AH Work Done on Premises a.t· HECKMAN'S JEWELRY STORE 403 State St., Schenectady, N. Y. KETZ AND COMPANY Few, i.f any, have heard about It yet, but many are finding that Union boasts a I\eal faculty softball team. Yesterday, they romped to a 22-7 victory over Delta Upsilon fra:ternity behind some fine pitch- ing ·by none other than the present track coach, Bill Ketz. Many stu- dents would laugh at the idea of professors, dressed in old clothes, romping around a ball field like a bunch of kids, beating younger men at thei·r own game. The lineup of the faculty team included: Ketz, Hall, Lig-on, Cummins, Rienow, FO!X, Thatcher, Luhr, Wainget·, <Two home runs against the D. U's); and Bennett. Come out and watch a real :ball team go to worlt! We Have the Finest DE LUXE MOTOR COACHES Equipped with Radio To be had in the Capitol District BE CONVINCED-CALL G. A. WELCOME &SON Phone 4-8444 117-1 Union St. VISIT THE ENLARGED TAP ROOM GOLo·s SCHENECTADY'S fOPU·LAR RENDEZVOUS Cream Butter Eggs Cloverland Creamery Phone 2-4265 Ice Crea.m Cottage Cheese feet 9 inches comsistently and has markably bolstered up in the rain- The Official Union College Barber reached 5 feet 10 inches in practice. swept Swarthmore game, will re- for the past 24 years. Ask a.ny Slade gets around the long mile ceive some severe pounding tomor- upper classmen, they know. 11 jaunt in aJPproximately the same row when the ball-hawkers of operators. Schenectady\s greatest time as Bill Brockwehl and this Stevens begin to pop them from all barber. race should 'be a tight ·one down to Slii~de:s~·----=---~~~-------~b~C~O~R~.~S;T;A;T;;E=.A;N~D~D;R;O;A.;D;W~A;Y~~b=============~~~~~~~~~~~=~~~~========~==~==~ the last stretch. Goach Retz will :_ start Jerry Neumann m the mtle for first time this year. Jack Ross and Vi Fryer should place one, two in the 440-yard l'Un over Avery of Hamilton wh<> does the distance in rubout 53 seconds. Knauf will also run the quarter ·for Union. Slade will offer the most opposition for Neumann in the half but Jerry's strong finish should put him out in the lead at the tape. Burton In Vault Burton will have little trouble in the pole vault tomorrow. The :best Latham has done to date has meas- ured slightly more than eleven feet. If Captain Griffing is a:ble to com- pete in the vault Union is practical- ly assured of the ·first two places. Leon Naguszewski and Joe Milano have the edge on Nesbitt with pos- sibilities of a five ane one-point place in the discus throw. The low and high hurdle events arc in the competent hands of Clark Shields. Clark has done 16.6 and 26.5 respectively in these two races,.· while the .best Beakes has done to date is 17.6 and 27.4. Milano has. been improving dudng the past week and should nose out Swarth- out for a third place. Even in Javelin Both teams will line up their javelin throwers with the breaks determining 'the winner. Miller, Hamilton, is a hefty man, putting the slender shaft out beyond 160 feet without fail. Alex Brzostowski and Jack Bloof have both been over this distance, either duri:n,g practice or in active competition, and will put forward their best efforts to keep Miller out of the winninrg column. Thirty-eight feet has been the limit for Dazevedo in the shl>t put this season. Na.g, Chuck Rrull, and Milano have an excellent chance to make a clean sweep of this weight event. Hirst is eY.pected to lead Lefevre home in the 220-yard dash with Glen and Hirst placing one, two in <the century dash. Gildo Mirate will not rim the two- mile event as in the previous two meets, 'but, instead, will start in the mile run. Bob North will replace Mirate in the l•onger race. ENTRY BLANR All College Interclass Track Meet. Give name and class in college. 'Cheelt the events to be entered. No man may enter more than three events. Entries must he In Coach Ketz's office by 6 o'clock Friday night. Name ................. ········· Class ........... · · · · · · · ·· · · · · · · · High Hurdles ...........• · · · · · · 100-yard Dash ...... - ....• · · · · . · Mile Run .............. ········· 44Q .. yard Dash ............ · · · • · · 2-rnile Run ......... - .. ·. - · · · · · · Low Hurdles .......... · · · · · · · · • 220-yard Dash ........... · · • · · · • 88(}-yard Run ............. ·· .. · • Broadjump ...........•.. ··· ·· · · Pole Vault .. , .... · .. · · · · · · · · · · · High Jump .............. •······ Discus ......... · · · · ·· · ·· ·· · ·· ·' Shot Put .............. - ·· • · · · · · · · J·ave1in Throw •... • . · · - · · • · · · · · · © 193~. LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO, I J1n son1etirnes asked about cigarettes . , . and I believe they offer the 1nildest a11d purest form 111 which tobacco is used . .. . Mild Ripe Tobacco ..• Aged 2 years or more o • e -the farmer who grows the tobacco ... -the warehouseman who sells it at auction to the highest bidder ... -every man who knows about leaf tobacco- will tell you that it takes mild, ripe tobacco to make a good cigarette; and this • is the kind we buy for CHEST- ERFIELD Cigarettes. All of the tobacco used in CHESTERFIELD Cigarettes is aged for two years or more. LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO. .·:··· Chesterfield is the cigarette that's MILDER Chesterfield is the cigarette that TASTES BETTER . ·1 I \ I I i I' ! t I ·\ \' '.\'

Four '£HE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 10, 1935 Strong Amherst Graduate Council- Schenectadians- Mountebanks- Ball Tea,m Meets Garnet 1.'omorrow Lord Jeffs Have Gained Wins Over A1·my, Mass. State, And B{)wdoin Have SGphomore Star Epple, a Second Year Man, Has Been Outstanding On the Mound The varsity baseball team will meet one of the strongest opponents of the year tomorrow when it en- counters the toug-h Amherst College nine on Alexander Field at :.!:30 o'clock. The Dutchmen have had their last two games cancelled and it will be the first time in two weeks that they have l!ad major competition to work against. The Lord Jeffs have one of the stt\Ongest teams they have had in years, and it will take ne small amount of work to subdue them. They have a sophomore pitcher, Epple, who has done excellent worlt so far this year and seems headed for Amherst's Hal of Fame. He teams up with Joe Boyle, their star catcher, to make one of the best small college .batteries in the country. Have Impresshe Itt>cord The visitors' record so far this ;year has been excellent, showing a hard-ear-ned 8-7 victory over Army, in a game in which they came from behind a 7-0 lead to garner the win. The first game was a close loss to Clark 'by a 4-3 score, though Epple fanned 13 visitors. The victory over Army was the second encount- er of the season, folowed br a 4-3 win over Massachusetts State. Bowdoin also was subdued ·bY the tune of 8-4, by the Purple and White, who encounter Colgate to- day, before taking Union here to- morrow. Coach G. Elliott Hatfield will start the same combination that has been ready to star-t the last games. The stellar battery of Guy Griswold in the pitcher's ·box and AI Stevenson behind the plate are ·all warmed up and ready to go to work against the invaders. First base will be covered by George Clark, while Mike Fiore will cover the keystone sack. Bob Reed will play at short stop, with Dave Cad- walladet· at third. Captain Ralph Semerad will ag-nin lead his \Pam mates into :bat- tle from his center field :post, with Jrm Loomis again in left field and Ernie Bro,wn in the ri ~h t garden. CALE:'IiHAR Tonight ll 30 Mountebanks p<'rfnrm- ance, \TwPlft h Ntg-ht,\ Mountebanks Th~atE'r. Tontorrow Graduat<.> Council T~· .. nty-flftl. anniver::;at·y mectin¥; prugnm1: 10:2(}-· Spring meeting. room 106, Civil Engin<.>ering Building 12:30 Buffet Luncheon, Silli· man Hall. 12·00 -Track, L'nion \\\· Hami!· ton, AlPxander Fit:ld. 2.00 Base La II. l\nion v:o. Am· h<'r:'t, Al,•x.trlll<' 1 FiP It! ::! (JI) Flt>'hmatt L:,rlu~.,,., l'niuu vs. SylacU.·t' Ct•t:t ral H. S. 2.3() TL·nnb, L'uiun V;,. ~W<.ilth­ nloi t'. 4.00 Varsity Lartos·f'. l'nion v;-;. Stevt·n~ G 00 Twenty-fifth AnnlvPrsrrry Dinner, T1 ophy noom. Gymnac-ium. 5 ~n Glf'P Club BanCJUt>l and Annual Meeting. Y W. C. A. il 30 1\IoUlitl\bank I'Plfotm :met>, \Twt·lfth Night.\' Mounle bank:; Th··a!t-t. Sunday No ser-vicPs or organ recital. Monday 6:15- -Charter League dinner, Gymnasium, followed by a meeting in the Old Chapel. 8:30 - Mountebanlts Perform- ance, \Twelfth Night\ Mountebanks Theatre. Pill DELTS WIN TRACK MEET The Intramural Spring Tr-ack and Field Meet was won by the Phi Delta Theta fraternity with a total of 31 2-5 ,points. They beat out their nearest rivals, the Betas, by nearly ten points. Despite a slow track on Wenes- day, some very good times for the fraternity meet were made. Tom Nolan navigated the 440-yard run in 54-1, while Bill Endicott did the 220-yard daBh In 23.9. Bowie led the field home in the h.undred in 10.5 seconds. Warren Gammons ran one of the betit races of the aftern-oon in the half mile, He led the field around the oval in 2.105 finiRhing with a driving sprint. In the field event8 on Thursday, DIC'k Woodruff leapPrl ove1 ><<•ggy mothPr earth for a <li\tan<'P of 20 feet 1 inch in the broad jump. Grant Smith and vVln niP DRy car- ried off the honors in the hig·h jump by tieing with the bat· meaUR· ured at 5 feet 8 inches. Muir took first in the javelin with a heave of 124 feet 2 inches. (Continued from Page 1) !ties, class organization, and alumni associations, the work of the Coun- cil is evidenced by the exi:otence of 21 active associations, of which 10 are maintaining local scholarships for neighborhood boys attending Union. Both the Alumni Day fes- tivities at Graduation and the Col- lege Day program in the fall are planned and financed by this body. The Alumni Monthly publication, from which most of this informa- tion hn!'! h!>Pn takPn, i~ thp llfficinl journal edited and distl'ibuted by the Council. The Garden committee, and the Committee on Preparatory School and Undergr-aduate Affairs have both participated actively in their respective categories. An endowment campaign, pion- eered by Louis Gppenheim, '7 5, has netted $103,374.73, which has been u::;ed for :ouch thing:; a.:l gateways, office furnishings, garden improve- ments, literally hundreds of l>ooks for the library, equipment fo.r stu- dent activities, an athletic field, and considerable funds for needy boys who desired to come to Union. ---0·--- Changes Announced In Modern Lang·uage Division Several revisions in the state- ments of the recent Union College catalogue concerning modern lan- guage coursP:o were ann()unced Wednesday by Dr. Morton C. Stew- art in charge of the divi:oion of modern languages. The revisions have been made necessary, D1·. Stewart said, because of the changes in the staff of the modern language department for next year. The schedule hours and gene!:'al content of the courses, however, remain unchanged. The course in German 31 will be practically a new coul'se given by Dr. Danton and covering the liter- ature of the Clas:oic Period, chiefly the works of Goethe and Schiller. Certain of their plays will be read and di:;cussed in class a'l well as outside re8.ding of their other plays, poetry and prose writings. The prerequisite for the cour:oe will be German 21, however surh juniors from German 11 as may be l:'ecom- mended by the staff will also be qualified. · French 21 will be continued by Mr. Zabuesnic as it has been this year; namely, on French Romanti- (Continued from Page 1) 3 to 4 in the afternoon. Most of the counts were made on Mondays, which is by no means the busi·est day of the week, so that the follow- ing figures are comservative. Ilute ('Oillll• t!ons !'lu. tTay wulli.~t·s IO·l\Ilu. ~eriod Fd., .Apr. 1~--Before th·ive, rainy 154 206 Mon., AJtl\. 15-lst .tiny tlrive, ramy ............ 20<1 Mon., Apr. 22-2nt.l week drive, r,,il . . . . . . . . . . . . . llG 128 ~!oiL, Apr. ~9-·3rd weelc drive. fair, warm . . . . . . H7 162 Av,.•·age of all ronnt\ . . . . . . . . lGO During the cheek on Monday, April 15, the first day of the drive, a policeman was present, but made no move to interfere with the jay- walker::;. Seve I al control checl\ of sidewalk pedestrian traffic were made on the same days. These showed that the sidewalk flow was about constant, except on Monday, April 22, when it was about 8% be- low normal, with the jaywaJ.king also lessened by nearer 20%, pos- sibly because of the publicity about police measures, which never ma- terialized. Some idea of the amount of pave- ment-wandering indulged in by Schenectadians in the downtown district may be gained by multiply- ing the 10-minute average figure of 160 jaywalkers in the small strip mentioned, by the conservative fig- ut·e of 6 hours of a normal business day, which gives a total of 5,960 jaywalkers endangering their lives per diem, as well as holding up traffic and making Schenectady no- torious as the city wher-e, even though the citizens may not dance in the streets, they certainly walk in them! (Continued from Page 1) .Schenectady; Curio, Melvin Muroff, '38, Brooklyn; Fabian, William Mulvey, '38, Schenectady; First Offi· cer, Charles Little, '38, Minneapolis; Second Officer, J. Lawrence Hen- nessey, '38, Saratoga; Priest, Donald Hotaling, '38, Schenectady; Servant, Benjamin Cohen, '38, Schenectady. The production staff as an- nounced last night by Director Ed· ward L. Canoll i:; as follows: Stage Manager, Robert T. Sh1•eve, '36; Schenectady; Assistant stage man- ager, Benjamin J. Wilson, \36 Sche· nectady; Stage Carpenter, Arthur J. Firth, '36, Schenectady; Property manager, Carlton M. Garrison, '37, St. Paul; Scenic artist, August Swyka, '36, Schenectady; Prompter, Hugh H. Sharpe, '37, Valley Falls; Master electrician, Robert M. 'Brown, '36, Sa·ranac Lake; Assistant electrician, Benjamin F. Roberts, '37, Gulnac, Canal Zone; House manager, Joseph A. Woolman, '35, Troy; Assistant Managers, Francis E. Townley, '37, Scotia and James E. Kimball, '37, Springfield. This production will be repeated Saturday and Monday nig-hts in the Mountebanlcs -theatre in Hanna Hall. THE ACME BARBER SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS A PLEASURE 509 UNION ST. NEAREST THE CAMPUS The Gazette Press PRINTERS c ism. __ ------~!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::~• .. ·· :::: .. ·· .. ·::. ... ~ ... ' .......... ~. ·· •.. ·· .. ·· •.. ,Y•\••'•'• '•,;: ·=·::=: ... ·• :.:: .• .... - ... --= .. ·~·- ... ··-:- ........ •.·.·.··· --~- .... ·- .•. SeniEJr lJues Due- The numbers of the seniol' class are reminded that class dues for- t;he year 1935-193El, amountlt:t.g \to ~3, should be paid before grad.uation, Seniors •llv- ing in ·f1·aternity houses may eithel' ·gi-ve their dues to .tb.e heads of' llteir fraternities Ol' make son~e other arl'ang-ements in their ho1.1ses. Commuters can pay thel:t• dues either to 'Ted Whipple at the Chi Psi Lodg-e OI' to :Malcohn Rhoades at th.e Delta Upsilon House between the hours ·oE 12 and 1 or 6 and: 7. In th.e d'ormitm:ics, Leonard Eisenbud. a:nd Marien Bookout will called the dues. DALE TO -A.D--D_,.R.,..E,....,-'SS-C:-L-U-~- Dr, E. E. Ba:re. assistant professor •Of biology, will address the Bur- roughs Nat·t11·e Study Club of Job.ns- town, todb.::y at the home of Mrs. Laurence :stetson. FOOTBALL NOTICE A:ll football candidates for next .yeal' are requested to report at the .Qym to be measured for suits on Monday and Tuesday between 1:30 and 3:30 p.m. When you come 1 eG! SPECIAL 11 back next •• t,O'-\'. ~e FALL eet.~ (\,.,.~ ~~4~~ These special ,;chool and coliese rail ticke!s,VII!h!heir liberal extended re· tum lintili 1 cm> imrnenselypopulcriVilh and a ~re<~l saving to students•and teachers. When you're ready to co me back next Fall, buy one end save a third of tne regular two-way fcne. When Christmas Holidays come, you can use the return coupon to travel llome agoin. The ticket ,agent in your own town, or any railroad passenger repre· sentative can give you full details regarding return limits, stop·over privileges, prices, etc. ASSOCIAT·ED EASTERN RAILROADS Thu )'IJllrr.J! Wy recordB tl1e meaningleas syllables spoken b;y the man. ,\N\D ''H()w does kib like that?\ Such questions sound fi ~n.seless- yet tlt.ey- play an important part in making articulation tes.1s on new types of telephone ap:p!!.:l'a:tus at Bell Telephone Laboratories. b! naking these tests, 6336 :meaningless sy llahles are spdken - while observers record what they hear. Com.]luison of sounds actll.ally spoken with those heard., showsllow well the new· apparatus reproduces the many souads of which speech is ~,Jomposed. S:11cJt thoroughness is typicd of Bell System methods. Years of inventing, improving and testing have led to tlte ap(laratus which transmits your words so clearly. TfTlty not say \Hello\ to Mother and Datl tonight? Bargain rates on sta,. tion-to-station calls after 8:30 P. M. BE~L TtiLEPIIONE SYSTEM i; : • ' • t • • • • '--· = Vo = Th n :r nee bal Wel ma Col aw: ani UJX hel tad me Tid ren the the lor, the Tic Do to a 1: cal me thr GlE we 0. rna Ch E. an• Ri· Ha JaJ an• lar ye~ an• she fa< He of thi ho ne· Ch tot cii off cei as Tl: ah in1 op le~ so W< ki: to op of CI ta m: W< j 1 19 be to U] pE d! w e, ti tl si u: b• ec n cc S! te Vi f; ti p tl s t: '1 f f

the on 1:30 ta,. __._._,. .- ..... ., •••« i, Psychology Professor Completes Book On : • ' ' t • : Religion · ' . 1 l~~----------~ Vol. LVIII., No. 58 Glee Club :Selects Wells and Kimball Leader, Ma.nager a···- ........... .. • • tS I Wells Elected f Leader, Kimball l Manager At . £=!.~~~~~:~ .. UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, MAY 14, 1935 TUITION INSTALLMENT DlJE Council Announces Donations of $9,500 Eta Kappa Nu Hears National ~~~~:;Ligon Writes Of Christian PRICE FIVE CENTS 'Psychology Personality' Thirty Members Attend An· nual Banquet And Meeting At City Y. W. C. A. The final payment of tuition fo1· the second half year 1934- 193'5, is due and should ·b'e paid Wednesday, May 115, at the Comptroller's offi<!e. As this is the last payment on all ac- counts, it is urged that all th()se men having payments due make them promptly. All accou:nts should be closed ·before May 20. Alumni Report on Gift Can~ vass in Silver Anniversary Week~nd P1·ogmm Howard Earls '36, was elected president of Eta Kappa Nu for 1935-36 at a recent meeting of the local chapter of the national hon- · orary electrical engineering society. Assistant ProfesSOI' Completes Boolr DI\scussi\ng The other officers, all juniors, are \' as follows: Charles Krull, vice- Relation Between Christ's Teachings About 'I'he Comptroller's office will be open May 115 from 9:00 to 11;45 in the morning and from 1:00 to 4:45 in the afternoon. To Aid Exchange Student Vote $100 of Mattison Fund To Defray Expenses Of St. Andrews Student president; Edward Bastedo, treas- PersOilali'ty and Mode~·ll Belt'efs urer; Stewart Irvine, secretary; .. Hawkes Is Toastmaste1· Professor Taylor, Dr. Tid· marsh, .and Retiring Sen· iors Address Club Robert Eddy Wells '36 of ·sche- nectady and James Edward Kim- ball, Jr. '36 of Springfield, Mass., were elected student leader and manager, respectively, of the Union College Glee Club, and 10 men were awarded keys at the banquet and annual business meeting of the Union College Glee Clul> which was 'I'he usual fine of $2.0{) will >be required on all payments made after May 115. Union Outing Club Leads Association Smith, Middlebury, an·d Union Elected to Executive Council of Group held Saturday night at the Schenec- .At the .fourth annual conference tady Y. W. C. A. Among the 30 of the Intercolleg·iate Outing Club members pr~sent were Dr. Elmer A. Association held last week at Bread Tldmarsh, duector, and ~rof. War- Loaf, Vermont, the Union College ren C .. Taylor, fll:culty advisor. After Outing Club was elected a member the dmner whtch began at 6:3{) of the associati()n's executive conn- there were speeches by Prof. Tay- cil, together with Smith and Middle- lor, Tll;o~nton W. Whipple, Jr. '35, bury Colleges, and at the same time the retlrmg student .h~ader, and Dr. chosen as host for the 1935 College T1dmarsh. The ret!nng manager, Week to be held at Lake Colden in Donald C. Hawkes, Jr. '36 acted as Adironda:cks in .September toastmaster for the evening. 'fhe Intercol1egiate Outing Club Keys of the Union College Musi- Association which was started in cal Association were awarded to 10 1932 by representatives fr-om Dart- rnember.s in recognition of their ~outh College has since grown to three years participation in the mclude twenty-three eastern col- Glee Club. Those to receive keys lel?es and is today expanding into were: Ernest N. Brown '35, Norman m1ddlewestern institutions. The 0. Chadbourne '35, Rankine C. Hin- association now takes an active man '35, Byrne W. Mayer '36, IJ8;I\t on m?.st campuses ·both to Charles L. Reid, Jr. '36, and Robert stimulate mterest in mountain E. Wells '36, all of Schenectady, clim:bing and canoeing, and to and Clemens F. Hathaway '35 of sponsor extensive wintel'sports River Edge, N. J., Donald C. programs throughout New Yorlt Hawkes, Jr. '36 of Elmira, N. Y., and New England. James Kimball, the new manager, When in the autumn of 1932 the and Myron James Walter of Cort- first college week was held on land, N. Y. 1\lloolilauke under the auspices of Tidmarsh Speaks the Dartmouth Outing Club, only a Dr. Tidmarsll, in reviewing the handful of col~eges were repre~ent­ year's work stressed the fine spirit .ed and dlscusswns centered entirely and cooperS:tion every member had around vague hope;s of future sh()Wn all through the year in the growth. ~~h folloWing year more face of both difficulty and criticism. clu~s joined m thes.e College Weeks · until Last year nme{een colleges He commented on the large number sent delegates to the gathering in of. boys who c:ame out for the club the White Mount ·n this year, 85 m all. Next year he . . a! s. . hopes that each member will urge The ~~10n College Outmg Club, new boys to come into the Glee Which JOmed the I. ~· C: A: a year Club, so that the membership wiil ag~, became ~o active m mtercol- total over one hundred. \The prin- !eg1a~e gathermgs that they were cipal objective of a Glee Club is to UD;ammo1;1s1y elected as hosts. for offer a program that is well re- th1s years College Week. O~f1cers ceived by the musical critics as well of t~e Club have .alre9;dy- lmd ex- as pleasing to the average listener. tens1ve plans whlCh mclude the The Glee Club must keep the fo_rmation of an advance pa1·ty- who alumni in mind and appeal to their Will spen? the latter part of the interest, so as to continue their co- summer m. the Lake. Colden and operation in the club and the col- Marcy regwns, making arrange- lege.\ m~n ts for the tran.spor~tion of sup- Special recognition was given to plies over mountam tra1ls. Celebrating its 25th anniversary Saturday, Union's Graduate Council not only attended the athletic con- tests, a luncheon at the Presidenes home, and an anniversary dinner in the gym as guests of the president and trustees of the college, but also elected memlbe.rs-at-large and handl- ed numerous financial matters 1vhich included a report that 550 people have donated $9 500 to the college in the past year. ' In addition to the announcement received from the Alumni Gift canvass, a report was also made by Louis Oppenheim '75, that 2150 ad- di tiona! gifts of varying amount had been received. Acting upon the recommendation of the executive committee the council voted: unanimously to' all<J- cate $100 of the Mattison fund to help defray the expenses of the ex- chan.ge student from St. Andrews U:niversity, Glasgow, Scotland who will arrive this fall. It wa~ also deci·ded to set aside money for the next two or three years for the support of other students from that school. Reinstated Members The council reinstated as mem- bers-at-large E. Z. Hawkes '87 Spencer Eddy '18, and George c: Foot '99. Dr. G. Marcellus Glowa '11, college physician, E. C. Vr()o- rnan '17, and Daniel Flinn III '34 \vere reinstated as their class repr~ sentatives, as were also G. Z. Knight '25, and John L. Fink '26. , Reuban D. Fink '87, was elected member-at-large to complete the unexpiered term of the late John C. Van Voast. William B. Yates '98, V'<as re-elected to serve on the ath- .Jetic board as a representative of the alumni. The present ofucers of the Coun- cil are E. M. Cameron '87, president; .James E. Finegan '02, vice-presi- dent; Charles N. Waldron '06, sec- retary; F. B. Richards '88, treas- urer; and Daniel R. Weeks '28, as- sistant secretary. ---(}--- 'Photography Can Be Art,' Says Fox Photographet· Can Raise The Artistic Taste of A Community some of the members for their Union will add a new touch to the work during the past year. Ran- next College Week, thanlls to the kine Hinman, who attended but had activities of Alton West '35, senior to leave early, did not have an member of the executive col!ncil. opportunity to speak. He has been West, who is the son of a.n Ad.ir~:m­ of invaluable aid to the Musical dack ranger, and who has hun- Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox pointed out Clubs and the Choir doing impor- self been in charge oQ.f certain the artistic value possible in pho- tant details and helping Dr. Tid- Marcy trails during past summers, tography in an address before the marsh. Among others mentioned ;vm an:ange a se:ies of sid·e trips annual convention of the Profes- were Charles Reid, accompanist; mto umque an?- lrttle known parts sional Photographers Society of (Continued on Page 4) of the mountams. New York made last week at the __ ___::...:..::.:::_:.:.=.:__.:__.:__ _ _:.:__ __ ~~~~--------------Van Curler Hotel and ·broadcast 714: k. 0 d. . a Trz\ over station WGY. Plan to Jr..l.a e onco~ zenszs - \The photographer today has a d L 191 '{ choice before him,\ stated Dr. Fox. Philip Hutt, corresponding secret- ary; and Ambrose Bullard, bridge correspondent. . Clifford A. Faust, national vice- president, visited the campus as a guest of the Union chapter, Satur- · day, May 11. He met with the electrical engineering faculty in the morning and with the undergradu- ate members during the afternoon. Plans for next year were discuss- ed at the meeting and many of Mr. Faust's suggestions were incorpor- ated in the program, which the so-· ciety hopes will tend to familarize the college with the alms and work of Eta Kappa Nu. 'Twelfth Night' Pleases Audience ·Appreciative Gatherings Are Highly Amused at Well . Performed Comedy By FRAN TOWNLEY Shakespeare was rar from being ·the popular con-ception of \dull\ when the Mountebanks produced the \Twelfth Night\ of that im- mortal autor last weekend. Th.rough neai\ly every one of the eigtheen scenes the audience was in laughter, .the result of the fine comedy work done by the student actors. This production, the last ()f the college year, was taken to Albany this morning and there performed at a matinee before the Boys' Academy this afternoon. The play will be a feature of the Commencement ex- ercises on Friday, June 7, when it will ·be performed for the returning .alumni andJ their friends. The general aspect of the entire play was entirely pleasing. The expressionistic sets, designed by August Swyka '36, added much to the effect of the play. The cos- ·tumes, no doubt a source of dis- comfort to the actors, did their part 'to \make\ the play, and the ·final result was worth any discomfort they may have been. Helm Stars New Author DR. ERNEST MAYFIELD LIGON Thomas to Finish Civic Concert Series Bal'itone to Present German Lieder Numbers by Brahms And Franz Thu1·sday John Charles Thomas, popular American baritone, will sing before the Civic Music Association Thurs- day evening. The concert, which will be given at 8:30 o'clock at the Mont Pleasant High School, will complete the association's ctu·rent series. The program for ·the event in- cludes several \lieder\ numbers prominent among which ar~ Brahm's \Der Tod, das ist die Kuhle Nacht,\ and \Widmung\ by A star of the show, playing in a Franz. In the Brahms number the somewhat minor part but in one cool restfulness of eternal sleep is which unexpectedly turned out to contrasted with the trouble and be one of the best in the play, was turmoil of life's day. The composer Ferdinand Helm jr, who many has seized in a masterly fashion the thought stole the show. The audi- distinctive coloring and character ence at each night's performance of his subject, fixing them with a gave him a generous hand as he clear motive and decisive rhythm. left the stage after his most im- The melody, as in all of Brahm's portant scene. True to Lhe advance w:orks, is unusually effective, for stories concerning them, George W. h1s greatness as a song writer de- 'Stroebel and John B. Dowling were pends first of all upou his .power of instant hits in their comedy roles conceiving simple, inevitable, sym- of Sir Andrew Aguecheelt and Sir metrical meliodies. Toby Belch, respectively. George German \lieder and especially P. Haskell, also hailed as a fine that of Brahms, is admirably suited comedy p!aye1-. turned in a stel!!;!.r for Mr. Thomas' rich baritone. The performance as Feste, the clown. diatonic progressions can be taken A notable feature of Haskell's work with ease and certainty. The tones, was the fine interpretation which long held while the development ac- he gave of the stylized acticn Di- cu;s in the accompaniment below, rector Edward L. Carroll had tried br~ng out the full sonority of his to secure. He ~ <1- good comedy VOice and give that sustained effect lead, with a pleasing baritone voice. so essential to the dignity of vocal The roles of Orsino, played iby slyle. Above all, the wide-spanned Wallace T. Foote, Olivia played iby phrases, which tax the breathing Miss Viola. Van Laak, Viola given power to the utmost, produce ef- (Continued on Page 4) (Continued on Page 4) Weekly Publication Faile n .. :~~s:a~a~l~a; i~o~t;:t a~d ath~~v~~ make a record, or he may become Schenectadians On Safety Islands Act Like Eliza-on-the-lce-Cakes GIVES PURPOSE To Apply Principles of Mod- em Psychology to Teach· ing of Religion The publishing of a book by Dr. Ernest M. Ligon, assistant profes- sor of psychology, in which he dis- cusses the relationship between the teachings of Jesus about human personality, and the principles of modern psychology and mental hygiene, was announced yesterday It is entitled \Psychology of ChriS: tian Pe.rsonality\. Having employed approximately 14 years in prepar- ation, Dr. Ligon interprets the Ser- mon on the Mount used as the ma- terial of .Tesus' teachings in terlllil of mental health and wholesome personality, Ethical and theological questions are not considered only those relating to strong perso~ality-, The author has given as his pur- pose \To bring into religion and especially · religious education the best .Principles of modern psychol- ogy m a wholesome and positive way.\ As a subtitle Dr. Ligon has selected \A Psychologist Interprets the Sermon on The Mount\. The topics discussed include: a description. of the traits which con- stitute Christian personality and how they Dlay be developed in chil- dren in the terms of the actual .na- t~re of the growing child; a discus- Sion of the nature and development of strong character; the value of p:ayer in the strong personality, discussed from a psychological point of view; the psychology of fear and anger; and the causes and cure of the inferiority complex. States Purpose \Religion has often contained many unhealthy elements,\ de- clares the a tithor, in stating the purpose of his book. \It is hoped that some of these will be pointed out and corrected. On the other ~nd, religion has long been recog• ruzed as a. powerful influence in the development of character. It should be of use to ministers who are an.'!:ious to- correlate their preaching with their pastoral problems; to parents who are anxiou.s to give their children the best elements of religion while at the same time avoiding the unhealthy attitudes often laught in the name of reli- gion; and finally to young people who are anx.lous to find a rational di~cussion of religious teachings in terms of the real problems ()f every- day life. It i::; hoped, moreover, that the book wlll constitute a contribu- tion to the psychology of religion, although it is written non-tech- nically a.nd. not M a scientific monograph.\ Consisting of approximately 400 pages, the book will be published by the Macmillan Company prob- ably in September. ' Dr. Ligon graduated from the Texas Ch.xistian University in 1920 received his 1L A. from that univer~ sity in 1921, and B. D. and Ph. D. from Yale in. 1924 and 1927. City Government Tall~s Heard at Charter League Nearly 20 years ago, in the Fall of while still appearing thrice weekly, a prophet and expositor of art. 1916, the editorial and business seemed to be rather labored, as Why should he not become a prin- boards of theConcordiensis, anxious though material enough to fill them cipal influence in his community to to improve the publica.tion, decided was becoming difficult to- find. Fin,- raise its taste and its understand- upon. a plan whereby it would ap- ally, in April, 1917, it was publicly ing? If he is to reach this level he pear three times a week, on Mon- announced on the front page of the must become articulate in words as day, Thursday, and Saturday; and Concordiensis that because of this well as pictures. He must work would contain a literary supplement plan of publishing three issues and serve on a basis of full educa- Editor's Note: This is the every fortnight. This change was weekly, the paper was running into tion, not in narrow technique but second of a sel'ies of three art- the first revolutionary one made in. a deficit and would have to be dis- with a broad \foundation of soeial icles setting forth some of the the publication of the Concordiensls continued unless supported by the history and philosophy.\ findings of the loe$ traffic since its founding in 1876, and the student body. A special meeting of Dr. Fox called attention to the group of the Automobile Safety undertaking was· a great one. The the students was held, and by a changing attitude of men toward project conducted this spring board t·ealized the danger connect- unanimous vote a tax of 25 cents the arts as reflected in men's col- by the members of Social Stu- ed with such a sudden step, but per capita was levied 011 the stu- leges today as contrasted with tho dies 10, Methods and Problems. nevertheless felt that it had to dent body, for the purpose of con- former feminization of art in by- The group consisted of A:rling- come. In their first editorial they tinuing the Concordiensis for two gone decades. \Young men have ton E. Baxter '37, John R. Mills strips of State street pavement at an average rate of nearly a thou- sand an hour. This article will try to show the part played by the safety islands in this general traf- fic confusion, and especially its con- nection with the gentle and much- practiced art of jaywalking. Murray Seasongood, Cincinnati city manager and former mayor, was guest speaker at a dinner and meeting ()f the Schenectady Char- t~r League here last night. The d1~er, at which Dr. Earl E. Cum- roms, chairman of the division of social studies also spolte was held at 6:15 in the gymnasiu~ and was ~ollowed by the meeting in Memor- lal Chapel where Mr. Seasongood address.ed an enthusiastic audience on varu>us phases of city govern- ment. edl 'tions a week for the rerr :J.Inder come to see that the fine arts are '37, and Raymond J. Zler&k '87. say of the previouslY existing sys.- · t b Wh f t · tem: \The old style of publication of the college year. no a \sissy subject'; they can e Y are sa e y Islands? Fre- d l d The following September it was as masculine as Michael Angelo, or sumrubly to enable people to enter was clumsy, inefficient, an o - 1 bli h' t th t 11 f ininine and leave the trolleys and busses fashioned. It was not representa- fses;!~;d at~~~~: n.Xf fi~e s~r:g ti:;:~ ~~ly e~u 11 ~an~as~otr:g 0 [he e declln~ when there is a considerable dist- tive of the college.\ f t' ·t · d b t' d l't · b t th h' 1 t subscriptions to the paper became, o ac !VI Y m e a mg an 1 erary ance e ween ose ve 1c es and he The new plan :seemed to function compulsory, each student paying societies due to enrichment of the sidewalks. What do Schenecta- perfectly at the beginning, and for for it when he registered. Previous courses in English and social stud- dians use them for? That is an- the first month no issue was to this decision, subscription -was ies, he further stated, \Anyone who other story! In the first article of smaller than six pages, most of arbitrary, and only 52 per cent of' thinks he detects a falling intel· this series it was pointed out that them running to ight or 10 pages. the students subscribed. Compul- lectual temperature in colleges the citizens of Schenectady are con; The middle cf the second month sory subscription was felt to be the should consider the new apprecia- firmed and unrestrained jaywalk- found nearly every isst,te down to only waY of Insuring the paper Hon of pictorial art and music and ei'S in the downtown business dis- four pages, and su,cceeding issues, ·against financial risks. a1·ama.\ trict, crossing some of the busiest There has 'been much controversy over the questions whether safety islands should be built-up above the street grade, and whether they should ·be passed on both sides or on the right only. But this survey deals with another issue, namely the comparative degree of use of the safety Islands for entering and leaving vehicles, and for crossing at State and Jay streets and State and Broadway for 30-minute periods on four different days :be- tween 3 and 5 p. m. with the follow- ( Continued on Page 4) The five minute speakers at the banquet included Walter J. Millard, field manager of the Nati()nal Mu~icipal League; Philip L. Alger, chaJrman of the Charter Lea.gue E~ecutive committee; Alexander Diamond of the Junior Chamber of Commerce, Mrs. Patrick J. Gary of Mount Pleasant High School, and Dr. Cur:mnins of the faculty here who spoke on \Changing the Ma- chinery of Government\. i I ' '. i i ' ,, I 'I I ! ·' ., I

'l'w() <lJJlUOl ~irnsis \A Cattsa Persa Parole Assai\ FouNDED 1877 MEMBER ~sll)dattd ~Q\ltgiate ~rt.!liS .... lll34 Cffillt;i~;-Jliiol'tlt 1!>35 ... MADISON WISCOHSIH Sole and I·~xelusive National Atlvertising Repre- sentative, National Advertbing Service, Inc., 11 \Vest 42nd St., N. Y. C., 400 No. Michigan Ave .. Ch ica.go, Illinois, Chicago- Wrigley Bldg., Boston, Mass. Tb.e official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fridays throughout the college year, except during Cluistmas and spring recesses, Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cen.ts a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered any-where in the United States. Editol'ial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Senior Board Va.n Vechten Trumbull. ........ Edi.tor-in-Ohief Delta Ph! House-4-0645 William H. Fitzgerald ....... Business Manager Delta Upsilon Hou~e-:-7922 John. D. Anderson ............ M-anaging Editor P~i Upsilon House-1-8710 Albert H. Stevenson .............. Sports Editor Psi Upsilon Hou~e-4-8710 Robert C. North .................. News Editor Delta UtJsilun IIouse-1-7922 Wallace T. Foote ...... , ........ Feature Editor Alpha Delta Ph! House-4-672~ Junior Board ASSOCIATE EDITORS Milton Bedell Richard Passenger Ralph Cohen Richard Snyder Fenton Gage Norman Stewart J. Bundgus R. Dolg W. Dean Carlton Garrison Sophomore Board Assistant Editors H. Enzer H. Hartmann R. Ferguson M. Muroff C. Honi kel C. Trahman Issue Editor .......•... Richard Passenger Assistant Issue Edito1· Fenton A. Gage Tuesday, May 14, 1935 BEHIND CLASS DUES Behind the seniOl' class dues, which the representative of the class of 1935 on the G1·aduate Council is trying valiantly to col- lect, is a whole philos.ophy of the relation of a man to his colleg-e -which represents much mor.e than just another effort to get money. The g-raduate who pays his class dues regularly, who receives and reads the Alumni l\:1onthly is showing an interest in his college which is much mm·e valuable to both himself and his alma mater than if he were to give large sums of money, carelessly. The purpose of clu.ss dues is to foster a two-way relationship between the alumnus and the college, a relationship which is best symbolized by the spirit of g-iving. The col- leg-e has given much, and has much yet to give, to the alumnus: education, friendships, memol'ies. The alumnus in turn can give or withold those things \vhich make Union a college instead of just a school: active inter- est in her affairs and welfm·e, frank criticism and honest support, participation in the spirit and traditions of the college, as well as such material gifts which he is able and willing to give. Union appreciates the material gifts of her alumni because they are a convincing em- bodiment of a belief in the value of the col- lege, a demonstration of genuine interest in her traditions. Such gifts are far more satis- fying- than impersonal donations from philan- thropic institutions, welcome as these wind- falls are. Class dues, ho\vever, are not gifts to the college. They are minimum fees necessary to carTy on the work of the gmduate council in keeping alumni in touch with Union. Half of the amount goes for a subscription to the Alumni Monthly. The rest barely covers the mechanical work of the graduatf' council, alumni records, office expenses, and mailing. Payment of class dms is the smallest, least expensive means. fo1· the alumnus to show his interest in the college in a concrete, material way. ·. THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MAY 14, 1935 MUSIC A'l'TENTION SCHENECTADY! · ~ Interesting to the citizens of Schenectady ·.· .· Farra g 0 I' as well as to the students of Union College By TONY SHARFE are the fi11dings of the three sophomores ~======================-.!. !.:::============!.~ Stephen Leacock, who bubbles up in the social studies division who have con- with some educational whimsy From the Vassar Miscellany News We tlJ.ank the ~hursday Club £or every year or so for the good 11 a- this tidbit: their letter-we ho·pe that our or- centrated on a study of the local traffic ·p·· rob- tured chaffing of that American • chids may never wither-Keep up Privileged Communique th d k · 1 • lelll l ·.n the 11 · • Automobl'l.e Safety Pl'OJ'ects. religion, now ma:intains that he·· e goo wor , g1r s. . took to teaching because it was Ezra Pound We note that John Charles S h \the only trade that neither re- Can be Found · Thomas is doing a program that is C enectady shoppers probably do not. quired experience or intellect\. AIF Sniffing an Italian rose. · definitely \up.\ We hope you like realize their own abilities as jaywalkers this may be true, Stephen old sock,· ·it, Schenectady! but we !mow some seniors· who, The stin they say Dr. Tidmarsh is contin-uing his They wander across the streets with the ab- doubt your word. Seriously, though, Every day recitals into June which pleases us sent audacity of a flock of chickens.. Accord- the part al>out the intellect may go, Shines on his entire nose. no end, The Bach he .played Sun- . but experience seems to be some- ·day was magnificent, as was ing to the stude11t inv-estigator's count, as what in demand around here. When he's blue \Rhapsody ·by Coleg. The Jongen t h d d 1 And we like his comment uttered; He looks thrli • \Chant de Mal\ and Boccherini m.any as WO Un re peop e may SWarm after receiving his Ph. D. \The All the home dispatches. ·\Minuet\ were no slouches, either. across a sma~ll section of State Street in 10 meaning of this degree is that the We thought Charley Reid did a:a · A d th b f . recipient of instruction is examined· In a rage exceptionally fine job on his end of • mmutes. n e average num er 0 Jay- for the last time in his life and is' Types a page \our duo\-we modestly refrain walkers in the seven 10-minute periods which pronounced completely full. After Of virulent snatches. · from commenting on our ewn ;per- this no new ideas can be imparted formance. . were tabulated was 160. Certainly this is to him.\ Probably Our respect for the string quartet h · k h 1 a1 · · • * * We would be increases at every hearing. They son1et mg- to rna e t · e OC · Citizenry sit up - Mo~e co~pietely scold'ed. nort only interpret thei·r numbers It has been several months· now '' ~· and take notice. If Schenectady already has that a select class, under the direc- with much feeling but also possess If a whim a considerable amount of technical a fairly low record of auto accidents in spite tion of a faculty member, has been skill. In spite of ·the fact that they pursuing the study of automobile Induced him of the city's jaywalking habits, how much accidents and their wherewithall. Not to type blindfolded. had two different violists and two b Much has been said about signifi-: -Flush. more •seco·nd violins, they did a etter could the record be if the local pedes- cance of this bit of research and we . --~o~-- swell jo-b in adding to the atmo- trians were educated to respect their own are tempted to agree that there is sphere of the \Twelfth Night\ per- skins. something there of permanent Middlesex: Notes formance. value. It was jolly to see, however, A rather surprised audience en- The series of articles now running- in The a faculty member comprising this tered the Mountebanks theatre Fri- ---0--- group go down Lenox Road at. d · ht t b 8 • 1 k BI' I·N' THE MAIL Concordiensis setting- forth some of the re- about 30 miles an hour, pass the ay mg a a out oc oc · Iss- fully walking the path from the sults of this traffic study, are also being Nott Street stop sign unblushingly, Old Chapel to Hanna Hall, they To the Editor: and swing into a sharp left turn were surprised to have the peace Most of us, on reflection, are sur- published in the local newspapet·s. Perhaps without signalling. of the evening disturbed by a bunch prised at what we have done, or they will have some effect upon the people • * .. of grotesquely attired hyenas ca- failed to do through .thoug-htless- Deductions of psychology profes- vorting about on the olawn. They ness. Every member of Union Col- of Schenectady and upon the genial, blue- sors this year: entered the building rather hastily, lege is proud of our campus and coated whistle-blowers who enforce the traf- The standard of the passing mark but breathed a sigh of relief at ··ealizes in some degree what its is a fiction.-But grades are a. about 8:-32 when they found that handsome ap.pearance means to our fie regulations. We particularly hope that necessary evil.-The objective test all they had seen was the cast of prestige as well a.s to our personal the latter will notice the next article in th.e is surging to the fore.-Judgrnents \Twelfth Night\ amusing itself be- delight. It is an example of pure made rapidly on true-false ques- for the play. thoughtlessness, therefore, that series, which will consider the question, thions ahre generally more accurate It war.o rath\'er*un.fo~tunate that durintg thfe pthast fMew days announce- wh II h · ff d t an t ose pondered over, with - ' men s o · - e ountebanks' play \ at rea Y appens Ill a tra ic · rive?\ many erasures.-Crarnming is effec- many of the scenes ended before were tacked on the doors of college The students who made the study would tive for passing a test, but not for you got on to the fact that they buildings. The reductio ad ab- the retention of knowledge. had begun, but toward the end of SUI\dwn came when a commercial be the fil~st to disclaim their findings as an Speaking of psychology, we re- the play, that wore off. The unfor- advertisement of a student agency t d I t I . f th I l f cently met a lad about 20 years old tunate thing was that too many in was nailed upon the Chapel door. exac an comp e e ana YSlS 0 e · oca tra - and still in a private school. He is the audience seemed to be too Comparatively few use their own fie situation. But at least these findings are .not very intelligent, and is not sure :thrilled by Shakespeare to enjoy his front doors at home for such pur- he will be able to get through this :Play. To laugh seemed sacrilege, poses, and yet were that custom definite, concrete, and impartial. Facts are year. If he does, he intends to go to . and even such lines as \Go shake general the Chapel door might still rarely at the disposal of the authorities on' a well known college, and if he is your ears\ were g-reeted with the seem appropriately exempt. able to pass his four year course silence befitting the work of genius. Our lawns and gardens wiH such a. question as traffic regulation, because there, of which hope he is doubtful, • \' * match with any in this country and th t f h' · . h Columbia University's radicals look best when not strewn with the issue is so beclouded with personal feel- e res 0 Is career 1 s a cmc · seem tG have gotten the instit.ut 1 'on He will go to graduate school to papers. The citizen who carries his ing and selfish considerations. The three study psychology for three years, into hot water with the alumni. own litter, either in his hand or in t h . d t , Many of them, prominent in the hi k t t'I h r· d Studellts al 'e to be COn!!'I·atulated for an 1 ·n ge 1s oc or s degree, and teach. L . h L b s poe e , un l e m s a proper ~ - We only wish we could be that egwn, or t e i erty- League, and place for it is the kind of citizen terestl .no- and perhaps frut'tful re 0 t A d hopeful one who was naively described as a who will probably represent us best \\ . p r . n . * '* * \millionaire broker\ protest heart- in future years. we do not mean to slight the other students This little remark about Far- ily against the actions of campus Cordially yours, who worked on Automobile Safety projects, rago's conducting with a Rabelais- pinkos, and declare that their wills DIXON RYAN FOX. f I ian or J'ust smutty hand touched us will be changed and that sons will many o w lOSe reports were ju:st as good if to the quick, to the heart, and to go to other colleges if it doesn't o---- stop. It seems unfortunate that W k B not as newsworthy. · other delicate parts of our anatomy. many hold the attitude that the col- ee s est Editorial We decry Punctilio to be incorrect. lege is for the alumni and not the BENEVOLENT INDIFFERENCE (Subtle way of saying you're a students. REVISED SCORE BOARD liar.) * * * Collegiate Opinion . The newsreels ;tre all carrying College students who have taken Secret Service Bureau p10tures of the Jubilee of King to the expression of ideas which George v and Queen Mary. As differ from the fundamental prin- soon as the \God Save the King\ ciples of our present world with is played and the pictures of Their . which, until they enter college, they Majesties is thrown upon the have been thoroughly inundated, An alumnus has suggested that the colleg-e screen, American audiences clap are likely to encounter from their 'd t 1 b · th The Charter L~ague den1'ed the and cheer. It 1's a great tr 1 'bute to elders an attitude of benevolent in- p rOVl e separa e pane s earmg· e names ~ • · use of the public schools by the English institutions, and it might difference. The expression of this of Union's opponents to replace the all-inclu- Fagel machine, took refuge in the teach us a lesson. We personally- attitude, if, indeed, the bother is · , v· · , h\ h h cloistered walls of our own Mem- have a desire to see King Franklin taken to express it, runs something SlVe ' ISitors W lC now as a permanent orial Chapel last night. Comment: I on the throne, with Premier Nor- like this: \All college students have position on the score board on Alumni Field P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. I. P. P. man Thomas guiding the American such silly ideas; they will outgrow (Political Power Pushes Popular Parliament through tlle mazes of them in time.\ This procedure would include the names of Protest Past Public Property Into the depression. Perhaps then we Of course, the first assumption is approx:imately nine colleges for baseball and Private Pu1pitl could see Huey Long and Cough- obviously a misstatement; the great * • * !ins put in their proper place as mass of American college students four or five for football. Not only would this Judging from the ·ball game the disturbers of the general peace, are sadly apathetic about modern be a ~rraceful g-estm 1 e towards our guests ·but Amherst Eppl~ w*as*e. little sour. and add some dignity to an Amer- problems. But the grave danger in ~ ~ 1can government that is sadly Jack- such an attitude is that it is condu- uninformed spectators would also realize who The Baseball Team In Song... ing in it. cive to a state of smugness which Catcher: Steal Away. * ,. * precludes the possibility of youth's the guests were. (Yes, there probably are Pitcher: Would You Like To One of the proposals brought up having intelligent ideas. th f h l f th t Take A Walk. at Saturday's meeting of the Grad- No attempt is made to deny that more an a . ew w o earn rom e nex FI'rst·. Where Ever· You Go I'll uate c 'I t t ounm was o crea e at some students have unsound ideas, day's paper the opponents' name.) Follow You. Union a Hall of Fame, in which but this surely cannot constitute Second: I Never Had A Chance. pictures of the famous alumni the basis for the careless unintellec- Third: It's a Long Long Way. could be hung. The motion was tual dismissal of all their ideas. S. S.: I Just Couldn't Helt It, politely tabled. Perhaps somebody The desirability of altering the Baby. had seen the student body flinch present status of things somehow L. F.: The Sun Shines Bright. as it entered the chapel only to be seems repugnant to this· modern C. F.: Whl·d Goose Chase. confronted by the forms of famous adult, although remarkable scien- R. F.: Solitude. shadGws and the cold clammy gaze tific and other advances have given Batter: Smoke Gets In Your of the Reverend Jonathan. Ed- him profound faith in the idea of HELP WANTED Eyes. wards hung near the chancel. progress, and yet, by his aforesaid Are there any amateur photographers on \' \ * • * \' attitude, he is prone to consider the Frankie and Johnny, we find, is It is amazing what education the l:nion College campus? This is not a a direct steal from Billy Shake- can do for one. The philosophy present \good enough for· me.\ b h d . By virtue of its inexperience, rhetorical question, but a very serious one speare; to ibe more specific from oys a a senunar at Colgate over th h t the V act of \Twelfth Night\ where the weekend, and lo and behold you as a on<:e an advantage The Concordiensis wants a student photo- Malvolio exclaims, \Madam You've the golf team beat Colgate that and a disadvantage over its elders. done me wrong,\ afternoon. It must have been With life before it, youth is inclined grapher-Ol' photographers, if there ar.e sev- * * * Captain Langer. to be idealistic; with few preju- eral qualified. We have looked high and low.. With the approach of the exam- • * * dices, it is likely to be more recep- ination period it is more than in- After our frothy subject of sac- tive to ne wideas; but it often lacks We have asked all our friends. Now we are teresting to note the number of rificing something for the cause of the ability to judge those ideas with asking you. Faculty Teas. Just little get-to- a; ~tudent union, we were quite gra- the wisdom and sagacity that years gethers to improve the good rela- tlf1ed to see the vaporings in this of practical experience with the tions betwee!lJ faculty and students. column on the account of Mr. Gul- world of men can give it. Senility, The Concm·diensis needs more pi-ctur.e.s: news pictures, action pictures, informal por- traits, pictures only a student could get. If this need is to be satisfied, we must find a student with a knack of taking snapshots, some experience, and a fairly good camera of his own. He must be willing to scout around at odd times, and to stay up late once in a while, developing the photos so they can be rushed to the engraver for the next day's issue. Here is a chance for a little fame, quite a bit of work, and lots of fun and val- uable experience. If you are interested, or know s<Jmeone who might be, tell any mem- ber of the staff of The Concordiensis. * * •• nac's plan to ;bring the col.lelge more on the other hand, already settled After the articles in the Thurs- than $50,000 for $3.2{) a year from i~ life, is disposed to be cynical; day papers it is ·doubtful if Wally each student. A side from the fact with more contact with the world Foote will ever have the temerity tha~ this wa;s• ·quite a different prop- it is likely to find difficulty in ac~ to return to the scene of his early ositiOn than the Student Council an- cepting ideas which do not jibe ex- academic pm·suits. nounced at the elections, it is a actly with its hardened prejudices. * * • great idea, and not too expensive. Obviously, what is needed is a Respectfully submitted, Even if you are so poor as to smoke synthesis of the better qualities of E E ten-cen~ ~igarettes, it would only both. There Is a necessity for men 9 • · 5 • and Bee. mean gtvmg up an average of two with sufficient vision and clear- 0 of the filthy weeds a day. sighteduess to see and plan the NOTES ON OUR CONTEMPORARIES s. R. c. necessary ehanges and at the same --------------- t!me enou?'h hard-boiled pragma- Lafayette College have fol\bidden Drop · students to have their annual Inter- . Williams College recently an- fraternity !ball. · nounced that 30 courses will be Fiji Pet dropped from the 1935-36 curri- The Phi Gamma Delta fraternity aulum. at Ohio State University has given Deficit up its former mascot, a four-foot Because the Junior Prom deficit alligator. Now it has a spider hasn't been paid, authorities a.t monkey. tism to bnng them to realization. Youth has much to learn from age; age has much to learn from youth. Of the two, youth is much the more willing to learn, if only age will give it credit for what intelligence it has, and take the trouble to point out what Is t() be Ieal'11ed from the great lesson of experience. -M. I. T, \Tech\ = N T: Pu p T-1 nine will tion whic erne ·o'-clc eral may Dub w viet• and witl: Priz: han bacl Mid the VerJ Satl seco tunE 'I' I be ' at \'i COUl star and catc whil Cap basE ton Thif tear. inue T1 who Lor: cent sopl garc vete an yea1 outf rum U: ies c Roc crec batt pitc bin< be ' on 1 Dav Ji fie!< will cen1 aga· Sp; Al~ T mee day on bei:r and fici: A be c entc pro1 of J und bon two win in ' the be lll'OU will filii <>ffi Fri M C< e1 Ill rr. b; J

r- is r- a g n n e e THE CONCORDIENSLS; TUESDAY, MAY 14, 1935 Nine To Face Williams ~ere] INTRAMURALs J ~'d:·o~:~'?otg~~ T::; Trackmen Defeat Hamilton ll==L=e=ag=ue=St=, an=d=ing=.~= May 8, 1935 (Ineluslve) Softball Purple Has Beaten Yale, Shields~ N aguszewski And . Princeton, Mass. State, Hirst Score in Two; The fourth victory of the season was annexed by the varsity golf · team Saturday when it defeated a strong Colgate University squad 3¥.! to 27'2. Barely edging out tbe Maroon players in the final matches, the Union team increased Army and Other,s Burton to I. C. 4A. Si Phi W L its glory this season, now counting • gma -· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 1 0 among the teams it has defeated ''Boos • · • · · • • · • · · • • · · · · · · · · 3 3 one e>f the strongest teams in the T.he varsity 'baseball team, ,gun- ; Phi Sigma Delta · · · · · · · · · s· ll east among those it has defeated. ning for its fifth straight victory, By ~ULTON D~ BEDELL • .Chi Psi · · · ·· · ·· · ·• · · · '·· ·· 2 .4 5 Phil Little, who assisted the will meet plenty of stern competi- · Sweeping uide all op.position, the.~ Theta Delta C~i ;.. • · ~· · · · · · 1 Dutchmen in their one point margin tion in its game witfu Williams varsity track team toolr. every first . Eastern of victory by tying Alton, played a which will be ·played tomorrow aft- P.la-ce !1-gainst Hamilton, their tradi- W L fine match, catching up on the 18th ernoon on Alex,ander ~ield at 4:30 bon r1va:ls, ·and took every place •in. Beta: Theta Pi ... __ ... _ . . . 4 1 hole after making a poor start. o'.cloc:k. The Purple nm.e ha;:; sev-, four of the fourteen events. AfteT. ::Mirates .. , .......•.. , ..... 5 The tie was not played off and the eral good victories to its credit and. the dust had settled once more over.'Psi Upsilon 3 ~·point was divided. may upset the applecart for the · ·Alexander Field the Dutchmen· Sigma Chi . : : :: :: ::: : : : ::: 2 8 Bob Langer, who played his best Dutchmen. were victors by a 101 2-3 to 24 1'-3 Delta Chi ~ 6 games this season, easily defeated Williams opened its season with score. · · · · ~· · ~· · ~· · · · · · N()rd in his individual match, and Southern then paired up with Monroe Free- victories over Upsala, Princeton, , Tluee Double Wins L lich to take the four ball best ball and Massachusetts State, scattered Cl k Shi ds W 0 matches from Noyes and Nord. with losses to Lehigh, Rutgers, and ' ar ei came out in front Delta Phi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . e Princeton in a return llllat<lh. They, in the 120-yard h~gh hurdles and re- · Lambda Chi Alpha ... __ .. 5 2 Outstanding Golfer handed the Yale team. an 11-5 set-. peated in the low hurdles. His tillll.e· .Alpha Phi Delta . _ .... __ .. 2 2 Captain Dick Stewart, one of the for the f(). rme v t \d t• a1 Phi G D lt 0 4 outstanding golf players around back and conquered Ro<lhester. · r e en was 1 en 1c ·, amma e a ... , .... Middlebury was defeated,. and then, with his mark made against Roch- Phi Sigma Kappa . . . . . . . . 0 5 Buffalo, won the only match in the ester hil h t · d th h t • • individual play, beating Thatcher the Williams men held a strong ., w e e raverse e s or er • dl 'st i 27 d L N , W~ .. ~rn in a close battle, 1 up. Froelich, Vermont n1·ne to ·bare two runs. ance n secoil' s. eon a- . ~~..., ki · d ki w L who made another fine showing Saturday they gave the Army its guszews mtsse ma ng a new second setback of the seas<>n to the record in J:Joth the discus and sh<>t: Phi Delta Theta .•........ 6 0 for the Dutchmen, bested Noyes tune of 5-Z. put. He was over the present re-; V:andecars ....... _ .... _... s 1 in the single play to put Union in : cords on two occasions but was: Delta. Upsilon , ... _ .....•.. s 3 the lead. Stewart and Alton scored Two A-1 Hurlers disqualified for making a foul' Kappa Sigma. . , ..•... , .... 2 3 . a victory in the best ball tilts, 'rhe Purple starting pitcher will throw. He to()k the shot at 42, feet. 'Theta Nu Epsilon - ... --.. 0 7 winning <>ver Little and Thatcher. be either Sucher, who beat Union 1%, inches and the discus with a· --- Tomorrow the g-olf team will en- at Williamstown last year, 'bY a 2-1 tremendous throw of 124 feet lh · Horseshoes counter a W()rthy foe when the count or Sheehan, the sophomore inCJh. Sherman Hirst led the field , National Williams golfers journey to Sche- star who has victories over Yale home in .both da.shes. He :broke th~· w nectady. ·~ L The summaries: and Princeton to his ·credit. The tape in the hundred at 10.5 with: Beta Theta Pi ... _ .... __ .. e 0 Individual matches-8tewa 1 t lCJ catcher will be Moseley, a veteran, ·Chuck Krull dose behind in second: Chi Psi ................... 1 0 defeated Thatcher, 1 up; Little (U) while Hapgood will cover first ·base. 'Place. A:gain in the 220 Sherrn Alpha Phi Delta. .......... 4 1 tied Alton; Froelich lU) defeated Captain Navins will cover .second was out in front in 23 seconds flat.• Emerson-Larson . _ ..... _ .. a 2 Noyes, 3 and 1; Langer ( U) defeat- base with Forbes at sh<Jrt. Stan- Jack Bloom, sophomore, came up. Sigma Phi .......•..... -.. 2 2 N d 3 d 2 B t B II t h ton will be their third hase·inan. · ed or , an · es a rna c es to his pre-season form and did some • Delta. Chi ...... -. • . . . . . . . . 2 2 -Stewart and Alton l C) defeated This infield gives the Williams excellent work in the broad jump Psi Upsilon - .. -.- .... -- .. 1 2 Little and Thatcher, 1 up; Froe- team a group of veterans in the and the javelin t!Jlrow. His 160 Sigma Chi ................ 1 4: lich and Langer tU) defeated Noyes inner garden that are hard to beat .. foot 7 in heave in bhe javelin was: Th.eta Delta Chi .... , ..... 1 5 and Nord, 4 and 3. The outfield will have Stevens, the ·best seen in active competiti()n :Mirates .. - .. - .. -.-... . . . . . 0 S o•--- who bats around .400, .jn left field, this year. Jack came through in. • • • Green Fmsh Baseball Team Loranger, the clean-up. batter, in the ·broad jump for the first time American W center field, and Eddy Stanoiey, a also, trailing Em Burton by a few L Plays Drape!' High T()day sophomore batting .387, in the right inches to take second .place for the .Laurenski Bros. ·- · · · ·-- · · 5 0 garden. Two of these men are Garnet. Theta Nu Epsilon · · · · · · · · 1 0 The freshman baseball team will veterans, while Stanley has made Jack Ross and Vi Fryer ran one Pili Sigma Kappa · · · · · · · · 4 1 open its 1935 campaign on Alex- an impressive record so far this of the 'best races of the aftem<J()n, Pb.i Gamma Delta · · · ·- - · · 4 1 ander Field today at 4:30 o'clock year, giving the Purple invaders an t t k t · th 440 d Delta. Phi · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 2 1 against a good Draper Hich School outfield that rounds out a smooth- 0 a e one-. wo m e . :Yar run. ·Lambda Chi Alpha .. · · ·. · 1 3 nine. Lack of experience is going running combination. ~oss came tn with a. dnvmg finis;h, Delta Upsilon . -.- .... -... 1 3 to hurt the yearlings, who have m 53.1. Jerry Neuma!l': ran hts, Pni Sigma Delta .......... o 2 h t' f Garnet Undefeated ~sual heady :ace and fmJShed well Phi Delta Theta . - . . . . . . . . 0 'been ard at prac lee or over a U · 't'- f t · ht - t m the front :m the h. alf-.mile run In • • • T' month, and althou,gh showing im- . nmn, Wl '\ our s ra1-g VIC or- provement, will have a hard time ies over Stevens Tech, Swarthmore, 2:08.9. Bill Brockwehl finished Intramural g>ames which were taking the high school lads. Rochester, and Amherst to its third for Union in this race. :postponed have been rescheduled The line-up for the Garnet cubs credit, will again start the stellar Cl S Mil , as follows: finds Elmer \the Great\ Johnson in battery of Guy Griswold In the ean . weep In e Horeshoes . the pitcher's box with Floyd van pitcher's box and AI Stevenson be- Supposedly the weak link in the Chi Psi-Delta Chi, May 15, noe>n. . Ladd as the catcher. Hyman Enzer hind the plate. George Clark will Union tearn, the mile run was safe- Phi Gamma Delta,..Phi Sigma Delta, wil be on first !Jase, Phil Duoh- be on first 'base, with Mike Fiore ly tucked away in the Garnet game May :1!5, .noon. scherer on second, Don Buchanan on second, B{)lb Reed at short, and bag when Bill Brockwehl, Jerry Chi P.si-M;1rates, May 15, no()n. at short, and Jerry Spellman on Dave Cadwallader at third, Neumann, and Gildo Mirate finislli- Sigma Cht-Alpha Phi Delila, M:ay 15, third. Art Breymaier will be in Jim Loomis rwill again be In left ed in that order for the h()me team.. n'Oon. left field, Charlie McCavthy will field, and Captain Ralph Semerad · Brockwehl held the lead for prac- .Alpha Phi Del tar-Delta. Chi, May 16, · cover the center patch flanked by will lead his team-mates from the tically the entire run with the Ham- noon. Claude Wiley in right field. center field post. Ernie Brown will ilton runners· slowly giving way to Phi Sigma Delta-Laurenski Bros., again be in right field. the faster ·pace of Neumann and May 16, noon. Mirate. Lambda Chl Alpha-Delta Upsilon, Upsilon. Spiked Shoe All College to Sponsor Trtmk Meet Ed Bastecw ran a nice race in May 16, noon. Mirates-Emerson-Larson. the two-mile ibeatin.g out Wester- SlgTilla Chi-Mirates, May 16, noon. May 10 Chi Psi-Mirates. Theta Delta Chi-Chi Psi, May 17, Lambda Chi Alpha-Delta 'brook of Hamilton ·by ten yards.' noon Upsilon. SB:m Hewitt came ~n fast to take Phi Sigma KaJ)pa-Phl Gamma Theta Nu Epsilon and Sig-ma Phi The All College Interclass Track third place for_ Umon .. Mal Arny Delta, May 17, noon. have withdrawn and their games meet will be held next Satur- came throug_h m t~e high hurdles May 9 Phi Sigma Kap.:pa-Delta are declared forfeited. to take a thud behmd Beakes. -----~------------------------- day afternoon May 18 at 2 o'clock on Alexam:!Jer Field. The meet is . Another clean sw:eep was made being sponsored. by Spiked Shoe .m the shot, Nag takmg .first. Krull and faculty mem.bers will act as of- took second, ~n~ Joe Mllano. round'- ficials. ed out the Umon a.ggregat10n !or Any man attending e<>llege will the e':ent. Yan Wert is commg be eligible t<> compete but may not along m the pole vault and Coaeb enter more tham three events. 'Dhe Ketz has hopes that he will de- pr()gram for the meet will consist v.elop into a twel':e foot man. He of fourteen events and will .be run ~1ed Burton for fust at 10 feet 9· UnionNetmenDrop Two ToG. C.N.lr:, Swarthmore; Freshmen Lose Opener under the I C A A A .A rules. Rilb- mches. bons will be awarded to the first :Burton to IC 4A What victory several of the Gar- Hadley repeating his victory of last net teams had over the weekend year. coDlpensates for the losses sustain- The combination, Moffett and ed by the varsity and freshman ten- Stroebel, coordinated to set Hadley nis teams. After a long rest recov- and Turner back 6-3, 6-2. two place winners except when the winner is a member of Spiked Shoe in which case the prize will go to the nevt non-mem'ber. There will be n1> entry fee as origln·ally an- nounced. The entry 'blank which will be found on this page must be filled out and left at Coooh Ketz's office in the ·Gym •before 6 o'clock Friday night. ENTRY BLANK All College Inter-class Track Meet. Give name and class in college. Check the events to ·be entered. No man may enter more than three events. Entries must •be In Coacll Katz's office by 6 o'clock Friday night. Name ............... · · ·; - · · - · · · · Class ...................... · ... · High Hurdles 100-yard Dash ........ ~ .......... . Mile Run ....•.......•..... • .. •· 440-yard Dash . - ..... - ...... · · · · 2-mile Run ..•.......•..... • ·• • · Low Hurdles ..•..... - ....•• · . · · 220-yard Dash .......•..... - · . · · Em Burton and Coach Bill Ketz wm leave .here May 31 for Boston where Em will take part In th:e pole vault at the rc 4A meet to be held in the Harvard stadium. Em has proved that he Is one of the 'best vaulters ever to attend Union and his chan(]es for the meet on the 31st are not without hope. He is expected to do over thirteen feet, having already done 12 feet 10¥.! inches this year against Williams. Th.e SllDl!llaries ering from the Amherst debacle, Kent School Beats Frosh George Stroebel and his mates Kent School administered a 9-0 staged determined battles .a.gainst drubbing to the freshman tennis superior opponents, C. C. N. Y. and team Saturday at the Connecticut Swarthmore. Friedma.n Beats Stroebel school. Fritz Hawley, the tennis In the first match Stroel>el en- champion of the college, ran up countered Bernie F-riedman, the against a steady opponent, :Stanton, to whom he lost 6-8, 1-6. The rest New Yorker's No. 1 star. A <:l()sely of the team fared little better with contested match which was at no time one sided, was signalized by the possible exception of Vai,J.Norst- rand who extended Tate of Kent to long rallies. Friedman's tomnarnent three sets before relinquishing the knowledge, for he has been active match 2-S, 6-3, 1 -6. in many contests abcJUt the :Me.tro- T. h 1 ·s 1 ·s the yea.,lJ'ngs fl'rst real· 100-yard dash-Hirst (U). first; t d h' t ad ' Krull (U) sece>nd ; Olen (U) third. PDlitan district, s 00 liD 5 e . ' test, all the other matches sched- Time-10.5. politan district, stood his in ~od uled so far having been canceled by 220-yard dash-Hirst (U) first:; stead and enwbled him to come from rain. With more experience they Meyle (H) second; Saiewitz (U) third. behind in the opening chapters of should turn in creditable results. Time-0 :2&. the Dlatch to SU!bdue the Garnet The summaries of the varsity: 440-yard run-Ross (U) first; Fryer . ca.ptain. {U) second; Avery (H) third. Tirne- Jerry Rosen deserves a great deal C. C. N. Y. 0:53.1. of credit for the fine brand <~f ten- Singles--Friedman, C. C. N. Y., Half-mile-Neumann <U) first: Jones nis he showed both in his singles defeated Stroebel, 8-6, 6-3; Neubling, (H) second; Brockwehl (U) third. match and in his doubles Vllith' C. C. N. Y., defeated Fox, 6-2, 6--3; Time-2 :08.9. Collen. His sunerbly stroked back- Shapiro, C. C. N. Y., defeated Mof- One-mile run-Brockwell! (U) first: \' k fett 6-4 6-4• Kaplan C C N Y de U) hand repeated ly found the bac , , ·, , · . . ., - Neumann (U) second; Mlrate ( · f t d C h 6--3 6 3 R U · third. Time-4 :46.8. corners to pass Linchintez, down- ea e o en, • - ; osen, mon, Two-mile run- Bastedo (U) first; state left bander. The C. C. N. Y. defeated Linchintez, 12-10, 6-3; Gould (H) second; Hewitt (U) third. racket weilder, however. gave a Greenberg, C. C. N. Y;, defeated Time-10 :20.5. very good account of himself 'With Salad, 6-1, 6-4. 120-yard high hurdles-Shields (U) spectacular volleys tllat kept RQsen Doubles- Fried.man-Neubling, C. first; Beakes (H) second; Arny (U) running from corner to em11.er, but C. N. Y., defeated Stroebel-Maffett, third. Time-0 :16.6. J()st 12- 1 Q, 6-3. 7-5, 3--6, 6-3; Fox-McGee, Union, de- 220-yard low hurdles-Shields (U) Stroebel ·and Moffett n-laved the feated Shapiro-Kaplan, 7-5, 6-3; first; Esterbrook (H) second ; Swart- ,.. ~ ,.. 11 u i d f d L' . out (H) third. Time o :27. ()nly extra game match, extending Rosen .... o en, n on, e eate m- Shot-put-Naguszewski (U) first; Friedman and Neubling b tllree chintez-Greenberg, 6-4, 5-5 (default Krull (U) second; Milano (U) third.. sets before losing. By winning two to Union)· \', '. Three Potential Strength Exhibited by Union Lacrosse Teatn Despite Stevens' Win Lord Jeffs Bow As. Nine Wins Again Griswold Is Pitching, Batting· Star in 15 t() 2 Defeat Of Amherst Outfit The undefeated varsity base- ball team, continued its merry winning streak Saturday afternoon when it took Amherst College into camp by the one-sided score of 15-2 in a game played on Alexander Field. Guy Griswold, besides hit- ting a home run through the fen-ce in center field, went the route for his third win of the current cam- paign. Griswold Hits Home Run Griswold's horne run started the ·ball rolling in the first inning scoring Fiore ahead of him. Palmer, first of three Purple and White pitchers, got safely throug-h the second inning, but met his Waterloo in the third when six Garnet markers came across the plate. Again it was Griswold who lit the fuse for the blow out when he singled for .his secon·d hit of the day. Jim Loomis was out on a grounder tt.o the second baseman, putting Griswold on second. Palmer then walked Ernie Brown and Dave Cadwallader and all three men scored on Al Stevenson's single. Bob Reed singled, putting Steven- son on third when George Epple, ace hurler for the Purple and White who had been playing first base, went to the pitcher's mound for Palmer. George Clark, first man to face the new pitcher was hit .by him and got to first to load the ·ba.'les for the second time in the frame. Six Runs Scored In Third Hoboken Ten 17 t() 11 Victors Despite Last 'Quarter Garnet Rally By HYMAN A. ENZER .A free-sco1ing contest that thriil- ed the hearts of the many alumni and friends of the college who watched the lacrosse contest Sat- urday afternoon between Union and Stevens Tech ended in a vic- tory for the more experienced Hoboken ten, 17 t<J H. Filled with fine passing and at times with $p€ctaC!ular defen.slve work, the two teams put on an ex.hibition well worth seeing, The Garnet showed potential as well as inunediate stFength in holding down and scoring on a learn nom one of the oldest la- crosse colleges irr America. The Stevens ten, fresh from numerous Victories over several €astern insti- tutions, found th.e opposition a bit tough in the fir·st part of the con- test, and in th& f1nal period was cO'nstantly in danger of losing its lead. High Sc~1·ers Frank Disch, captain of last year's basketball tea.n1, and his high scoring partner on the court, B11l \Sar: Salvatori, were the high scorers rn the game Saturday. l'wel ve seconds afte1· the first goal was made .by Disch, Hal Vandecar slipped past the Stevens deferuJe to tie the score. .Jack Smith countered for Union after a short period of inactivity for both teams, and then Vandecar raised the UniD'Il total with another shot. Within a few seconds before the first quarter whistle blew, Salva- tori, AH-American center, whipped the ball past T'ornpkins in the Union cage to bring the score to 3-2. The second period was Stevens', six. goals being made then by the Semerad's pe>p fly to right field visitors, while Captain McNab, was missed by Whitmyer who pick- playing a brilliant game on the de- ed it up and threw to first base tense, scored the only point in that barely catching Semerad by inches. frame for Union. Stevenson scored on the play. Hugo Bergman sandwiched a Mike Fiore's single scored Reed go!.!! in between the four that were and Clark,, and Gt·iswold, up for the made by Price and Salvatori in the second time in the inning, forced third period, and the stage was set Fiore at second for the third out. for the last quarter of action. Epple .prog-ressed safely tht·ough Liffiton s~ores the fourth and fifth innings, ·but me~t a lot of trouble in the sixth. .Almost every man on the Union Fiore singled and was safe at learn managed to score a goal be- second when Fusco bobbled Gris- fore the end of the game. Don wold's grcmnder to force Fiore at Liffi ton netted the ball within one second. Loomis and Brown both minute of the opening of the grounded out, ·but Cadwallader, who pe!'iod, and in rapid succession played one of the best games of his Russ Knox, playing a good game college career, doubled to score at center, and Stan. Mower, tallied Fiore and Griswo.Jd. Stevenson for Union. Salvator-i, h(}wever, was singled to score Cadwallader, Reed yet on the alert, and in his usual singled, but Clark struck out to end football charg·ing manner crashed the innings. the Dutchmen's defense to tally twice. One more marker came across Jack Smith, giving another peer- home pla;te for the Dutchmen in the less performance on the attack as seventh when Semerad singled, well as the defense, was the spark went to second on Fiore's grounder, plug of the Union ten in the last reaC!hed third on a wild pitch and few minutes. Within three minutes scor·ed on Loomis' grounder which he and MacMurray had scored for forced Griswold, who had walked, Union, and shortly afterwards he at second. charged his way alone through t() Three Rtms End Scoring the Stevens goal for another score. The Dutchmen ended their scor- Price, the thi-rd of the Stevens ing in the eighth inning with thr·ee scoring triumvirate, banged in the more runs, when three errors com- Jut goal for Stevens to end the bined with two walks gave the scoring for the day. Dutchmen the rest of their score. The summaries: Stevenson walked after Cadwall- Union (11) S'tcvens Tech (17) ader had fanned. Waltman's error G Tompkins .............. Otaka allowed Reed t() reach first and P Agius ........ _ .... _ ... Hevert Stevens1>n. t() go to second·. Boyle's CP McNab ... , . . . . . . Remeschatis throw to catch Reed at first went 1D Kennedy _ ........... Brundage OU!t into right field scoring Steven- 2D Liffiton . _ .... _ .. _ .. _. _ .. Disch son and putting Reed on third. C Knox ...... _ ......... Salvatori Clark walked, and Reed stole home 2A Vandecar ....... _ , .. , .. Young :a~~~ t~a~~;[s~i~~i~he~e~~~~J.~ ~ :~f:~~ . .'.'.'.'.\ .. .'.\ . .\.'.'.'.'.'. ~~~ grounder forced Clark at second. IH MacMurray ...... , . Him berger The Garnet captain then stole sec- Scoring: First Period-Disch !S) ond when Coey, the Amherst hurler, 2:48; Vandecar (U) 3:00; Smith (U) threw to catch him at first and he 9:17; Vandecar('(]) U..:37; SaJv:::ot~i'i· made second safely. Waltman's (Sl 14:15. SeC!on.d Period- Salvatori seC'ond error of the inning allowed CSl 4:04; 4:08; M:cN'ab (U) 6:40; Fiore to reach first and Scmerad Hevert <SJ S:23; Salvatori (S) 9:45; to score. Griswold grounded out Disch (8) 13:06, H:45. Third Period to the pitc-her for the last out of the· -Price tS) 1:55, 2:55; Bergman (U) inning. 7 :4S:; Salvatori CSJ ~3:40, 9:14. Fourth The lucky seventh w.as the only Period-Liffitou tUl :5~; Knox (U) inning in which the Purple and 2:46; Mower <U> 3:12; Salvatori (S) White C()U!d score at all. Whit- 4:18, 5:40; Smith !Ul 7:00; Price (S) myer and Turner both singled and 7 :17; Salvatori :02; M:acMurray (U) C!ame home on fielder's choices 10:46; Smith !Ul 13:08; Price (S) when Homiller and West were both Ul:30. played at first •base. Substitutions: Union - Mower, The Summary Robinson, Thomas, Fraser, Marsella. Union (15) AB R H PO A f: Stevens-Magulrth, O'Boyle, Opo Semerad, cf, (Capt.) . 5 2 1 1 o o !ant. Gatty. Fiore, 2b . .. .. . . .. .. .. 6 2 ~ 3 4 n ----a---- Griswold .. p ........... ,, 3 ~ 2 1 o Lo~>mis, If ... , . . . . . . . . 4 0 0 2 o o BrGwn, rf . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 l !l o 0 n Cadwallader, ab ...... 4 2 2 2 6 II Stevenson, c . . . . . . . . . . 4 2 2 3 o o Reerl, gs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 2 2 o :! o G. Clarl,, lh .......... l l 0 14 f1 ~ Totals .............. 38 15 l1 27 13 2 Amher•t (2) AB R H PO A E Fusee>, 2h (Capt.) .... 4 11 o 2 5 1 Wn.ltman, s~ ......... 3 0 0 2 3 2 Chapma11, f • . • . . • . . . • 4 0 0 2 0 0 OUTING CLUE TO MEET A. very important meeting of the Outing Clu'b will ibc held Wednes day evening at 7:30 ~·clock in Mr Wyatt's room in .s. S. S. C. All members are to he present to dis cuss plans for \C()>l!ege Week,\ and hear report of the In.tercollegeate Outing Club Gonfet·ence. Boyle, c ......... - ... - 4 o 1 8 o 1 FOOTBJ\.LL NOTICE 8ppe, lb-p · - · · · · · · · · · 3 0 O 3 1 0 All football candidates for next Whitmyel', rf ......... 4 1 1 1 1 11 t Turner, rf ............ 4 1 1 2 o o year mus report at the Gym to be Ho.miller. 3b- I h . . . . . . 2 o o 4 o o · rneas ured for suits before 3:30 to Distance-42 feet, llli Inches. doubles and one singles match. the Swarthmore : High jump-Burton (U) first: Bloorn, Garnet team was a.ble t() ltl(l!d the Singles-Hadley, Swarthmore, de- Arny (U) and Robinson (H) third. score to 6-3. feated Stroebel, 7-5, 6-4; Albertson, 88G--yard Run ........ - .. - , ...•.. Broadjump Pole Vault High Jump ...... 0 ••••• ' ••••••••• 0 I 0 0 0 0 0 10 I 0 • 0 0 0 I 0 0 0 00 0 I t t o i o 0 1 o 0 I o to 0 I o 0 I 0 0 I Discus ...........•..... ·· • · · ·• • ·shot Put t o o o o o o o t o I o o I\ o t o 0 o o t 0 Javelin Throw ....•...•.• ··· • · · • • • Height-5 feet 7 Inches. Meets Third Defeat Swarthmore, defeated Fox, 6-2, 6-2; Discus-Naguszewsld (U) first, Nes- Against Swarthmore the tearn Whyte, Swarthmore, defeated Mof- bitt (H) second; Milano (U) third. met its third defeat. Agaill R.osen fett, 6-4, G-2; Hutson, Swarthmore, Distance 124 feet 1h Inch. Pole vault-Burton and van wert was the only singles win!ler, de- defeated ·Cohen, 6--3, 7-5; Rosen, (U) first; I.,athan (H) third. Heig-ht feating R()!bert Turner 6-3, 2-6, 6-:1. Union, defeated Turner, G-3, 2-6, 6-1; 10 feet 9 inches• As in the previous match :Rosen's Macy, Swarthmore, defeated Salad, Broad jump-Burton (U) first·: angle shots were distinctive and 3-6, 6-0, 6-2. · Bloom (U) second; Swartout (H) tblrd. very tantalizing to his O!>JlOnent.. Doubles-stroebel-Moffett, Union, Distance-20 feet 9 inches. The captains of both teans, :Paul defeated Hadley-Turner, 6-3, 6-2; Javelin throw-Bloom (U) first; BrY- H:adley of the Quakers anci Stroe- Albertsen-Whyte, Swarthmore, de- zostowslti (U) second; DeOzeved() <Hl bel, mot 1ft the first encountEl' 'With feated Rosen-Cohen 6-B, 6-4, 6-4. Jb=========-===;;;;;!1 third. Distance-160 feet 7 Inches. .., .. West. 3b ............. 2 o 1 o o o morrow. Pame-1:, p ............. 1 0 0 o o o· ---------------- Coey, p . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 0 0 () 1 0 Totals .............. 32 2 4 24 1i 4 A,m.herst . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 000 000 200- 2 l;mon .. , .............. 206 003 13x-15 Two-base hits-Cadwallarler. Runs batted in-Griswold, 2; Cadwal- ader. 2 ; s-tevenson. 3 ; Reed, 1 ; Fiore. 2. Home run~--Gris'\\·old. Stoen bn;es-Turner, Lnmni~·, St.:•nle~ rnd, Reed. Double plays-Cadwallader to Clarl<. Lest on bases-1Jnion•, 9; Amherst, 5, · Base on ·balls-Palmer, 5; Epple, 1 Coey, 3; Griswold, ~- Losing pitl'lilet·-~almer. Hits r>ff-Pnlmer. n in 2 1-3 innings; E!llj:)le, 5 in 3 2-3 ltt.nln·gs ; Coey, 1 ii1 2 inning!'!: ( ;ri~\.:~:old, 4 In~~ innings. Hit by pitrheJ', hy BJ>I>le- G. ClMk. Strudi out l>r-Lhlowohl, 3; I)oalmer, 0; Hpple, 4; Coey, t Wild pitches-l~pple, Coey. Umpires-Connelly. ': II i t '. ,} ~ : !'! ! ' I , '

Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MAY 14, 198:5 Glee Club- Twelfth Night- Experienced Syracuse CentFal Garnet Ready by JYiay l5 · High Team Vanquishes Frosh .by Mt·s. Hawthorne Deming, and The Editor-in~Chief of the Gar- . Maria pla:yed lby Miss Bertha Lloyd, net, Gemge N. MeUnette '36, re- <Continued from Page ll \Ted\ Whipple leader; \Clem\ Ba- thway and Donald Hawkt>H. were e<lpecially well done, in view, Smail, experienced ' stickwork ceived .a .letter recently from Dou- f l f t th f I bleday and Doran, publishers of the Althoug-h Prof. Taylot· does not participate regularly in th\ club's activity, h(' !\ alway:< n·ady to lend advice :1nd Pnrouragpment to the ciu:bs enterprise. u l 1e ac · at mu.:;t o t wm were ·and team play we1 e the muin rea- ~ Ja·rgely minor parts. year book, stating that the book>~' Among the others who tmned in ::>on::; for the ::;ylaclll:le Centw.l High· would be ready for delivecy on May· good pcrfur.mancc~ were \\.allace l:khuul lact·o;;;;e team's 19 to 1 vic- 16th and wil! be ·sent by truck. H. Hughe;; a::; Seba::;lian; s. Ralph· to 1 ·y over the Un·ion freshman ten The reason::> for the delay in <lend-· Wells, a junior and the new leader, has been a member of the Glee Club for the past three years, as well as the college choir. He has been a member of the college Quar- tet and was ma,;ler of ceremonies in th<> Glee Club nnveltv \kit. In his \ophomm·e year h(' was a mem- ber of thP Sophom<>rf' Di,.,riplinary Committee. HP is affiliatN:! wHh the Beta Theta Pi fraternity. C h A t · d W'll' w ing, the Gai:n<=t on, fol' it wa~ nrevi-· · o en as n onw; an 1 · 1am . Saturday afternoon here. With a \ :!'.1ulvey as Fabian. The cast was ously ·Planned to distribute the year completed by Hyman Enzer as the brilliant passing attack, featured book on May 3, were that tbe staff: :oea captain; Bernard Salad as by the work o~ boys. who have had to· make additional.proof read~ Valentine; Charles M. Little as the been handling .Jacrosse sticks for ings and several engravings were .. fii:::;t officer; J. Lawrence Hennes- man.y years, the high school team. _h;:e::ld::·::u::p:;:.:::;:::;:::;:::;:::;:::;:::;:::;:::;:::;=~ :oey as the second officer; Donald outplayed the cubs in all depart- ,. llutalil1g a:; the pdc:ot u.nd Ben- tncnts .of the game. • 1' c l ll t c·.H:A .. ·Rt' E'S' ·Fo,EDme,STly JU.m n u len a.; 1e sen·an . Union'::; lone score was made in · · The ·!Jwducliun otuff, doing a fine the opening nlinutes of the game The G)fflclal Union College Barber julJ ami making the !JIUduction by Pat England, and thereafter .the for the past 24 years. Ask any Kimball, a junior, manager for the coming se:>son has b('en a mem- ber of the Glee Club and college choir since entering Union. He has been assistant manager of the Mountebanks and associate editot' of the Garnet. He is a member of the Psychology Club and the Ger- man Club and is affiliated with the Chi Psi fraternity. smooth, cQnsisted of the following: Syracuse team had ·its way with upper classrnen, they !mow. 11 Robert T. Shreve as stage manager; the scoring column. The lineup g~~~~~rs. Schenectady's greatest · Benjamin \\'ilsun, a::;:;istant man- for the yearling~ wa~: Nott at goal, COR, STA:TE AND nnOADWAY ager; Arthur Firth; stage car;penter; V. Smith at point, Carter at •Cover- ~;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;~;;;;~~;;;;;;;;;~ Carlton Garrison, property man- point, Gerber at first defense, ager; August Swyka, scenic design- Laure.nski at second defense, Cam- . er; Tony Sharpe, prompter; Robert marota at center, England at see- M. Brown, master electrician; ond attack, Templeton at first at- Joseph A. Woolman, house man-' tack, Thompson at out home, and ager; James Kimball, assistant· Laurence .at in home; reserves- manager, and Milt<>n M. Enzer, · Schultz, Jacober, Ladue, Has- Frank Gatchell and William Boyd, both of the sophomore class, were appointed as~i;;tant managers for next year. The position of li- brarian was created and Frank Gatchell designated to keep the music. Don Hawkes, the past man- ager, who will be at Union another year was asked to act as student graduate manager. brouck and Reed. manager of publicity. , ----0----- Thomas- (Continued from Page 1) fects of the most extraordinary nobility and grandeur. ln \Widmung which opens Mr. Thomas' ·program, are united the purely lyric element one finds in such splendor in 'Schubert and the subtle and mobile exprc:;sivenc~s which characterizes the work of Schumann. Thi;; song, !ike most of those by this greateot of \lieder\ compo:;et s, rcsewblc·s the old .Eliz- abethan love poetry in the unforced fe!Jctt:)o' of it,; ead•·nce and the whole;;omc ft e~hness uf it,; spirit. It is t·efined hut nor cold, emotional but not ft·vet i«h, t>nd re\'t·als that reverence for punty ll!Hl beauty W·h·Jeh Franz nnd l he E!Jzabethnn -poets ha Vl' in ('orun:un. ThP plugtalll :1;.'\' ilH:iudt•!:i a glllUP ,,f piano l~lltll:ill'r.; h~ :\lr. ·rhonl~l:-· ac<·,,nqo:t!ll:-t, (\~ui lloll- lStt:r. ~ll•tulwr~ uf ttL' a:-~ocialion \\'Ill bt• Hdmlttt·d tD tLt• t\OilCt•It upon p:t•.-..t·ntatic~n ,,f tLeu· n;,·ntbt·t- ~hlp c.t! lb \\tth :~tHb:-; atta<\Lt·n. Th1• l'n•~.;ram ·· • ...::.t1• :t.,. II· .,.,1 .t·.• \\ .d!J.dl.g' .\II I !·••Ill ' 1' •!1.1. ... 1) ., 1\ •d !-'!.\',/. .\r 1w l:r.,• Ill' .;\.{.t: X )l.t I~ B·olll!tt• J: ... J:.-~tl~:...:~t·L~ La C.dh•·dr.do· 1-:t!':.;,• tltlt• j 1, lo\J-~y \,_',·•·I 1 ),\::• t I ;],l.]lht 1 ~lr. Jl··l!..-~~·r ]'!L~·~:,!t• )1\J\• I' I~ Ill!; d:--t· Ft•\ 1 ., r ~~~- :-~It\' IILI\'t' t'll d d J:.1X (..,!'lt •: :.• :-'· •11 fl I :tiL t• 1.• I \I II il!d '\:-i.t\():1.•·. 11• Ill '\lit:· d!.t·.•· \1 , ....... ,,t'\ 1!•-nt.,t· 1-:.ul o':\1• l.t\ .<II hit· ... J,J Tht·n 1:-. ;t Lttd) t' . Btl I v Hoh \\'hill' , , . . . . . . . \\'nil'~· Su~:--l·X SaJJ•,r .. .. .. . .tlr t 'h.tt It·~ \\'hdl ] lh.ltk tiJitiJI tht• .\l.tldt ll .... lk:td 0· Sclzl'nt>rtadimls- <Contintwd from Pag<' 1 l ing result:;. 1 <'ach figure includcil 4 i.-lands for 30 minuto·s.l }}ate l''-l\1 1'-t•d :\lun',h i\'I.Lr.d to 1:-Lu:d f11r c,f.April lu~.tttl crt''-\'11<:..!\ a r,.t .• , I:• '~ !--ltl'l-f \\.{•nthPr :u.·l i1 1--. ... c·~ 1~. ratlt\' ~\II ,.r l~•r: ::ln~ or '1~ lj, r.un'v '~;i •·r :·7-' ~·~···: •·r 7.1'' ~~. f.L.r. •\' \r :.:•;•; 1'\1 \~' 7J•: :!:•. f.t, !' ·;'tl t •! ..: :, ' : __ • I •1' , :, • , ·rut 11.... .. 1 • '\ • ·t : 1, · ·' ; .: .. I ~' • (:1-t .. Hln\1...:})-' PJ10lli-:h. if thP ft:,..:lliE':4 are an;:li~~Zl'd h~· Ht>parate i:-land::, almost •·xnrtly tlw samP p•·n·•·H·t- age.:-~ Ill t·v.:ul <:t c ach of tt·,,. four points checkPd, The count ~hows quill' ciParly that fu1· cv~t) pedcblt ian who U:il'<' .the <lnfety lslatHL.; for the purpo\e for which they were con~tructcd, three rnorp pPdl'strians usP thPm for what might be called the Eliza- crossing·lhl'-ice mPthod of getting from one :;ide of State st red to the other. Thrre se('ms to be little doubt that hop.ping frnm-<'ur·b-to- island-to-i,.,l:md-to-cut·b i~ t!w safest way of gt·f tang act (I .... ~ undE·r }JrC':-.<'nt circum;;tanc('s. Rut it has several long-run dr•ndvantng<'\· In the first place it con<'entra!Ps pedes- trians at tlv· nnrrowt·~t holll<\-nPrk points where .they cause the max- imum delay to passing motorists, or else miss their throlleys because they cannot pierce a moving stream of cars. And much worse the present system, or lack of system, definitely educates the pedestrian to jaywalk. Most cities have found that the only way to control paywalking is to have plainly marked cross-walk• protected by light• which give the pede.stl'ian a sporting C'hance to gain the other side of the Hlreel. Schenectady prefers to sub•titute safety-island hopping combined with the maximum \fr·eedom of the streets\ for wandering foot-pass- engers who tour diagonally at every known angle. That so many <Jf them survive uncrippled is a tribute to the self-control of the drivers who crawl along while Schenecta- dians dodge. The Gazette Press PRINTERS Fr~J&y Ice Oieam has been awm<hldl t:lw \Good! H:omekee})o in~' seal of approv~, ear~ . awarde!l! tor purity', 'eleaniinees .and lJ_uality of ingredient&, At Your Dealer 1 S Store or PHONE 4-3121 -' , .. .: .. • . .t. I ' U,NION COLLECE BOO:K STORE Room i5• Administration Building CO·LLEGE-- '~ . '• ·\ Seal. Jewelry Pennants. Pillows 1 Banners and Plaques :Oie Stamped Stationery Banhe~ and ~aques On Display New Remington Portable Typewriter Desk •• :'i.t.-:; ........... . -for that better taste andfragrant aroma · .. ·.·.·; ... Turkish tobacco leaf is so tiny that each of these bales contains from 70 to 80 thousand leaves. But there's another and greater difference-Turkish is the most spicy and aromatic tobacco in the world. We have Chesterfield buyers in all the tobacco markets ofTurkey and Greece, including Xanthi, Cavalla, Smyrna and Samsoun. And when you blend and cross- blend aromatic Turkish tobacco with mild ripe home-grown to- baccos as we do in Chesterfield -you have a milder cigarette, a better-tasting cigarette. ; ... ;: . ............................................... _. , ................... · ..... ~ ....... : ..... ;.., .......... ~.- ................... ;:,;;,., .. ·:-~- .. -.::·:·.·. :·.-:· ........ :· ... - ......... -~ THE t worke mdi:\/ c Ansd Ions\ r . . . . . t~ . 1··~: .· I'·::.:;·:· ! .·, .. '.! .1t'··· F~ t~\'\ ~ ~\\' {~ ~ i'~-~~~: \:li

Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MAY 14,193.5 Twelfth Night- Experienc'ed Syracuse Centl:al Garnet Ready by May 15 Glee Club- <Continued from Page 1 l -- High Team Vanquishes Frosh by Mr·s. Hawthorne Deming, and The Editor-in-Chief of the Gar- :\lal\ia played by :IIliss Bertha Lloyd, net, George N. Melinette '36, re-. \Ted\ Whi·pplc !cadet; \Ch•m'' Ha- thw;l\' and D•mald l-hwl«'\· were e\pecially well done, in view Sma 1 t, expe 1 iuneed :;tick work ceived a letter recently from Dou- d tl:t· lad that mo~t ,,f th•·t!l w,•·te ant! ·t.eam ]•lay \H't c• the m;.;in r,c•a- bleday and Doran, publishers of the Im f;eiy minor JHnts. year boolt, stating tha·t the book<~ Althnugh l'rnf. Tayl<'l' d<>P~ not pttflf'JJit\.,l lt.:HltJ!y 1n tht· club':-. ttf:'.''\ i:• 1 ,·~v. I· l1,\ •,. !· ~:·! .\•:nt:l.! tl.t• •·•th•·l:' \\I.·• tuln•··! in !o<ms for the ::-:ytanJ . .;p Central High would be teady for delive1-yon May .. .• 11 ~' 1 : 1 , 1 • 1 t 1 , 1 11 : \'\ ... ,, 11 t. \\\.t!'l.:. ;-.t t., .. .I l.·t·to~: ·t t,·,tlll·:-- 1~1 t\ 1 \ ll'- lfi~~l and wiH ht• :·wnt h~· ttu~·k. -! \ , I · . , : o : • t ' ~ t ' • ' • ' ; : ' C'illho< Pnl<'l'pnop \Veils. a junior and the new -1f\'111P!' h·1-: hrPn a JllPlltlw·r of tht· Glt>e CIU·b to1 th<'.P\'t th·lt'<' )t'<tl~. a;-; v.·rH n~ thr C\nll(·~~l <'hflir. He> ha~ lw••n H nlPmh1'l· of thP c·o\]Pgt• l}u:-tr- tt:t ;t·lld W<t~ JJ\,~-...td· uf l'\'l <·Inr.~nh·:· in thP G!<-P C'luh nnvt>ltv >'kit In hi~ :-:opho:uol-l' yl'=\t ht• \\'~1..~ a llll'Ill- bC'r of tht• Sophnmnt•' Di<ciplin\ry CommiH('e He i\ afflliat•·d vnth the Beta Theta Pi ftaternity. .. ..... .. .. <.·t .. l r 1 ,., :< i: ,.,. 1 ,[ 1 :.,:., ,·.,.! ·.r. 1 • t !.I.:! fr, !I'!J: I'll lt·l' I lht· tt·:~:-utk tot tht• tit·lay.'n ..... t·t~d­ \'t•l:t·n a> .\ntnnio; and \\'llliam \\' 1 \· ·'·. .. . t ,. ,. \ 1116 tilt: Li..ttlld uu, hH 1t \···· J••n·• '\! 1 ,_,b. Tl 'l\'utwua) ,tftltnoun lllf'. \\ttl! • 1 ousl\ planned to distribute the ''car - u \'PY as ra tan. 1e Ca$t was . . . ,J .J .. •l!:']•ld···l by Jiy 111 ,,n Enz<·:· '\ t h·· , bttllw.nt pa~~m~ attack, featured book on May 3, ~e.re that the Htaff ';:a c~ptain; Berna·rd. Salad as I by the wm:k vf buy~ wl1u have ·~Uttl to make addttt~•nai i'.t·oof read-. \ alc·nt111e; Chatles }.!. Ltttle a~ the . been h:mdlm~ lacrosse stick,; for mgs and several engravmgs were :a ~t ufftccr; J. La wrcncc Hum e. nmny yP:H!', t hP high srhool tf'a m held up. ~,·y. ~::;. tire. second. ufficer; LJunalLI II outplayed .the cuus in uH dqnnt- ;::==========.:;.:;=:..;.~:.::: l!ut;,..tn~ as the pne\t and i:ten- nwnb of the game. CHARLE Formerly pmin l'otlln as the servant. Union's June score was made in S' ED'S The: ·l••.uul!rtwn btaff, <ioin;; a f~IW 1 the opening n•·inutes of the game The Official Un!on College Barber JoO aw.l tll<~km:; Uw pt od uc~wn by Pat England, and thereafter the for the past 24 year-s. Ask any sn.ooth, consisted of the followm·g: :Syracuse team haLl its way with upper classmen, they know. 11 Eimbctll. a junior, manager for thf' con1ing ~t 1 :l~on ha~ hPt'n a nlPnl- ber of the Glee Club und coHegP rhoir .-ince cnt Ni ng l:nion. He has been u,;:;totant manager of the Mountebanks and a,Hocinte t>ditor of the Gatnd. He i' n member of the Psycholog-y Club and the Ger- man Club and is affiliated with the Chi P:;i fmtetnity. I:ob:r·t '!· Shz.eve a:; stage manager; the scoring column. The lineup .~~;~~~~rs. Schenectady's greatest !3t.:nJ<.t:llltn \\ tl~un, assJ~tant man- for the y.:arlings was: Nott at goa'!, COR. STATE AND DROADWA 'Y a~er; Arthur Ftrth, stage carpenter;. V. Smith at point, Carter at cover- ( arlton Garnson, ·propt>t·ty man• point, Gerber at fir~t dl'fl'nsl', Frank Gatchell and William Boyd, both of the sophomore cla.%, we1 e a[JlJUllllcd a;:..::.i.:;.t .. Ull lll.J..ll ... q;cl..c- for nex:t year. The po,;ition of li- brarian wa\ ct e.tted and Frank Gut~hell dc>ir,;n.t.\t'J h> l,cq> the music. D<Jn Hawke·:<, the past man- ager, who will be at L'nton another year was a:;ked to act Ill! :;tudent manager of ~ublictty. ager; August Swyka, :;cenic design-. Laurenski at ,;eeond defen,;e Carn- er·; Tony Bharpe, prompter; Robert, murota at center, England ~t sec- :\1. Hrown, master electrician; ond attack, Templeton at fir:;t at- Joseph A. \Noolman, hou.;e man- tacit, Thompson at out home, and ager; James KimbaH, as:;istant Laurence at inhome; reserves- manager, and Milton Jl.i. Enzet·, Schultz, Jacober, Ladue, Has- :.;raduate manager. brouek and Reed. 0 Thomas- (Continued from Page 1) fects of the most ex:ttaordinary nobility and grandeut. In \\\'itlrnung which opens Mr. ThomaB' prog·ram, m·e united the purely lyric clement one find:; in such splendot· in :Schubert and the subtle and nwbtle expre.-stveue:<B which charactenzes the work of Schumann. Tim; son~. ltkc most of those by tf.ts greate:'t of \lieuer\ eon1}Ju~e1~, lt.'til'Z.t..Ult·~ t lie old Eliz- abethan Jove pot!ll.Y m the unfutced feltclty tJf i·b radt·nce and the \Vhule:_h>llle :t·t._·:--hnt·.-:-:. of its ~pirit. It j,; rl'fme·d but Ill>!' cold. t·mutionul but n\t le\<'ll,tJ. ;.n<l lt'\'talti that I rt.:ven:ncc fnt· }lllltty ~dni bt.·auty I \\'hH:n Ftanz and tLt' Elti-~a~bethan I Jlttt•t~ h:t\\l' Ill l'tJ~Jl!!.~tll, The J•H.J~t ·~till illL :th.t•:-> a ;...:tuu,p 11f ·t·;:tll\ t.\:JJ. 1 l!t'r b~ :\lL '1' J.t Ill:::: ; 1 ( I I 'J:.J l:: 1 : . (_. ,ll I ~):. I i ( lll- 1:--tet. :\h·rl.'IH J ...... ,.1 t : .. • a:-.~•H t:ttion wtll .bt• tuinll!lt·,o to t!.t' t tJI&t't·Il I' UJJOI\ .lJI•'.·t'l~~:t11c.!J t•f l::t·lt ll.t'!llllt·t- ~Llp t.t~•-:-. ··~•::, .tuh- .tt~.~··l_t·d. [ Tilt• I'I\IIJ.:n!lll I! \ '. ''I~ I I •• : .... • \ lf :: • •:It I • • ':. 1 ,- J• IT l ,;,-:. }) I T ,. l-:' ' I I ~ ~J.t: \ ~Lt \. ;...: • I ~ 1 ~-L t ·.t: :;t · •ir. t 1• I .11 ~ .• .,, 1 ,,. I 1 • l•\1 .... ~· \.,_',, ld ] 1 ,1: ·' · '•; ,• .ltht I :\1 r J I \I~. -· • r l\:•~dl: . I ··v·.t-!t' l. Ir.! 1 -l ... t. Ft·\ 1 ·• r :\lt· :-ll.\ 1L I'll (j,t! -·· H.tX lJIJtllt• ;-.:o;t.lfl:l.ll•t• (,tl.o;),fl,dtd ,-~.do:1 • · II • ~II I f, '· .\,. ];,:,I. II' I·: •·I 1 I ,. :q. 1 'I •. Tht It J .... ,[• I •. tthl· . ]; .. b \\.IJ. t•· • . '\•I ~ ... l I t h:!t : .. i.l I; II v \\ ,.J ,:,. :-;u ...... t x s,~ :. ·r ,, 1 ''·!..t.J J, ..... \\!11·11 I t 1 ~:1.1\ tll\'n tl11 ,:\l.t.d• ,, .... j h .td () Sclwm>ctadians- (Con tin Ut>d from P:• gf' 1 l ing- resuJt,· IPal'h ftgurt• inC'lude~ 4 i.-hnd,; fnr 30 ·minut•·'· l 1 late t·~, d t· .... ,·,J :\1t•ltth j .. J.n d tu 1:--h.nd f .. r (,f April t .. •:tt•l ,,ro ....... Jii-!\ a!td · !• l :. '.... ~~,,.,., \\·,·atta·r .. ,.I t.l ...... ,..: } ::!, J,l\ It\' 7 \• o ! 1 '•': :.1 I It I tl '] r: ~~: }::~:.\)' ;:·~ ::. :·~: ~ ~~:::,: :::· ~-~:~ :~~- f.•tr 7'•1 :.:.·-; ~..''l .. : ,:,•, ·r, ., . ~~.. :~ , ... , ··l .: 1 · ····;.: • ·r ,, · Cut inuslr rnongh, if tlu· f1...:un•;..; are analyzed hr s•·parate i~lanus. aln1ost (•XaPti).· t h(\ satllf' ·JH·t ct•ut- a~t:·:-. l•:t•\oiil .:.: iolt'h ltf tl.t• fiJllr points chcrkNL The roun t Hhows quit<' <'lt·arly that for e1e1) pe<le,.,tt ian wl:\ u~,·~ the saf..ty i~l:tncl.~ for thf' purpo'P for which t hf'y v. f'r<> constructed, three mor!\ pt><if'st ri:> 11!> u~P t hf\m for what mi).!ht he called the Eliza- r-ros>ing--thP-irP mPthod of gPtting f1uru Olll\ .... i<.h· tJ[ tStatt.• :-ltt·ll ·to tht· otll<'t'. Thf' 1 r sepms to be !itt If' dutdJt t} .. ~~ h'·pJ•in,: f! t•!n-·-·tJd1-fo- !sla:nd-to-i.·l:>nd-to-rurb i;; 0ll' f'afest \\ay 11f ~,·t·1n..: ;~~·11·.- .. untit r JlrP:-.(·nt drrum,tnnr<·o. Hut it ha\ ~f'VPI'al long·run disrrdvantages. In the first plac~ it ronrentrntt>R pedes- trians nt the· natTO\\'<''t ·hc,ttle-neck points where they cause the max- Imum delay to passing motorists, or else miss their throHeys because they cannot pierce a moving stream of car~. And much worse thE' present system, or lack of system, definitely educates the pt'destrian to jaywalk. Most cities have found that the only way to control paywalking- is to have plainly marked rn,so;-walks protected by lir:hts whid1 give the pedest1·ian a sporting rham·e to gain .the othPr side of thP Rtrt>Pt . .Schenectady prt'fPrs to ,.;ub,.;t itute safety-island hopping combined with the maximum \ft·eedom of the streets\ for wandel'ing foot-paf'R- engers who tour diagonally at every known angle. That so many of them survive uncrippled· is a tribute to the self-control of the drivers who crawl along while Schenecta- dians dodge. The Gazette Press PRINTERS • ............... ~·-~-·~.J'o'··-·····~···-··--·-· •••. - ............... . re•'e~-,t{.;:u~'d Good Housek.eeping ~ • Bureau ...... o 4 .......... <J-V' o,,..., ... c \' .• Fro-Joy Ice Ori>am bas been awarded the \Good Housekeep- Ing\ seal of appiovaJ, car~ awarded for purity, cleanlbiess · nnd quality of lngredilents. ~~92 At Your Dealer's Store or PHONE 4-3121 U·NION C:QL:LECE BOOiK STO:RE Room '5' Administration BuildinCJ COLLEGE- Seal Jewelry Pennants 1 Pillows, Banners and Plaques Die Stamped Stationery :FRATERNITY- ; ... ~ ' i' i. .. ,. . ! d ,: Banners and Plaques O,n Display New Remington Portahle Typewriter Desk -for that better taste a11Jdjragrant aroma Turkish tobacco leaf is so tiny that each of these bales contains from 70 to 80 thousand leaves. But there's another and greater difference-Turkish is the most spicy .and aromatic tobacco in the world. We have Chesterfield buyers in all the tobacco matkets ofTurkey and Greece, including Xanthi, Cavalla, Smyrna and Samsoun. And when you blend and cross- blend aromatic Turkish tobacco with mild ripe home-grown to- baccos as we do in Chesterfield -you have a milder cigarette, a better-tasting cigarette. . . . . ........... ' . . . .. .... ' ... \ .. \. . ..... ~ ................ \ .................. ·' ...... ·. -·····-·~· .... ·~·- .. ,·;- ... ; ... . I : . '* :· . I THE~ workec man, c< AngeJe long ar

..... .;, THE MIGHTY BRUINS ~ Even facial muscles are worked overtime vvhe!l diminutive. Jack Zipper- man1 coxsWain of t~e Universi~ of California (los Angdes) varsity etght, puts h1s mates through a lon~ and strenuous practice run. WIDE WORLD PHOTO GOING PLACES ,. Clarence Lind- strom, stellar fresno State Co liege (Ca I if.) broad jumper, is caught by the action cam- era in the middle of a record-break- ing ledp. ACME PHOTO ACE SHARPSHOOTER: • Shirley Frazer, representing the University of Washington (Seattle), captured the 1935 women's i nte reo II e g i ate championships bY. shooting 48 out of 50 bull's-eyes, BREEDING RABBITS IN TEST TUBES Prof. G re~C?tY Pincus 1 of Har- · vard, takes mo- tion pictures of h.is successful process for the artificial hatc:h. ing of rabbits' eggs •

SECTION HNa·tiona·l Collegiate News in Picture and Pa-r,agraph\ , THE MIGHTY BRUINS » Even facial muscles are worked overtime when diminutive Jack Zipper- man, coxswain of the University of California (Los AngeJes) varsity eight, puts ,his mates through a long and strenuous practice run. WIDE WORI..D PHOTO U. S, TRADEMARK SERIAl.. NUMBER 313412 GOING PLACES ,. Clarence Lind- strom, stellar Fresno State College (Calif.) broad jumper, is caught by the action cam- ere~ in the middle of a record-break- ing leap. ACME PHOTO ACE SHARPSHOOTER f) Shirley Frazer, representing the University of Washington (Seattle), captured the 1935 women's intercollegiate championships bY. shooting 48 out of 50 buli's-eyes. BREEDING ·RABBITS IN TESI' TUBES Prof. Gres9ry Pincus, of Har- vard, takes mo. tion pictures of his successful process for the artificial h.ltch- ing of rabbits' eggs.

West ·ern ·G 91 fer s t·h rea t e ~ Superiority of Easterners INTERCOLLEGIATE goiRng circles throughout the country are becoming hot debating societies these days over the one major question~ that has captured and is holding the atten- tion of the vdfsity locker-room orators: Resolved, that the East will lose its supremacy in the 39th annual intercollegiate golf championships to be played at the Congressional Country Club, Washington D. C., June 24 to 29. · lntercoilegia~e golf was once exclusively an Eastern affair. Of recent years 1 however, in- vaders from· the mtddle west, south, and southwest have aU but taken over the show .. There- sponsibility of making an impressive showing for the East rests almost squarely on the shoulders of an untested Yale team. Yale has won more team (nineteen) and individual (.thirteen) champion- ships than any other school in the country. . YALE will be strong, as it always is. Excellent coaching and plenty of material make Yale a strong dark-horse contender, but what did last year's Yale eastern intercollegiate champions do against the boys from other sectors? Charley Yates of Georgia Tech the nation's sixth ranking amateur, won the individual title. Michigan's well-balanced team took the team championship .out of the East for the Rrst time in history., nosing out Yale by three strokes. Yates is back and Michigan is back with practically·the same team .. Last year only Law Weatherwax, of the three Yale qual iAers, got past the Rrst round of the individual play, and he lost to Yates in the second round. Only 13 golfers from Eastern schools landed among the 32 qualiAers. Only one, W. Y. (Willie) Dedr of Brown, reached the third round Charley Kocsis of Michigan won the qualify- ing mddl with d brilliant 147. Notre Dame set a new ~ecord by qualifying Ave men ·for the match play. THE picture for 1935 can not fairly be painted any brighter for the East, which has won all but one team title and all but six individual championships. Michigan is as. strong as ever. 9:orsia T ec;h, the third place team, looks stronger them last year. Notre Dame 1s fully as strong as 1ts fourth place 1934 team was. Okl.ahoma can also make trouble if everyone is. clicking. Texas, Rollins, and Colgate will all make their strongest bids for the team title this }'ear. · The individual Aeld is the most brilliant in the history of the tournament, and certainly the most colorful. More than half of last year's qualiAers are back this year, and among them: CHARLEY YATES, Georgia Tech, defending champion, thrice a participant in the national amateur, twice Georgia state champion, low amateur in last year's Master's tournament, protege of Bobby Jones from Atlanta's famed East Lake course, at 21 one of the country's greatest amateurs. Walter Emery of Oklahoma, 1933 champion who was put out in the second round last year. Ed White of Texas, last year's runner-up, individual champion of the Southwest conference which Texas dominates, and the man who has given Spec Goldman, Jack Westland, and Gus Mbreland all they could handle in various tournaments. Charley Kocsis of Michigan, last year's medalist and semi-Analist, Big Ten individual champion, Michigan state amateur champion. Johnny Banks of Notre Dame, former Western junior champion, medalist in the 1933 intercollegiate, quarter-Finalist last year. Winfield Dayl Jr., of Notre Dame, who carried Yates to the 18th hole and forced him to play par golf to win in his Arst and hard- est match in last year's tournament, Chicago district junior champion, quarter-Analist in the national amateur in 1934. WILLIE DEAR of Brown, former national interscholastic champion, who dropped a 36-hole match to Yates last year, 2 and 1. Capt. Joe Lynch of Georgetown, _president of the association and winner of last year's driving contest. One of his drives traveled 340 yards. Freddie Haas, Jr., of Louisiana State· University, Western i_unior and Southern amateur champion. John Brown and Robert Servis of Rollins, Maine and fqrmer Ohio state amateur champions, respectively. Capt. Warren Alton, Dick Stewart, and Otto Nord of Col- gate, the latter a quali~er last year. Stewart was a Analist in the New York state junior tournament. Cliff Perry of Duke, the southern conference champion. No mention of those former giants, Harvard, Princeton, and Dartmouth? They just don't it this year. Left Ch<Jrlie Koc- sis, Michi!l,an solfer dnd Big len chdmpion, is one of the favorites to win this year's tourney. KEYSTONE. PHOTO John B. Brown, Maine ama- teur champion, will compete for Rollins College. Right PRESIDENT ,. Jo- seph P. Lynch 1 , of Georgetown uni- versity, heads the Inter-Co lleg i ate Golf Association. SEEKS TO REGAIN MLE ,. Walter Emery, 1933 champion, will rep- r£S~nt the University of Oklahoma. · - THE DEFENDiNG Charles Yates, of; G present holder of, the titl'e whiCh he will ~he 1935 Intercollegiate · .n.om\''\'' in Washington. LANE BRos. . I ~I

. I ~I GOLF HELEN HICKS Former JJ• s. Women!s Gotf.·Chanlplon Read below what lead- ing sports champions say about Camels With the preference of star athletes overwhelmingly for one cigarette, that cigarette has to be exception· ally mild! Its name is-Camel. Herers what an Olympic champion diver, H.arQld (\Dutch\)Smith, says about Camels: \I've found a great deal of pleasure in Camels. They never in· terfere with my wind.\ Rip Collins, who lined out 35 home runs for the world-champion St. Louis Cardinals last sea.Son, says: \Here's the best prooflknow that CaJD.els are mild: I can smoke them steadily, and they never get my wind.\ From the ranks of the squash starS comes this experience. RowlanJ Duft-on,. of the New York A. C., says: .. I've found- that Camels are so mild I can smoke all I want, and they never upset my nerv~ or get my wind. That's what I caii real mildness!\ Dick Shelton, world-dtampion steer dogger, and those two bri1- liant campaigners in the golfing wars, Denny Shute and Helen Hicks, have come to the same conclusion -\Camels do not get my wind.\ How this mildness is important to you tool Camel smokers can smoke more- and enjoy smoking more. You get more sat.isfaction, knowing that sports champions have found Camels so mild that they never jan- gle their ~erveS or get theit wind. \CANDID CAMERA\ close-up of Harold (\Dutch\) Smith, Olym- pic Fancy High-Diving Cham· pion. enjoying a Camel. He has smoked Camels for nine yeats -smoked Camels even ;before he took up diving. He says, \I'd walk a mile fora cameL\ Among ·his teammates on the American Olympic squad who are also Camel fans are: Leo Sexton, Helene Madison. jim Bausch, Bill Miller, Josephine McKim, and Georgia Col~. YOUR OWN PHYSICAL CONDITION -your wind ... your energy ... tbe good bealtb of your nerves -is important to you too. So remember this: Camels are so mild you can smoke all you want. Athletes say Camels never get tbeir wind' or nerves. COSTLIER TOBACCOS! • Camels are made from :finer, ~ EXPENSIVE TOBACCOS- Turkish Lid , Domestic-than any other popular brand. ·(Si&n•d>R.J.lleynoldsTobaccoCo.,Whtaton.Salem.N.C.

TEAM OF BEAUTIES » Ohio State's Coach Francis Schmidt tells d new one to the five prettiest freshmen at the Buckeye school. Left to right: Jean Sim_pson, Dorothy Kremer, Cornelia l::vans, Genevieve Emmons, dnd Jane Doh- erty. . . .,L, MAIDS OF POL 1 .. No they re . JUSt members of the University of Pen':'.~yl- · vanta (Philadelphia) Mask and Wig Club d]l dressed up for the~r curr~nt production, Drums of Fortissimo. ACME PHOTO Right HER FIRST C~r<H • Alice Ayer, oflv\t. Holy- oke Colle~e. (SouthHdd- 'ley, Mass.); snare!i d big one at the opening of the trout sedsorn. WIDE WORLD F!H-QTO ... ___ ._ ........ ;:1 ~ ~~~~~l ~ ., . .,.,.... Left ANO ORO Philson, versity ld.), s bar to s ord of hve-eigr. the hig 1 Right TOR FETE WdS C classmat Oueen Collegf' Mo.) .•. ~ commen

t F I son, skt of , hig 1 R U ., ch ssmat Left TYPICAL BUSINESS WOMAN .. Betty Bastanchu!:Y, is honored by Dean R .. L McClung as Southern California's most representative commerce student. AciVIE PHOTO A HIGH FLY is batted out by Chase of Columbia in the fast diamond battle with the College of the City of New York nine. Riqht WRESTLING INSTRUC- TION FOR CO-EDS is offered as one of the newest courses in the Iowa State Teachers Col- lege (Cedar Falls) cur- riculum. WIDE WORLD PHOTO .4 ... en , POPULARITY PLUS » Sadie Jane .Fletcher, Delta Gamma at the University of Missouri (Columbia), is so popular that she was chosen twice in one week as the reigning beauty on her campus. ACME PHOTO

COPY CHASER ., Gertrude Carey '' co- editor of The DePaulta, 'tearbook publication at DePaul Univer- sity (Chicago). GOLF TO THE FORE ., University of Iowa (Iowa City) women take the~r first practice lesson from Coach Kennett, Iowa· s famed golf mentor. J ,b; Right HIGH FLYER» Jqmes Ashcraft is about to do a back dislocation on the rinss in the Cortland Normal School (N. Y.) gymna- sium. R!Jht BEAUTY .. Hor- tense Callahan has twi.ce been honored as the Louisiana Tech (Ruston) campus queen. NOBEL WINNERS HONORED , Dr. G. R .. Minot, Harvard, Dr. H. C. Urey, Cdlumbia, Dr. W. F. Murphy, Harvard, and Dr. G. H. Whipple, University of Rochester, are feted at a. testimonial dinner in New York KEYSTONE PHOTo ; ' ~I J1 0 .p tc

at a. PHOTO ~I \ l ,_ -!....... :·- ......... -~>.--·- ..,.., •,- -- ~. ~ ~ JUST LIKE THEIR BROTHER OARSMEN, members of: the Wellesley Collese (Mass.) cr.ew do their daily practice stints on the machines when its too cold for them to l:dke to th~ open water. INTERNATIONAL PHOTO : .,_.' CRAO< QUARTER-MILER » David McOueen IS ex- pected to bolster tne Purdue Unive_rsity (Bioomington,.lnd ) squad s chonces of chdmpion- ships in this season's outdoor meets. Left STAR DANSEUSE .. Betty Noble, senior at Occidental College (Los Angeles), di- rected and danced the prin- cip.:~l role in a ballet fedtured during the dnnual college slee club concert. Below YOU WOULDN*T THINK SO, but these \quints\ are all members of the Duquesne University (Pi~burg~) foot- ball tee~m. Thear outu\g was Rdrt of their initiation into Gdmm~ Pt1i fraternity. Printed by Alco Gravure Inc., Chicago, m. 5391..3-32

IN THE fall of 1928 1 lewis Ayres, who was no more nor less than a good banjo player from San Diego(Cal.) high, began eating his first free meals as a rushee of Kappa S!_s.ma fraternity at the Uni-· versit' of Arizona. I hat year a hatf-mi.llion- . dollar future was being rnade for him in Germany where a tragic-faced Te~:~ton 1 Erich Remarquej had finished writing a grim war tale titled \AI . Ouiet on the Western Front/' a book that also took care of Mr. Remarque for the rest of his life. Had the 20-year-old freshman, who still prefers not to wear a tie, known of this fourth dimen- sional relationship, he could have avoided three years of very tattered exist~nce. This knowledge not given him, Freshman Ayres proceeded humbly to enlarge on his reputation as a fast banjo strummer. He joined the Kappa Sigs 1 the college band and glee dub almost simultaneously 1 and took an interest Jn astronomy. Now, in Hollywood, he finds it difficult to convince colleagues that he has really read Chaucer's long-winded \Treatise on Astro- labe\ and that he looks through his telescope at something more than passing night mail planes. NEAR the end of his first college year Lew joined a roving dance band. Playing in a Holly\ . Born in Minneapolis 27 years ago, Lewis Frederick Ayres had. a brief tenure as a b~jo•playing scholar at the University of A'riz(n)a, where he ple4ged Kappa Sig and gazed at stars at night, a hobby which he still purslles (left). Lew had a grim-lippe4 face of' sohe.r mold that made hisjreshman smile (above l an event, 4n · · astronomy, tzot the banjo, an 4ppropriate absorption. wood hotel, h~ first saw movie st~rs frolickiRg stylishly. He thereupon sold $500 worth of musical instruments and hired an agent to .get him picture work. Ejected fmm two rooming houses for rer:~tal arrears, he was .:it the point of. going home to San Diego for regular meals when the agent proved worthy of his hire. Lew played' in \Sophomore\; then was the juvenile. in Garbo's \T~e Kiss,\ but Garbo 1 not Ayres, was the sen.sa- tion. He was tested, like every youth in Holly- Y\~?d for ~he .~iches~ plum ~f the year,_ the l.ead m All OUiet. T rymg o~;Jt m the hospital scene that few people w. ho saw the picture forget, he wept genuine tears ·from sheer despondency. He won the role.. So vividlY. real were his Five months of make-believe in the. trenches near :Los Angeles that he still occasionally talks like a member of the Reichswehr. HE WAS slumping, after had roles when Phil Stons,. another author, so·ld \State Fair\ to Fox, and Lew acted in it with Wil'l Rogers. His · last picture was Fox's \Lottery Lover.\ Divorced from Lola Lane, he is now married to Ginger Rogers, a girl whose slim .lines on the screen have helped make the Ayres household, with its telescope, a concentration of stardom. DID YOUR CAMPUS produce a personality who is now prominent in the radio, motion picture, stage, art, business, or political world? If you want to see that personality the subject of a \Spotlighttr\ thumbnail sketch, write The Spotligbter, Collegiate Digest, P. 0. Box 47'1., Madison, Wis. One dollar will be paid for each acceptable picture sub- mitted, in addition to one dollar for acceptable authentic anecdotes about. the famed of today. · NOW YOU SEE 'IT; NOW YOU DON'l » The~e .invjsible murals are on exhibition at the Franklin Institute (Phil a. delphia). The photograph at the left . was ta~en u_nder ordinar-y lig~t 1 while tha~ at the nght was made w1th ultr<l- vlolet light. . · IF A FACE MEANS ANYTHlNG Shotputter A. ltfan, of Cambridge University (England), has broken tile international records for this{~eld event. _ ,· ACME PHOTO SHE'S THE TOP » K~thryn E. Caswell is the new president of the Colby College (Waterville, Me.) Student Government' Association. . Resumes Graduate Courses In Science V<:>l. LVIII., No. 59 Business Man~ Of Drama Fes1 Talks of The~ Frederick Calvin Has l Theatre Intimately : Twenty-five Year; Publicized Barryn Worked On Hampden'~ Tour Across Contin By RALPH COHEI' A new typewriter adds to of Silliman Hall these d.a seated behind it is a m •brings his many years' ex. in the theatre to the · managership of the Mohaw~ Festival-Frederick Calvin . Incessantly puffing awa pipe, he is working to fill t of the outdoor theatre that built on the campus this .and which will be directed and Mrs. Charles Coburn, v brought him into the busiiJ of the stage. \Theatrical producers to independent men, nothing like the Belascos, Moroscos, hams and Hopkins of only t ago.\ Mr. Calvin said in ~ view. ''What they are ]; interested in is selling th rights to their .productions, road, the object of the old ers, is a .blank 'book to ther !mow little of the old tra1 the theatre, and care less. picture rights are their rnai but if you send a first rate bon on the road, the rece be larger than any taken i palmiest days of the theab Movies Saved Broad1 \The motion picture has salvation of Broadway,\ tinued, \due to the fact movie interests will pay round rum for an interesti production th.at can be . In fact, quite a lot of th{ Broadway hits,-to menti• ing Zero\ and \Three M Horse\ are backed up b: picture capital. \As far as the actor is c -here's what happens toe producer and his immedia ates sit dOWn to cast theil paper, talting for the mos ant parts people they hav• seen act on Broadway. 1 parts they fill through 1 a~,;o.;ncies. But thE' thrntri \'.un't recomm~nrt nnyonP has seen him act in a I production It's a vicim and the only way to get a:• fr um it iJ to han;.; arounrt c.nd tiOmetl:ly, pmPhow, so you may bP ablP to brPak stag£1 Hlllld Tu ('ont ''ThP nrtor rPreive.< sam :-gen~ent in bucking the di ing forces in trying to t llt a·'rl:ril prominence in r bv H.<> fart that is the sur ;,.· mov:e contract. One of crr:-neous impression!'! o tf:at to get a motion pictur should 'go Holly,vood.' N• really break in that .. w must go via Broadway. After some experience a~ and then managing the r of the OMurns and F1 Bushman and Beverly B Calvin became the adva1 and publicity m.an fo1 Hampden's first transc• t~ur. He also occupied positi-on for John Ba \Hamlet\ co-mpany. ThE perience Barymore h~d stage, it was a very s!lhs according to Mr. Calvm, · matinee in the Boston. OpE Lhey counted 6,500 pa1d a Mr. Calvin als·o worked late William Hod!ge, a P 0 l star, very much like W in his appeal, managed 1 bons on a lecture tour, : publicity for the four t:av of the United States ShiPP Last winter he was ~ II the public relations deJ:!~ the Columbia Broadcastn and expects to return t the summer season. As business manag~r Belasco·Curran enterprlo Angeles and San Fran C'alvin has gained an knowledge of Ho!lywool stars. Presenti':lg currc way successes; the thea~ chain were the .show-VI (Continued on l?a!

........... Union Resumes Graduate Courses In Science ----·----- • • ttttStS ------------ Student Traffic Survey Finds Lax Enforcement --~--'-\~-o---~~--------. ~~--~~-:=-~~~~~~~~~===~~ UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N . Y., FRIDAY, MAY 17, 1935 PRICE FIVE CENTS LVIII., No. 59 Mana_ger Students Find La~k--~-~ E~-f~r~~~~~-tFi~ 1 ~~~ Ch;s-e; :p::eside-nt 1 U~ion To Offer Graduate D F St al n:• .J S h t d. T .e.e.• D . Of Umon A. S.C. E. Body ra_ rna e IV .~.:~.znuers c enec a y ra,,zc rzve C _ I S _. F. ld lk ~ f Theatre Michael E. Fiore was elected ourses n Clence Ie · ~ 0 · · Editor's Note: Tllis is the \in '1;;,-hour' parking areas. If the president of the Union College ___ t!th•d of a series of three ar- parking Iimits were enforced, park- chapter of the American Society of ticles setting forth some of the ing space would: be available for Civil Engineers at its meeting Calvin Has Known findings of the loca;l traffic 1 double the num:ber fo cars u~ing it Tuesday night. Othe1· officers of t I f . t I F group of the automobile safety I at the present time.\ the chapter elected at the same President Fox Announces Resumption Next Year Of Graduate Studies in Mathematics, Science Division; Few lVlen to Be Admitted ea re n Ima e y or project conducted this spring It was decided to make a careful 'time were Albert Stevenson, vice- Twenty-five Years by the members of Social Stu- survey of certain sample areas be- president; Hugo Bergman, secret~ dies 10, Methods and Problems. fore the traffic drive began, with a· ary; James Marotta, treasurer. The group consists of Arlington view to ·discovering wha.t differ- Fiore, who has been on the Dean's E. Baxter '37, Jolm R. Mills '37, ences, if any, the promised enforce- .li~t consistently sinC'e entering col- and Raymond J. Zierak '37. ment would bring about. It is ob- lege, was recently elected to the Barrymore On Hampden's First Across Continent What really happens in a park- vious that the following figures do :;enior board of the.student council. ing drive? An opportunity to an- not pre.sent a complete piC'ture of He is a member of the Alpha Phi swer this question was offered last I the situation bef-ore and aftet· the Delta fraternity and a resident of ·month by the announcement that a commencement of the drive, but Schenectady, -and is now playinc: rigid enforcement of traffic reg- they are indicative of general C'on- second base on the varsity baseball ulations would begin in the down- ditions. The two areas selected for team, Following a three month study of the problem of gt·ad- uate work in the small college, a program has been adopted whereby UnioH College will resume graduate studies in Sep- tember, it was announced by President Dixon Ryan Fox. For --------------·~next •ar only the division of Surgeon to Speak fo Phi Beta Kappa mathematics and science will offer such graduate research. By RALPH COHEN new typewriter adds to the din Hall these days, and behind it is a man who his many years' experience theatre to the business agership of the Mohawk Drama Calvin. ceseantly puffing away at a town district of Schenectady on C'hecking were Jay street between Stevenson, past treasurer of the Monday, April 15. This decision Franldin and State streets, and A. s. c. E., is a member of Psi Up- was apparently the result of the Lafayette street between Terrace silon and .a resident of BI oaklyn. report of the Mayor's Committee on and State streets, in the belief that Sports editor of T,hc Concordiensi:; Traffic Regulation dated January they were fair samples of places and catcher on the baseball team, 21, 19&5. In that report the Com- where violations were likely to oc- he was one of the seven juniors to mittee stated that \a check of park· cur and to attract attention. On l>e tapped for the TeiTace Council. ing in the central business district each of four days, the cars in these indicates that about 20 per eent of areas were checked by license Bergman plays right wing on the the cars parked in 'No Parki-ng' numbcrs three separate times at. varsity hoclrey team and first at- areas or for from 1 hour to all day (Continued on Page 4l tack with the lacrosse team. He is Dr. Elting to Address Upper Hudson Group Tomorrow At President Fox's Home President Fox made it clear that only two to three graduate students seeking to qualify for the degree of master of science will be admitted to any field within the mathematics and science division which includes biology, chemistry, geology, mathe- matics, psychology and physics. a member of Delta Phi and a resi- dent of New York City. The provisions for graduate work at Union College will offer splendid he is working to fill the seats outdoor theatre that will be on the campus this summer which will be directed by Mr. Mrs. Charles Coburn, who first him into the business side stage. producers today are men, nothing at all the Belasccs, Moroscos, Dilling- and Hcpkins of only ten years \ Mr. Calvin said in an inter- J .. C. Thomas \Sang Down'~ to Audience MUSIC WITH EXAMS The Memorial Chapel will be open to students on Wednesdays and Fridays a:t 5 o'clock during the examination period, Dr. Tidmarsh will play the organ, or a short concert on the new Capeha1 t gramaphone. Marotta, also a member of Alpha Phi Delta, lives in Scotia. He ha;; won his numerals on the freshman football team and has played vars- ity football. opportunities for the \apprentice- Dr. Arthur W. Elting of Albany, scholar\ type of student, declared Dr. Fox in the formal statement announcing the graduate studies: one of America's leading surgeons, will speak on \Modern Trends in Medical Science·· at the Schenec- tady meeting of the Upper Hudson \Graduate studies at Union Col- lege are no innovation. When sus- pended theree years ago, as an ap- A:;sociation of Phi Beta Kappa, to- propriate precaution in time of fin- morrow night at 8 o'clock in the ancial famine, they had behind ''What they are primarily in is selling the movie to their productions, and the Noted Baritone Proves Claim To Superb Voice But Program is Poor Mr. Warren C. Taylor, associate profcs~or of Civil Engineering, is faculty ad,·iser of the group. ----0---- Illuminate Campus Wisconsin Chemist At Commencement To Address Ao C. So them two decades of honorable President's House at Union College. achievement. They are resumed Dr. Elting, who hold,; degreeB from Yale, Juhns Hopkin,;, and St. Lawrence universities, is chief sur- geon of the Albany Hospital and head of the department of surgery at the Albany Medical College. A lieuknant colonel in the medical corps of the U. S. Army, he saw se1·vice in France in 1918. now not merel-y by force of prece- dent but because of the conviction that a college like Union can offer a certain type of graduate instruc- tion with special advantages. the object of the old produc- By JOHN C. DAVIS is a -blank book to them. They little of the old tradition of theatre, and care less. Motion ure rights are their main object, if you send a first rate produc- on the road, the receipts will than any taken in in the days of the theatre. Schenectady received the last of the Civic Music Association Con- Contacts With Teachers certs last night in the person of the Fl dl' ht t M k C 11 · baritone, John Charles Thomas. 1 00 Ig S 0 l a e 0 ege Frankly, this concert is a typical 1 : Luminous Sea of Colored Daniels Will Discuss Kinetics Of Photochemical Reactions; Society to Elect Officers \It would be ab:;urd for a small college to pretend that it can offer the same kind of opportunities in this respect as a great university with its huge library, its elaborate equipment and, particularly, its numerous and distinguished special- ized scholars attending wholly or largely to this level of instruction. Its entrance or persistence in this field must be justified by demon- strating that it has certain oppor- tunities, worthy of alternative con- sideration, which the great univer- sity does not offer. example of the case of the little • • , G . girl, who when she was good was I BUildmg:s, a1 dens The upper Hudson As::;o<:iation of the national honorary scholastic society in the Capitol district, holds three meetings a year, one in Troy, Albany and Schenectady. All men living in the ·district and who an~ members of Phi Beta Kappa are eligible for membershi-p. Dr. James L. Meader, president of Russell Sage College, is head of t-he asso- ciation. Movies Saved Broadway very- very good, and when she was . ---.- . . bad she was horrid. Retummg alumm Will see a dlf- motion picture has been the of Broadway,\ he con- \due to the fact thrat the interests will pay a good, rum for an interesting stage that can be screened. fact. quite a lot of the current hits,-to mention. \Ceil- The good ·points of Thomas must ferent, almost lu~inous, cam~;ms at be admitted, since he is pro.bably Commencement time. It Will be one of the foremo&t American brilliantly and colorfully lighted, baritones. However, his choice was with white and tinted lights gleam- bad. With a few exceptions, the ing in the arches of the various program was an excellent examph' buildings, or shining from the ivy ;,f playing down to. the audience. that covers the walls. Dr. Farrington Daniels. professor of chemistry at the University of Wisconsin and the 1935 Baker non- resident lecturer at Cornell, will be the speaker at the 182nd meeting of the Eastern New York section of the American Chemical Society to- night at 8 o'clock in the Butterfield Memorial laboratory. Dr. Daniels will speak on the kinetics of photo- cht>mical reactions. Anyone who is interested is invited to attend. Zero\ and \Three Men on a are backed up by motion capital. far as the actor is concerned ere's what happens today. Th.e ducer and his immediate assoet- sit down to cast their play on talting for the most import- parts people they have already act on Broadway. The other they fill through theatrical But the thrntrirnl agPnt recomm~nct nnyonP unlP~s h<' seen him act in a Broadway It's a vicious circle, the only way to get away fro~n m it i;J to hun;.; arounct and wn1t, sometl:ly, prnPhow, ~omPwhere mav he ablE' to brPak in. st;g£1 Hmld To Contract Tl!P ,..rtor rereiVE'-< some encour- in bucking the disheai ~en­ forces in trying to achle\'t· 1 i:nl prominence in New York tl.<> fart that is the sure road to uov:e contract. One of the mo~t ·:-neous impression!'! a:broad ts to get a motion picture job, one 'go Holly,vood.' No one -can break in that way. You st go via Broadway.\ some experience as an actor, d then managing the road tours the Cdburns and Francis X. and Beverly Baine, Mr. became the advance agent d publicity man for Walter first transcontinental He also occupied the sam,e for John Barrymore s co-mpany. The last ex- Barymore had on the it was a very satisfying one, to Mr. Calvin, for at one in the Boston Opera House, ey counted 6.500 paid adm.isslom•. Calvin als-o worked With the William Hod!ge, a popular road ar, very much like Will Rog~.rs his appeal, managed Floyd Gib- on a lecture tour, and w:r:ote for the four travel servtces the United States Shipping Board. winter he was a member of public relations department of Columbia Broadcasting System, expects to return there aft!lr summer season. As business manag~r f<!r the elasco~Curran enterprise~ m Los ngeles and San Francisc-o, ¥r• has gained an extensive nowledge of Hollywood and the Presenting current ~road­ successes; the theat;es m the were the .show-wmdow for (Continued on Page 4) We liked the first half of the con- The Library, the central figure in ~ert very much. The one Brahms the lighting s_cheme, will have_ its song was quietly sung. peacetul, walls. bathed m . moss-green light and subtlety beautiful. We also and Its dome m golden amber, enjoyed the two number of Marx. while the. window~ wi!l be lighted \Gebet\ and \Der Ton.\ It is re- from Wlthm by w!:ute llg~t. . markable to find a singer whose Hanna Hall Will be Jl!ummated diction is as irreproachable as that with reddish-amber, and the arches of Thomas. The concert should of North !1-nd S~ut~ Colo71nades and have finished with the Recitalive the Physics bmldmg Will be fur- J.nd Aria from \Herodiade.\ After nished with white light!'!. that. the intervals were few in A golden al!lbe: or pale_ moon- '.'hich we could 1 »ally enjoy such light effect Will light thl' pillar~ of little songs as \TI is a Lad:,c,\ Ulc C.lcmo:!al Cha!Jd, an;! th:' i'Hir' 3nd \When 1 thmk. uvun t-he :\laic! and :c.11 \\'Ill al·o glow With light ens.\ I Amber bulbs will b.e used in t.he There is one thing an art i.-t of an he:; of thE' Gymna~mm and whJtP Thomas' calibre should not do, and 1 lights are to be used on the Civil that is to spoil hh; prog1•1m by smg-. l!:ngin~eung bui!ding, the Hiol?gy ing numbers fit mainly fu1 the \'RL.:- building, Dailt'Y Hall, th~ Elr>rtrH·nl deville stage, and John C hall'''': Engin~•:: i~g building. thr> C'hPmi\ Thomas is no vaudt•villP a1-ti~t. It t:'y bll!lctmg,. the Idol. and the se<'ms a ,;hame that artil:lts should Payne. Memonal gat~way. consider Schenectady l:lo cultuwlly. To fit lht' 1 u\t1c ~c~tm;.: of Jack· barren that they mud whistle and. ~on',; G:trclcn,;, oil hmp.: on unpP£>1- Y•Iwn to make themoelves appn:>ci- ed cedar standards Will be used. a ted. This type _o( lighting ha1 k\ b?ck tu On the whole, the concert cannot' tht' fuundmg of the cullegc m the be called good, nor can it be called I 1790's. . . bad. such numbers a3 the encore I Dr .. A. J. Paler~o. mstructor m to the first group, the \Song to the 1 electncal e~gmeenng Is m c,hnrge Evening Star\ from Tannhauser: of the II~htmg. Mr. Jooep~ I. ollnk, were beautiful, but Thomas sank,: an electncal contractor. w_1!1 !~stall almost immediately to a very Judi- 1 and dismantle . the elect~tc hghts. crous level with the peculiar huck- I Competent asststants Will handle ster business. , the oil lamps in the Gardens. ·0-- --- Geology Group State Meeting Attends in Utica P1 ogress in the study and under- standing of chemical reactions is being made through a study of energy relationships. Photochem- ical reactions offer a favorable A delegation of two sophomores means of studying the~e chemical and four juniors in the Union geo- kinetlcs, and a knowledge of the logy de pat tment, accompanied by quantum yield and type of absorp- Professor Edward S. C. Smith and uon spectrum gives add,•d help. :-,· r l , k \V T tt d 0 Dr. lJamels WJil d1scu,; pnnuple~ · 1 ~ ';·P< r>rw oppan. n <>n e an.U spuctllc tdaltun::. lil the l>IU-~ tl.e an:1ua: Illrdin,; of th•· :\\c·v. blem. x ork State Geological Association I'.eceiving his _bach~'loi's and ·at Li·tica, ! • .iay 10 anu 11. The undct- mast<•r's degrees m science from the Unive 1 s 1 ty of Minneso<a. lJr. ,;radu:lle' attem!:ng werE' AJ\·in Van Dd.nieb wa\' \-\\'Uidcd a l't;. D. by \'alkenbut;.;, flenjar.:in \\'ibon. iiC<I vard. I·'< llt>wing lhl> h .. taU>.: 1 •t Hube1 t :-;ul th and \\ 111iam l'u> kel .t \\:orcc,;tc·r Poly-t•·d:nie Institu!t' I <>f tile c!a::.s of 1\l3li and Gutd\n .md In 1919-20, .he W!'.< !ltattoned at <he i•'JXeJ :-;Jlr•·gen Labu 1 atu 1 y. Tt:o: nton a11d Ri<·hard \'w;burgh nf ,_·:n~c l:J~U. Dr. Danids has be<'ll I' :he ci-.lso uf 1!37. .\'It h t:u~ t•:1tVPrs!t v nf \Vi~consil'. .. _ . . but in ud<ltt!on luu; bt)en a vt::;lting _ A1t.l·1.· f_PPltlJ? ~;I~cutl ph~nnn1Pn:l_ 11~ :ectut·er at stanford. the VIC'Inlty ot l.llca and the fr me us An infot·mal dinner at the Cornet I pothOlPs in the Little Valley locale House. 121'2 Union stre.?t, will pre-~ that ~\ere tor~:cd :-\hen the _a;:eat . ede the meeting, which is also held ~nltPs over flo\,rd mto the 1:gwn 'or the purJ,Jose. of elt>ding officers. It'~'-' ~roup ll't t:J nt·d to Utlc'l l• It day Dr. Egbert K. Bacon, of Union's n1ght \\here a lnrgc .. banque_t. ~nd chemi\try field, is pi esent secretary dance w.ts held fm· the 125 VJSitmg of the group. delegate~. Finalists for Goodrich~ Duane Debate Are Chosen Duane Featherstonhaugh '36, ~lechanical Engineers Develop New Soap Film for Stress Experi1n.ents Richard C. Snyder '37 and Charles thony J. Palermo, instructor in elec- Honikel '38 all of Schenectady and trical engineering. Ralph Cohen '37 of Elizabeth, N. J., At the formal meeting Professor 0. D. von Engeln of Cornell, toast- ma.stet·, called on Ptofes~;or Smith of Uniun who is a: past president of the organization, for a few ren1a1-ks. An il\ushated talk was given on the paleo:wic rocks in the Mohawk Valley as well as a showing of motion pictures of last year's meet- ing. ------()----- \The able, mature and experi- enced college teacher is usually a man of scholarly interests and properly devotes a part of his time to definite scholarly enterprises, thus advancing his own power and contribution as well as those of his college. Two or three young bach- elors working with him for a year in his study or his laboratory will acquire a training a,; intimate and p1·actical a .. that of a mediPvnl ap- !'lt'nti<l' in hi:' m.lct.•:',: workO'hop or studio. Sp1•cial OpportunitiPs \\\.ith a \'ubordinat<> project of his own in whirh undPr personal g-uidan!'<> !''lC'h l!'arns thE' primary t!'chniqne of inve~tigation. and -broadened by a few advanced cour'\~ in which hr> <>nro\JntPrs othPr tenrhing pPI·sonalitiPs and <'ompetes with the be~t undergrad- uate~. the apprPnticf'·:>cholar 1 ounds out a preparation which under care- ful test may well entitle him to the master's degree . \All this is different from the training he would get in the organ- ized routine of a great graduate schooi, but it may be of equal value. To conserve it;; benefits the college must rigidly limit the number of graduate students and confine its graduate offering to fields in which its circumstances seem especially favorable. It is obvious, too, that it must always remember that its pro- vision for apprentice-scholars must not obscure fundamental obliga- tions to undergraduates.\ After months of research to ~i~d soap films for analogy apparat1 m the mechanical engineering labora- tories, Union College research work- ers have developed a new s~ap formula that will produce a f1lm lasting for almost 24 hours. The soap is made of triethanola- were chosen at the eliminations mine and either oleic or stearic yesterday to participate in the acid, and after the soap is made it· finals of the Goodrich-Dmne extern- is dissolved in a solution of glycl'r- poraneous prize debate, which will ine using distilled water. One part be held on June 7. 1936 Spring Meeting Of Education Society Here All graduate work is under the administration of a committee con- sisting of J)r. Edward Ellery, chair- man, and Dean Charles F. F. Garis, and professors Ernst J. Berg, Peter I. Wold, Harold A. Larrabee, and George H. Danton. The analogy apparatus is used to find the torsional stress in bars sub- jected to twisting, or bars t:hat J;Iave . other than circular cross-sect10ns. The soap film is spread o.n the ~art to be studied and from 1ts act10ns the necessary Information is tal{en. triethanolamine and two parts of Featherstonhaugh and Snyder oleic acid are used. The two ingred- will defend the affirmative side of ients are heated together in an the general question: \Resolved evaporating dish for about 10 min- that the United States should adopt utes until the excess amine is gone. the British broadcasting system,\ It Is very important in this stage while Cohen and Honikel will take of the process that there be no ex- the negative. One hour before the cess of oleic or stearic acid. debate, some specific aspect of the If stearic add is used in the general question will be chosen, to formula instead of oleic acid, it be debated upon by the contestants. must be melted down ,alone. The Each man will be given nine min- glycerine solution into which the utes for his presentation and five soap is dissolved is a 50 per cent minutes more for refutation. The Middle Atlantic section of the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education at its meet- ing at Princeton University arrang- ed to hold its spring meeting in 1936 at Union College, it was announced today by President Dixon Ryan Fox. At the meeting next spring representatives from the leading engineering schools of New York, New Jersey and ,Pennsylvania will attend. CALENDAR Tonight 8:00-American Chemical So- ciety Meeting, Chemistry Laboratory. Dr. Farri-ngton Daniels, speaker, on \The Kinetics of Photochemical Reactions.'' Tomorrow 2:0D--Varsity lacrosse, Union vs. C. C. N.Y. The soaps formerly used pro- duced a film which lasted no ~ore than 10 to 15 minutes, too bnef a space for prolon.ged research. work. Experiments were made wtt~ all ~orts of compounds, from ordmary ~ ommercial soaps to special formu- fae d'eveloped in researc_!'t, but .the final results were denved flom work with chemicals by Dr. An- solution. The prizes of $30 and $20, are The work in the development of awarded to the two best speakers. Professor Mortimer F. Sayre, of the soap will be published in the They were established by J•ames A. the Engineering Pivision, repre- June issue of Mec)lanical Engineer- Goodrich '79, an.d Dr. Alexander sente(,! Union College at the Prince- 8:00-Meeting of Upper Hudson Association -of Phi Beta Kappa at President's House. ~londay through Saturday, May 25, examinations ing. Duane'78. ' ton meeting -during the weekend.

.•, Two THE CONOORDJiENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 17, 1935 ~irnsis COLUMN tions for a short time. IIi the other observecl· 1~ a!'ea there was no enforcement even during the \drive and a very slig·ht, short-·lived re- duction in violations was noticed. The re- b====;;;.;::;;;;;;;;;;=========;;;;;;=======-• AROUND THE WORLD By RICHARD SNYDER \A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ FoUNDED 1877 duction in number of violations in both areas TlJ.is thing had to have a nose in the paper.) So; Dr. Ligon, The Soviet Union, apparently was probably as much influenced by the pub- name, we we1·e told, so we gave you're an author. There are others vexed that the God-less ftve-year it the obvious one. We'd like like you here. (To the devils) .. plan has not obliberated religion, licity give11 the \drive\ as it WaS by the to sub-title it The Thumbed Bring in Bill Shakespeare. He MEt-lBER ~sCidated @'ollegiatt tjpl'ess ~ 1934 <ll'.olt;;i;;t~~Jliioe$1 1935.,. k d 1 1 has now issued a new tax plan · actual increased .enforcement. Nose. wrote about ca es an· a e, a so * * * puffed and reckless li!bertines. which is designed to force churches MAOISOll WISCONSlH Sole and Bxclu~ive Nation?-! Advertising ncpre- sentative, Natio11ul A <I vertbmg s~rv!re,, Inc., :1 West 42nd St.. N. Y. c., 400. No. J.\1-Iclugau .Ave., Chicago, Illinois, Chicago-Wrtgley Bldg., Boston, Mass. It seems fair to conclude that any effort in· As you may remember, although· That's why he's here. <Enter Shake- out of existence. The original de- the dl 'recti'on of stricter enforcement does we make it a point never to expect speate, disguised as Francis Bacon. cree against houses of worship in too much, we left several people last During the scene Bill changes his some good, but that little of permanent value week in various ·positions of vary- disguise and re-appears as Prof. 1932 had as its goal in the removal ing interest. To 'be precise, Aimee Herrick.) Mr .. Shakespeare, I'd li'ke of all religious institutions by the is accomplished without a sustained and con- Semple MacPherson and Dr. Ligon you to meet Dr. Ligon. year 193!. The Communists them- The official newspaper of the students of l.!nion College. Published Tuesdays and Fnd~ys throughout the college year, except durmg Christmas and spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five c?nts a co:py; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere m ·the Umted States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Senior Board Van Vechten Trumbull. ........ Editor-in-Chief Delta Phi House-4-06·15 William H. Fitzgerald ....... Business Manager Delta Upsilon House-~·7922. . John D. Anderson ............ Managmg Ed1tor Psi Upsilon Hou:;e-4-8710 . Albert H. Stevenson .............. Sports Ed1tor Psi Upsilon House--4-8710 . Robert c. North ................ ·:News Edttor Delta Upsilon House-4-IU22 Wallace T. Foote ............... Feature Editor Alpha Delta Phi House-4-6729 Junior Board ASSOCIATE EDITORS Milton Bedell Richard Passenger Ralph Cohen Richard Snyder Fenton Gage Norman Stewart J. Bundgus R. Doig W. Dean Carlton Ga:rrison Sophomore Board Assistant Editors H. Enzer H. Hartmann R. Ferguson M. Muroff C. Honikel C. Trahman Issue Editor ................ Ralph Cohen ================~~~~-===== Friday, May 17, 1935 With this issue The Concordiensis sus- pends publication until June 8. _- _:: - ::____-~==-:::.:....-;:::; ADVANCED DEGREES For many years Union College has offered graduate degrees in Electrical Engineering, but all other graduate work has been con- fined to the Law and M.edical schools in Albany. Both these institutions are sepa- rate from Union in everything except admin- istration. Dr. Fox's announcement that all fields of the division of mathematics and science will be extended next year to accomodate a few advanced students comes as a surprise to many of us. We seldom think of Union as a place where one can spend more than four yeaxs (in good standing). We believe it is a good step which Dr. Fox has taken. The science division has the equipment and the personnel to keep ad- vanced students busy. And the presence of a few graduate students engaged in inde- pendent research and study should be stim- ulating to the professors and undergTaduates who come in contact with them. Happily this change will not be a sudden one. The college does not want to bite off more than it can successfully chew. Only a few candidates for master's degl'ees \\ill be accepted, and this aspect of the work of the college will be allowed to grow slowly accord- ing to its merits. CALLING THE ENFORCEMENT BLUFF The third article of the series on the study of the local traffic situation made by three students for their Automobile Safety pro- jects is printed in this issue of The Concordi- ensls. It concerns a question loaded with dynamite for all automobilists: what is the value of periodic \drives\ for the strict en- forcement of parking ordinances? The student investigators tallied the num- ber of parking violations in two typical down- town areas before and after the recent, wide- ly-publicized \drive and checked on the number of red tickets given in each case. The impm1:ial result::; of their ::;m·vey showed that sporadic, but by no means strict, enforcement in only one of the areas observ- ed apparently reduced the number of viola- tinuaJ.ly energetic campaign against all in- were just going to Hell. Dr. Ligon-How do you do. I selves are today very bitter against Scene-Hell. Things look quite seem to remember having heard of fractions of the traffic laws. Whether public a lot like a cruinibal village. There you before. the church because it stands funda· · · · S h t d '11 t h are several wicker huts, some bed- Shakespeare-Well, that's more mentally in opposition to ~he Soviet opm10n m C enec a Y Wl: suppor sue a 1'·zened, sa'\a!<e-lookin!< devils, and than I can say for you. v~- - doctrine. Thus because of prohibi- p olicy is an open question. It is also p1·ob- a number of fires with large pots· .Satan-(very abruptly) Phooey, d '1 th d I tive taxes, churches are one by OI\e lelnatl ·c \\hethet· or 110 t the poli'ce force 18 • over them. The ev1 s·, ga ere Dr. Ligon, phooey, why should v together in an. open space near the ·bother with you? Phooey!! ceasing to operate in -soviet Russia. physically able to pass out red tickets for center, are singing in negro-spirit- Dr. Ligon-Satan, you're showing Although Senator Byrne has been ual rhythm \That Goddam Dante the profanity reaction to an infer-· won over by white house forces to every violation. Done Us Wrong.\ Nothing hap- iority complex. Now, I'd suggest- the continuation of the NRA, a Celtainly the psychological eff.ect of .an an- pens. In fact, nothing happens for Satan-Shut up!!! Bring in the split in the ranlts of the Democratic so long that the devils themselves cook. I want to know what he's party may find the bill for length- nounced \drive\ is bad. It is equivalent to a begin to get restless. At last Satan g-ood for. <Enter the cook, with a ening the life ·of the National Re- mother saying, \Johnny this week I'm going enters fx,om a hut set a little apart· tuning fork. He prods Dr. Ligon's co very Act discarded before it can and slightly largex· than the others. two-point threshold.) be passed. President Roosevelt to spank you every time you get into the He is enormously fat and hides Cook-Why, I don't know. There will probably accept defeat on his Coo kie J'arl\ And Johnny thinks, \She's under his puffy cheeks and huge isn't really enough of him to roast. two-year extension plan, since the jowls the remnants of enormous He's been falling down too much Senate is at a deadlock, some favor- probably bluffing. Anyway, I'll lay low for a fm·ce of will and insatiate cruelty. while playing baseball. And I don't ing only nine months extension. However, il is apparent that he is think he'd stew very well. I think The Technocrats came out of week and then feast.\ a little tired and cynical. To tell there's just one thing we can do . hiding recently to have one of their the truth, The Devil is bored with with him. original number announce that the FAITHFUL FIDDLERS Prominent among the many effects used by the Mountebanks last week to create the rollicking, romantic atmosphere of Shakes- peare's \Twelfth Night\ was the music play- ed between the scenes and the accompani· ment of the songs. The playing of the string quartet was simple and unobtrusive; some- times sad, sometimes meny, it was always in keeping with the action on the stage. The fact that the quartet remained back- stage during the entire performance, never once appearing before the audience, is some- how symbolic of their work throughout the year. They have never pushed themselves forward, but always remained, figuratively, behind the scenes. Organized and trained on their own initia· tive, under the able leadership of Alan Stew- art, '35, first violinist, the four musicians who compose the string- quartet have stead- ily improved the quality of thier work. Their ability is especially notable when one con- siders the scarcity of good musicians on the campus. The quartet's modesty is only exceeded by its diligence. They have practiced regularly every Wednesday afternoon in Silliman Hall, and the firm, swinging music of Haydn and l\lozart has been a welcome respite from the clatter of typewriters in the offices upstairs. They have played at several Glee Club con- certs while the silver throats of the singers were resting between numbers. They have given two fine assembly progTams. All credit should be given to the four mem- bers of the quartet for their enterprise, modesty, and artistic ability. One can para- phrase Emerson to describe their purpose: not to eat, not for love, but only for playing. CIVILIZATION IN THE FACULT\Y Like many othe1· organizations, college faculties have their squabblings and bicker~ ings, their little feuds and jealousies. Par- ticularly is thi·s tendency shown in rivalries between departments. In a sense each de- partment, or field, must compete with other departments for funds and promotions from the administration, for popularity and talent from the students, and for publicity and prestige from the general public. Realizing that such competition exists in every college, we are very pleased to note increasing evidences of inter-departmental cooperation. In some instances this cooper- ation is a result of the new divisional organ- ization, and in others it is just a sign that the faculty is becoming civilized. A physics .student was needed to handle the instruments used in an advanced psy- chology course. No psychology student was qualified to do this. An inter-departmental confel'ence followed, and they decided to let one of the physics majors take that course in psychology and receive credit for his de- gree in physics I Cooperation beats competi- tion. Hell. Satan-What's that. United States was in the first stage Satan-(sitting down as if he Cook-Hash! (Dr. Ligon begins of Fascism and about to emerge were a punctured dirigible) Well, to struggle and kicks Satan in the into a second phase. what have we got for dinner? shins). Mussolini threatens to send a de- Devils-(stirring the cauldrons · 1Satan-P.op him into the pot!!!' stroyer to Santo Domingo to free from which cooking odors mingled (They pop him in upside down, but a consular agent of the Italian with the smell of sulphur, brim- being agile he wrig-gles around and government who is imprisoned stone, and Bil·d's Eye matches sticks his head over the edge. They there. What is more important arise). Puree of Liar, ·broiled Sab- put Aimee in, too, for seasoning.) however is the fact that the !tal- hath-Breaker, pot roast of Hypo- Dr. Ligon-:Satan, cruelty is an- ian press admits that Italy is bra- crite, Adulterer Salad with brim- other reaction to an inferiority zenly eyeing Ethiopia for outright stone dressing, and sliced Murderer complex. (A devil pokes him with annexation because \the small Afri- with hell-~ire! a fork.) Satan, what's your I Q? can republic cannot absorb the Satan--Same old stuff! But who (The devils pour fire-water and benefits of present day civilization.\ comes there? <It lurhs out t:hat brimstone around him. He drinks European nations who formerly nobody comes there. So Satan pro- the fire-water.) I can prove lby gave their silent sanction to the ceeds). Hell is so full of sinners Thorndike and Christ and Wood- movements of I! Duce are now now that we can hardly call our worth and Morgan that-(The alarmed because of a recent mani- souls our own and s·till when it's devils light the fire and bring- the festo which gave every indication meal time you guys C'an't catch a ·pot to a 'boil. Dr. Ligon punctures that Italy would stand for no out- thing! the .boil with a lancet he happens to side interference and did not intend (Aimee Semple MacPherson is have on him.) Satan, rats run to arbitrate. dragged in by the hair. SJJ.e in faster six hours after eating than turn drags Dr. Ligon by the hair). twelve. You've got to let .me go. A. S. P.·-I demand justice!!!!! I have truth and psychology on my Dr. Ligon--Hush, you are demon- side. Also a little religion. And slrating a reaction to an inferiority rats run faster six hours after-No, complex. Let r.1e handle this. that isn't what I wanted to say. 1 Satan --What m:4kes you think think you'll find me somewhat of you can handle this? a kindred spirit. I give hour Dr. Ligon--I know psychology. exams at seven a. m. <Satan, sud- I have read the Sermon on The denly interested, leans forward.) Mount. I graduated from Texas And I prove in my new book, pub- Christian. Also, rats run faster six lished by MacMillan, that-rats run hours after feeding than twelve. faster six hours aftering eating And I- than twelve, and-not only do I give Satan-Yes, yes. Well, come on. seven o'clock hour exams lbut day Handle it!! before yesterday I came to give <Enter a small devil who is the one without even any paper to have color of sour milk and calls him- it written .on. I have nystagmus- self Alfred. Nobody else bothers to no, I mean poor binocular vision- call him.) full of visceral tensions--'Illy viscera Satan-Well? are so tense you can play snare Alfred-Satan, this man has writ- drum tunes on my stomach. And I ten a book. <Taking out a copy of give seven o'clock hour exams- The Concordiensis.) I have proof! and- · Satan-(seizing the paper, which Satan-Release him, I abdicake. is Tuesday's issue) Ye, gods!!! Dr. Ligon, Hell is yours. Y-ou're right! (He hastily blows his F. H. II - -· II Concordiensis reporters remarked I!.=-==P;::;U;;;;;N=C=T;;;;;I;::;l;::;I;::;Q===;;;;!J !.~a;e,he was :ot~in: but a galley - - Which reminds us of another: Now that the chain letter has formally entered our dear walls through the machinations of the Chi Psi lads, let us here promulgate cur own. It has seemed to us that, in accordance with the sages, no chain is stronger than its weakest link; and when the links depend upon human cupidity, little you and me ain't never gonna ·be rich. Therefore we dedicate this to Faith, Hope and Charity. Our letter follows: This chain was started by Hans Lagerlieber Spritzwasser in an ef- fort to bring back Prosperity to him. Just wrap five-dollar bills in ~rov­ ct nment bc:nds and ~ot:nd t!ight to WlCh person on the 1.st five times. l'hen copy the list carefully, omit- ling your name (this i'> important.) Send this list to 50 of your friends and request that they do what you wrapped in government bonds to the persons on the list and then, in turn, forward copies to 50 of their friends. After the chain has been com- pleted, you will have the satisfac- tion of a deed well done, and every time you buy St. Joseph aspirin Guy Lombardo thanks you. Hans La:gerlieber Spritzwasser will have $;5,876,098,673,587.03 with which he will pay the bonus. HAVE THE FAITH OF YOUR FATHERS!!! List: Why is Lionel Barrymore like a frankfurter? Because he sli.ps easily into a strange role. • .. * From General Electric comes the repol't that 40 Union seniors ha:ve applied for posHions which pay money. It's love of Schenectady and the muddy Mohawk. • • * College has often been criticized for being the refuge of eccentricity. But it seems to us as we walk over the campus on these soft spring days that we wouldn't change this refuge-no matter what it be from ---for any other sort of a life. Anyc one o.f a different opinion is asked to ride tl::c subways in New York a-bout 6 p. m., or watch the scurry- ing multitudes walk up Erie Boule- vard at five in the afternoon, or stand in a ten-cent store for a few moments, or get up a few mornings at 3 a. m. and watch the farmers set up their wares in t:he market- place, or imagine .being a janitor or a bus-driver or a banana peddler for thirty years. Or look a:t the paunches and bald heads of well-fed doctors and lawyers. Ho hum, and I'll 'be up at ten in the morning. \' * * All lhe a;bove thanks to P. W. ---0·--- NOTES ON OUR CONTEMPORARIES Weeks Best Editorial MINDS AT WORK Union College has sta.1'1ted a move- ment which promises much f-or the institutions of learning in this country. This week a group of students and professors from Am- herst College is meeting a similar company from Union in a joint dis- cussion, spread over two days, on the subject of Liberty. Several papers prepared by undergraduates are to be readi to set brains and tongues in motion. After that there is to 'be the utmost freedom in treating the various aspects of the subject before the assembly. Last week Union students dis- cussec1 \The Economics of Public \Vorks\ with students at Columbia, and next month there is to be a meeting with ·union and Colgate taking up a philosophic subject. An atmospJJ.ere charged with dis- cussions of this char-acter will make more real that fraternity of edu- cated men that is usually mention- ed on Commencement Day. These young men are becoming qualified for membershtp in such a society. Some years ago an attempt was made to organize intellectual com- petition in team matches between high ranking students of Harvard and Yale, but the plan sounded too much like an adaption of the prin- ciples of football played with tongues instead of bodies. Perhaps Union has hit upon an effective way of vitalizing student life. Boston (Mass.) Daily Globe four ever known to entomologists, was discovered recently at Iowa State College tAmes): One-Man Relay A Univex·sity of Southern Cali- fornia CLos Angeles) sprinter was given four medals for running one race at the recent Long Beach re- lays. He was first runner in a fom·-man half-mile relay but when he came to the end of his lap found no team-made to gra'b the baton, so lle just kept on running and came in third. He was given all four medals. Praised With Faint Danms Sen. Huey P. Long held a 2-1 lead over the Rev. Ch;ules E. Coughlin and William Randolph Hearst in a recent \unpopular~ty contest\ at the University of Illinois (Urbana), Att: Skidmore, Sage, et aJ.. At the University of Arizona (Tuc- son) the Pan-Hellenic society ruled that first year women students can't date because they are not suf- ficiently mature. Hans Sprit.zwasser, Union Col- lege, Schenectady, N. Y. H. Spritzwasser, Concordiensis, Schenectady, N. Y. L'nion's Averag·e? CWckens? Hans L. Spritzwasser, Middlesex, Schenectady, N, Y. H. L. Spritzwasser, ETA PI House, Scenectady, N. Y. H. Lagerlieber Spritzwasser, Sehe- necta,dy, N. Y. ACT NOW! Send eight-five-dol- lar bills wmpped in government honds to each person on this list eight times within three davs. HELP BHING PROSPERITY BACK!!! \' \' .. The pun of the year: One of The University of Michingan (Ann Raising chickens in their rooms Arbor) students spend approximate- is the latest fad of students at Mar- ly $8;000 weekly in student frequent- shall College (Huntington, W. Va.) ·ed restaurants, taverns and stores Page S. P. C. A. on coffee, beer, liquor and other Approximately 5,000 frogs are drinks. use<;! annually for la;boratory work Le-ft-Wing Radicals at Ohio State University ( Colum- Left-handed students at the Kan- bus). And they cost 15 cents each. sas State Teachers College (Em- Poor Excuse poria) arc raising a fuss because A Trinity College (Hartford, the1·e are no left-handed chairs Conn.) p1·ofessor recently missed provided for them in the class his first class in nearly 30 years rooms. because he thought Washington's Iowa :wonder birthday was March 22, and took a A one-eyed bee, one of three or holiday. .Gris 'Dhe plays .Alexat meets went in tht aft ern to injl Willia; seore. tories Army, more the G prove< who , hits, I to gat four\\ look 1 good ·I Guy route ed up in ho: 6 hits Grisw ing tl: but sc brand are u~ ace. '( The men. when hits, ~ to pu plate. ning, on P~ safe ; and v single Steve fielde Bob l sec on and J when tore: Seme third, sisted going a sin secon fielde time Stanl cente run dou.bl throv to c fielde Tl Th1 homE Mike anct' walkt walk' Cad VI nice Gris> score the ( caug: flied Fo· up i Dutc free stole· cues. roled went and 1 base: reacJ three at fi SemE pi tal: and wall: othe: poke scor: agai ing ·I the the corn Tv sible in tl ed : doul to tl to t Stev The tryiJ fliec out. cam whe cam Geo a hi son, sing war seec Gris Loo ror, fam fem V\ ing, firs stei did! .\ it, -J .J

11 a ic e- is of es in a se th ps !l- a so in a a \ THE CONOORDJiENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 17, 1935 Three Nine Crushe.s Williams 17-6, li INTRAMURALs 11 Meets Hamilton Tomorrow Intramural Announcement Close Lacrosse Contest Is Anticipated The following is the final league Against C. C. No Y. Ten Here Tomorrow standing for the 1935 season. A tie w Softball in the Eastern League necessitated a play-off between Beta Theta Pi Golfers to Meet Colgate Coach Harkness Will Start f-jris\Wold Fans Ten, Yields but Six Hits as Garnet Batmen Blast Fom· Purple Hurlers for 13 and the Mirates which was won by Beta Theta Pi. After Losing to Purple 7-2 Same Lineup That Met The results of the following con- tests are umeported to the Direc- NORTHERN W tor's office. Unless reported by Sat- L Dropping their first match since 0 the first .Joss to Middlebury earlier Stevens Last Week Safe Blows; Will Play at Clinton urday noon (May 18th) the games Sigma Phi ....... · · .... · · · 8 will be stricken from the schedule, Chi Psi · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 4 4 in the season, the Union golf team · 5 suffered a second defeak at the The C. C. N. Y. lacrosse team, ~. 'I\he varsity .base.ba:ll team, which plays its first game away from Alexander Field tomorrCJIW when it meets Hamilton :College at Clinton, went on a 7-run scoring rampage in the second inning Wednesday afternoon and went on to add insult to injury in sinking a highly touted Willi!lims College nine by a 17-6 score. WiHiams, who had won vic- tories over Princeton, Yale and Army, was expected to provide more than enough opposition for the Garnet !ball tossers, ·but they proved no match for the Dutchmen who were able to collect 13 safe hits, coupled with 9 Purple errors to ga.rner 17 runs as they pounded four Williams pitchers. and made it look like a track meet instead of a · good ·ball game. no replay permitted, and both Plhi Sigma Delta ......... 3 Netme.n Sc.ore First Win· teams charged with a loss. Ross ..................... 3 April 26-Delta Phi-Phi Gamma Theta Delta Chi . . . . . . . . . . 2 5 hands ·Of a strong Williams College with a record very similar to that 6 team Wednesday, 7 to 2. Today they of Union's, will provide the oppo- will end thei-r seven game season by sition tomormw afternoon for the meeting the Colgate golfers on the Garnet stickmen on the Library L Mohawk links at 4:30. Field. The game which starts at 0 Berry of Williams turned in a 2:30 is expected to be a close one, 2 neat card this week in defeating for the teams are evenly matched 5 Ralph Thatcher. He went around in size and experience. Over Colgate Court Squad Delta. souTHERN May 2-Lambda Chi Alpha-Delta W A Phi. Delta Phi .. .. .. .. .. .. . . .. 8 fter a surpvising victory over May 13--Chi Psi-Emerson-Larson. Lambda Chi Alpha ..... · · 6 the Colgate net squad, the Union May 14-Theta Delta Chi-Emer- Alpha Phi Delta .......... 3 tennis team will attempt to improve son-Larson. Phi Gamma Delta . . . . . . . . 2 upon their 1934 record by taking May 14--Phi Sigma Delta-Delta Phi Sigma Kappa ........ 1 th . Phi. EASTERN 6 the Mohawk course in four above Thus far the St. Nicks have won 7 par to set the note for the following a single game out of the seven matches won by his mates. played, being taken into camp by e1r second victory this season May l~Chi Psi-Delta Chi. w when they play the Middlebury May l~Phi Gamma Delta-Phi Beta Theta Pi ............ 7 L Only one individual tilt was an- Stevens and Swarthmore, both of 2 nexed by the Dutchmen, Ken Brown whom defeated Union. The Dutch- 3 outplaying Freeman of Williams in men and the Beavers both lost 3 a good game, 2 and 1. He and these games by the same number of 6 Johnny Emans were the only Union points. team at Middlebury this afternoon. Sigma Delta Mirates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 May l~Sigma Chi-Alpha Phi Delta Psi Upsilon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 The Dutchmen will probably line The Mirates and Delta Upsilon Sigma Chi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 up as they have in their recent have withdrawn from the competi- Delta Chi ................ 1 matches with Captain Stroebel, tion and their remaining games are Austin Fox, Jack Moffet, Jerry, declared forfeited. 7 viotories in the best ball matches. They bested Freeman and Huston Will Use Same Lineup WESTERN Rosen, Joe Cohen, and Bernie Salad The league standings for games Playing the singles, and the same played inclusive of May 15th are: combines being used in the doubles. (Complete except for unreported w Phi Delta Theta .. ·. . . . . . . . 7 Delta Upsilon . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Kappa Sigma . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 L in a close contest, 1 up. Coach Bill Harkness will prob- 1 Return Match With Colgate ably start the same men who did Guy Griswold aJgain went the roUJte for the home team and chalk- ed up his fourth win of the season in holding the Purple invaders to 6 hits and issuing 5 bases on balls. Griswold was a •bit unsteady dur- ing the first three or four innings, but soon after settled &o'W11 to that brand of hurling that Union fans are used to seeing from the Garnet ace. Union Scores Seven Rrms Garnet Talres Four Singles Matches scores) NATIONAL All but one of the Union victories in the singles matches with the Maroon players were won in W straight sets, and George McGee, Beta Theta Pi . . . . . . . • . . . . 8 playing for Moffett who was Alpha Phi Delta . . . . . . . . . . 7 slightly ill, performed well, outlast- Psi Upsilon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 ing Davis to win 6-3, 4-6, 6-3. A. Emerson-Larson .......... 5 Wood of Colgate won the only Delta Chi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 singles for his team defeating Joe Chi Psi · · · · · · · · ........... 3 Cohen, 6-3, 3-6, 6-3. The summaries; Sigma Chi · · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Singles-Stroebel (U) defeated Sigma Phi · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 2 Wood, 6-3, 6-1; Fox (U) defeated Theta Delta Chi .......... 1 H 6 2, \3 M G (U) d f t d Mirates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 ague, - \r' ; c ee e ea e Davis, 6-3, 4-6, 6-3; A. Wood (C) de- feated Cohen, 6-3, 3-6, 6-3; Rosen (U) defeated Coombs, 6-3, 7-5; Salad (U) defeated Quackenbos, 6-3, 6-1. AMERICAN The downfall of the Williams men started in the second inning when the Dutchmen collected four hits, a wallt and four enemy errors to push seven markers across the plate. Jim Loomis opened the in- ning with a walk and got to second on Patterson's error. Brown was safe at first on a fielder's choice and went to third on Cadwallader's single which scored Loomis. AI Stevenson was safe at first on a fielder's choice which scored Brown. Bob Reed pushed a single through second which scored Cadwallader and Stevenson and went to third when Bryant's error allowed Clark to reach first base. Captain Ralph Semerad singled, putting Reed on third, Fiore was out at first unas- sisted, Clark scoring and Semerad going to second. Semerad scored a single by Griswold, who went to second on an error by the center fielder. Loomis, up for the second time in rthe inning, reached first on Stanley's error. Brown flied to center field and Loomis, who had run all the way to second, was doubled off first when Loranger's throw to Bryant was fast enough to catch the .fleet Garnet left fielder. Doubles-Wood-A. Wood (C) de- feated Moffet-Stroebel, 7-9, 6-3- 6-3; ·Fox-McGee (U) defeated Davis- Quackenbos, 4-6, 6-4, 6-2; Rosen- Cohen (U) defeated Coombs-Hague, 6-3, 6-2. w Laurenski Bros. . . . . . . . . . . 7 Phi Sigma Kappa . . . . . . . . 6 Phi Gamma Delta . . . . . . . . 4 Phi Sigma Delta . . . . . . . . . 4 Delta Phi ................ 3 Lambda Chi Alpha . . . . . . . 4 Delta Upsilon . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Theta Nu Epsilon . . . . . . . . 1 Phi Delta Theta .. .. .. .. .. 0 Three Runs in Fourth Inning Three more Garnet runs crosseclJ home plate in the fourth inning. Mike Fiore opened with a single and went to second when Griswold walked. Loomis fanned, but Brown walked to load the /bases. Dave CadwaHader come through with a nice single to bring in Fiore and Griswold. Stevenson singled to score Brown, ibut the p:i!tcher cut the center fielder's throw off and caught Cadwallad!er at third. Reed flied to rig1ht field .for the third out. Four more markers were challted up in the fi.fth inning when the Dutchmen collected one hit, one free ·pass, one hit .by pitcher, one stolen ·base and three enemy mis- cues. Semerad walked after Clark roled out to the first baseman. He went to second on Fiore's grounder and reached third when the third 'baseman erred to allow Fiore to reach first base. Griswold took three strikes and Loomis was safe at first on an error whi•ch allowed Semerad to score. Sucher, Williams pitcher, hit Brown to fill the 'bases, and Fiore came home when Cad- wallader was safe at first on an- olher Purple misplay. Stevenson poked a long single to center field scoring Loomis and Brown and again Cadwallader was caught try- ing to reach third when Sucher cut the fielder's throw short to catch the Garnet third sacker at the hot corner. . Stevenson Gets Third Hit Two hits and a walk were respon- sible f.or two more. Garnet ~arkers in the seventh. J1m Loom1s wal~­ ed and scored on Ernie Brown s double to left field. Brown went to third on Cadwallader's grounder to the short stop, and scored on Stevenson's third single of the day. The Union backstop was caught trying to steal secondi and R~ed flied to center field for . the .third out. The home team sco~Ing ~m~lly came to an end in the elgth mmng when the 17th run of the game came across for the Dutchmen. George Clark, who had as yet. to get a hit in four other starts thl~ sea- son, finally came throug?- With ~ . le Semerad drew his secon smrk .of the day and Mike Fiore';; ':~ond hit of the day scoredClark. ~ . wold fouled out to the catcher, rls . afe at first on an er- Loomls dw~r~wn and >Cadwallader ror, an t d the Dutchmen's of- fanned o en . drive for the day. fens;v~ s wasted no time in scor- Wilham h d across their ing, for 0eY th~s i~itial frame to first run ;n a one-run lead that s~ep' out t ~ time it takes to tell d1dn t las e run rally by the •t for the seven 1 ' (Continued on Page 4) .. : -;· l • ' \ .······ .. ······· ' .. ··· u 3 The Garnet may have a difficult so well against Stevens last week. 3 time today in scoring over the Col- Crabbe Thomas or Ken Tompkins, 5 gate squad, for last Saturday it was who alternated at goal, will start 8 by a bare one point that it defeated in the cage. Joe Agius and Captain L 1 1 2 Vandecars . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Theta Nu Epsilon . . . . . . . . 0 * .. * Softball Schedule 2 The play-off schedule for the 4 Championship follows: All games 3 will be played on Council Field at 6 6:45p.m. 7 May 20-Sigma Phi vs. Beta Theta 6 Pi (Milano). 8 May 20-Delta Phi vs. Phi Delta Theta (Rotunda). May 21-Sigma Phi vs. Delta Phi L (Burton). 0 May 21-Beta Theta Pi vs. Phi 1 Delta Theta (Rotunda). 2 May 22-Sigma Phi vs. Phi Delta 2 Theta (Milano). 2 May 22-Beta Theta Pi vs. Delta 3 Phi (Rynasko). 61 May 24-Beta Theta Pi vs. Phi 7 Delta Theta (Rotunda). 8 (Continued on Page 4) ··· .. ·.;:_ , on a • the Maroon. The lineup for the Col- Scotty McNab wm take the outside gate team will probably be Captain defense, and Dick Kennedy and Dick Stewart, Alton, Noyes, and Don Liffiton will play at the first Nord. Union may use the same line- and second defense posts. up as in the first match with Col- The midfield attack will be left gate, although Ken Brown, John to Russ Knox or Stan Mower, Hal Emans, Bill Jenkins, and Art Vandecar, and Jack Smith. Hugo Sherin may be used. Bergman and Ken MacMurray will The Williams summaries: Indi- play the home positions. vidual matches-Berry (W) defeat- ed Thatcher, 6 and 5; Schwab (W) A shifty and fast attack usually defeated Little, 5 and 3; Swan (W) features the playing of the New defeated Froelich, 1 up; Dodge (W) York team, and tomorrow's game defeated Langer, 6 and 5; Huston will probably be a swift one when <W> defeated Emans, 3 and 1; the Lavender ten starts to go. The Brown (U) defeated Freeman, 2 line will probably be Aperian as and 1. Best ball matches-Berry goalie, Ilowit and Ornstein at point and Schwab (W) defeated Thatcher and cover-point positions, Smolian and Little, 8 and 7; Swand and and Curran on the inside defense, Dodge (W) defeated Froelich and Les Rosen at center, Milt Feinman Langer, 1 up; Brown and Emans and Perry Kent at first and second (U) defeated Freeman and Huston attack and Roth and Bill Rosenthal 1 up. in the home positions. .... ·: .. _down to the corner to get so~~ tnore Chesterfiel.., ... ,'\'.~\' .... , '''''''''•'''''\'·~·oou.••••' ••• \ l I \ ;. ·i

Four THE CON · CORD~ENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 17, 1935 Traffic Survey- Fm:nHure ~ou~ht For \ Draper High Beats 1936 Austrian Olympic 'feam Varsity Baseball- ~ ;;; ~~::~~:~~~\~:: ~~:.:::::: 11 1 ':\ .,:~:.\ ;::,~~~ ;'!~~~· .;.~:; . ~l , :·~ ~ . 0 ~.' , ::: .. ~~~e~~.:a.:~.~:· ~P.:.: j Union Frosh, 2 to 1 P:: . ~:::d Ab:,\~ ':~.~:.~n .::\': : ,,,, 1 :;;,~,;~~d ,;~:~~ ~:.;.·.~:\ \' ~Jf1~~r:\;,\\ • • • . 1), ';, 'i• ;;,.. ~ , , 1 ,: 1 ,JI\.i!~_:-: · t !:.• 1 : t LJ rt~· J :l'ltl: >.tt 1 d·~~~I•dt~.'l.lt':-. tt1r t1H· c\lh · ~~L· ~·t · ,:tr •• • , • · l'nitJJt·,:; foni~t·t· <'oacht·~ of tho of a kad vdllrh th tt !'tuph- lnvadt · l ~ · ~_. • . J ... J •h, It'-d . 1 . · \' I 1 1~,., .. . ,~,~·· IL:ty llll\\ ' Ut' • lllollk a·t hit• '' IU!ltng ~{uns Scored tn Last,l'l\''·('oltll\lly ant! tlat'k tl'.llll has llol. , ht 1! ......... t•!llt'iiHIIled. (~ll!'\\Oit!, ·~·\\' ''· II· 1• . :- . : , , , 1:. ·I · ·. · ·· r n · l\ rou•'' :-> \lfh - l' 'f\\'O lnning·s: l ~ · nion · l.~t• · n rP t·t,tly app,dr~tetl ~ t 1 · • l'onch . \\.i'o \ .... ~. : 1 ~ \ . tid a~ ht· has Le(•n ttll !~ i~t: ;\';:~~·. 1 _ 11 , - ~ 1 . ' \ : .', ' 1 :. 1 · ,· • .:· . · :,l.·d ' \ : ... , 1'· .::: . Th · · •·n:l··~t' ,,. pun·l!a.'lll..: , om• · T 11 .. v· t 1 :., .. \ ~1.- l'llan Olyinplt ' 1r · al'l< ll'!ld . , . . ,. , u ·, w:rlk .. dhut h ~:tun lt ' \' and ~ut- '. 11-q•· · \ \' • •· l lo ·III :w iJ\'t· 1ww n<aple ftu · nltllll' f•>r a: tes tn - .~·tr!\ Fn .:d ':··1'111. ~lr. •:Iul't ·. llat·I••n . tl ~ich, tt11 · f!r~t tw\ l'w;p: c babnH • n ·L :--;.,,. :- - ~ , ;·,, , \' '· ~· 1 . th· :\lidd • !t• ~<·c·ti r · >n of :--.:o1lh (' ., 1- . _____ __ _ A. A l l'h:tlllll:•n o! th·· J..n~ dl,t- to t'u···· him, and t:hL•n two pas~l'd,:\!\\\'''• ,. ! !-~:·· Sinlllar· fnrnHIN't' ha,.; t-,,.,,n ' • ann· lllll · llin: t olllnlll<•·• · o~nd •••:tt·h . !Ja • l'i:-< b,· :-;tt-v .. n,.. .. n aJ.I<~ W e( l Stanle,.ll_:'' . ''.\l. II> I Tl f I b1· ball tt\llll ot' th 1'~3'' \ . Dl \ n 1 i · ' J J . I 11 ' 1.-. I' · · · · o \\•·f·y popHl :t · l' Wh1·11 U~t•d in Jl\('ln·s ~ lL' It. •~ IIllUil ~:;t• · t ' .e • - .. .J.llt'lh:ttJ ~· - l • J( 1 t ~·:-ilt. t · •! \ l·, ~al:--h:hbcin,g~ li · UndeJOn 1' . .- llt': · • ll, II '•i••llllit<~rll · ~· at.othPreoiiPI.:t'~. r.:w·hl \\lud. rncets Troy H1gh School to- ~lala · tn~~n t··a::,, .-:u !t-d f.,r \It • IJll:t · 1 thitttl>:tH' wiH•n Stevens und H -a p-, :-;u•lw1·. :' 11 '' ·\ I I \\Ill \\' Jl · bp fur 1\l,ht·d Wit-11 H ' Ill< HI ow aft,erno<Jil, pUII l' d a su · r- ,\pnl ~' tu IH •·;·a re t b· ,\ u.,t Han : :.;ood bot II grounded out l-0 Gris.' JluiJit. \ II .. \ t · \ • t:! l . l : . . : :~ ~~ :,. lwd ' _ \i . \11 nwHr• ·~.~ nnd · . piJ . . , . !>!be T~.;, •.; day on A!exande1· Fit>ld alh · l t•:•· .. for tilt• t't>:dn;. Olyn 1p ic ; wold , and · J.oran · :t• · t· took thrPe .\lo-.lltt·lo~·. ~I> .. . , \ I II l d ·' k wlln it h~·!t.l a tough DmJll'l' High ,. · ,n •·· ··h•i ul I r r 1'I3 ' · t H tlin · 1 k · ! 1ui.tl, · ,; . ,; ~I · t · l\\\ , c ll'~t ( · lt rawer~. nnt · ror, u. : l'!\ l' · · · l\'\o' .l ~ ~' · t ~ t · <. .. o · o ..t · t.• · · . -;t ll H ' :-i and v.;a 1 ! ' kc :J . Uu e to t.he \\ ' tl k\ln...: . . . . 1 · o1 111 11 1 t:••H - t; ,; • 1 k 1 t · 1 ninr to a ~-1 scort>. I '- 1 It\ · 1 · ',' , ' ·' 1.\ll.l )(h·) rat.:. ;l (l!1t' ~H t~, v:.:-'~· 1 l~rtlC'P, (••tlt• ,.,f :\tr!t•l'i· (': l'..; ll''tdin~~ &.•<'11C' 1. . . ·r_t~n n ........... 11111 :1111 :!lx ·17 J Un t ·a,· ' ti l'! . t~ t !.:..t ,l l:.~~ · k \ \ , 1 ~ ~~Llll a · llt · l d·:-->li, ·ll all. l' lloln~l : ~ll ' ll:-o · .t\•·~t·at tlt•alofCI ' l'dit n1 · ust go to (l · ,lh· g t: t1.uk ~ · n ~o~ t' ft;\. · t-·c · un'ty: Puq,J,.:.Sta~Ps.fi{u!tl{ully ·t .1,\\••-l•.t:--~ lt.t- Ur ~ \\\ll ,, ut a · d t ·. ••nt · ~· t . IJ, · Jit · ... r t. · · · n, \\t '· :: .· 1 1d :<t·ln Jd t· • . ,f ;h, furnitut•· :1 · t·t· Elrn:.- 1 John :->o n who sl:u : teti · his cNa('lu ·:-: H ;:h lt>allt ' ll\'l :t · hlt-tt'' '\'· tl T} , ,. Nn1v :-=t·: rfblan Pt.l<>f a S('At·i · ng 1 1 , h · t · tt' · 1 1 ' :\~ , ·· ' 11 1 · 1 · ... ~~·\ . ,,... . - ' 'ad ·Jt'tl ll, · kt -t:--. \\o~ u'h ... t·J \•·,~ Ill tt. t· \ ·a·d. tb:t: : l · l · ·tht· ('orn · ptro ::h· r :-. •1t'* f,11·~t ~atlll\ of tht> year for t-he yt·ar- Laf a\'t' ttt ~ . ('\'ol·lt>hl' and lat•·r ;d ll':llll th;.{t \\.iHi a·m ~ c .. uhl !->hO\\' \\ ti;:~',',~·r.'·' '' 1 · ' . ''' ,. ·/,' , ' ,, .. · : .~ · ,, · ~: .' , 1 1 1 ;,.;'; ,1. 1 '.:\u Patkllt~· .llt'd bt·l\\ t ' •li (··.:q.,: lll \ t· 1!. ~~:~~ollt' \\1.:-ihl's tn !'-ot't' tlll':l:t' l!nh =-- and thl' fin.;t gan1e of his en- lruio.n \\.ht •Jt · , Jii:-.. \ \·i nnin t · ' cotubitHl*I<'HHlt·intht· t-hird inning\\. · hen they.ti.ri\'''\ll. 1: LutHn : :-~. 1. t;;.tJ\\lt, 1 atH.l ~l~tlL' ~ ll t.-'LL ... . • ' l hl · ld·JIIL · \\Ill t · t ·ll t f,,l $ 1 .-,;, J•L•r ' ! l · l·t·: a::> a pitche1·. He \\'as conYC'rt~ tiun ~ a · ltraltt·ti atlt·ntror~ fnr lil'an\· '' n ~n nag-('d to ~eot 'tl four tin1P:4 on , l~lt·d . 1. _ c ·!at-k .I. ~;1\it!:--, I: Jl.tllt ·: . \• · .tl. :md 1u1 J>a · tt ut' thb >'•·•· t ~o>IJ.I , . , . j l'lltt• · a J>ilche1 · a short while ago 1 1 · 1 · · · I fo il !' hi-t-: two Pl'l'on~ and · a Vdlll{ - \ \ · 1 · ~ 1 · -- ·1<' . 1 : ,.. ,,. ,.\' '\'· 1. Ill t } l t • f I I .-..t l ,. ~ : ll . t • . t I ' t .... t . I I • :-- i: ll t • arup.y cuntn Ill t· :: ' t' ,,b:---t'l \ 'a t lnll :-- ''t t hl· :.tayul';, !'t>llllllllt•c llldltalt · t;c. t} ,a t t~ : t.• )) l ' IC..'l'llt ; t~l ' t•! l'\tf l\!li · r· \ . , . ,. l.;it 11.'11:- j;..; t \ t • ll\lt{t· I t : tl!\' '. i :.: ::t' l ' t ::: l r. :..: LI JH'l \..l \:~t llf ;dl l'l!. I· : .!l\t··l. :ltltl ll.~tl lf l i. L' · Jtlt·~t·IJ . t .. :di, \.,1~\ t·· \\t \ lt' :-;t:l<.:tly t · 111olt~..·d . 111an~ lll •d • than l\\ll .' L' tLL· I•lt'.·l'! lt nurnht •: <•f ,·:tl~ cuulJ be ~ tccun~~~~!:t·t' d . TLt t''X \ l, ·t ~·f!ccb t>f thl' • t\.i-i\' l' <t · l , . II · <•: t ·. (.'\ [t> tkll'I'Ill'illt' , t : ~pt•t'l:tily till t l.t b :, ~ ; ~ nf .sel<.'eteJ. :-;amples. It would \' l'lll. LUI\ en· I, that t lit• ,t, it'lt ·r t•nforeP- IIIl ' lll ur: Jay ·\'' n·d durin;..: t h\ fir·~J \\ el' k nf tht • eli 1\ '<' l ~:u i a d .. c·it!t•d •·f· fet · t upon the numhC'r t>f \·inlation~. anu did st·t frP<' a numht·l of pm·k- in~ Sf.t:ll'<'S which \\olli<l oth• • J \\ist · J ~a\·l' !}),., r ; i l !t-;.;<~ lly '\''~'U.I•H· t ! . On Lafayette :;trPl'l, on tilr otlwr hand, \\ ht.·rt· t · t~f,,,' t•tn•·n1 w:t..; ~~ · Jlp:u···ntly It •;; ,; rh.:id, tht:l 'f' wa~ llll actual in- c•·•·a>~· of \ ' i1>!at1nn~ t!uiin g th \ fit st day of the drive . This wa:< follow- ed 'by a n•duetion tluri ng tlw .-.·cutHl \h~ : k uf tl.c til i\ ' t', ,;u . Jwrl; ; q .. ' lo the gem•1·a! - publidty gi\'<'11 tu t·n- fol ct·nH·nt ~ffort:-\ e!:-'P\\ l : t·: t'. llu:- ing- the third Wl't·li of the dl'l\'t', howt • \ 'l' r, eonditi · n n\ • • II LHfavt'ltl' strt•et shO\I't•d a ,, nk111;..: n•s. :mhl- ancL' . to ,n~,l~P \\ \ hH'tl ··htainPd bc·- furl' till' Uri \'C · began. · yl'al :--. t wa:o t unn:~ · 11: ; :-.oJ o tH·n : · · . .. · . c • ~=~· r i fi···· h t . ~ l 1 :a l lt · l :-- .. z ;. \\ill ht· It'tlt ·t ·d ut~fuJnbht·d 1 L\~ <·oat'h Nel~ Nitchn1an, anti at t~nlon that n·tttnn-wid P attt•ntitnl · J. 1 att1 · 1 ~ ·· !1 (lpt·nf\d \-\'H h a S lll'hlt· and · f1 1 ,u!,!t · ,,J.,,, J. 1 q, 11 g;t·r t~~ 11. 111 1 :, 11 11 T la·l <' al<' H>UIIl,.. 111 both X<tlth t pitch<'<l a>< nicl' a ball ganw as one wa,; focU><f'd Ctn · hi~ ><pl!'ndid W(>rlc, ·.n·nt tCJ se( ' <>ntl on Stan.Jey·s hit and :'·t · \\'\ 1o . i .. , . , l ... l.tl•>.:• ,., F1\' ' -, 11 d ~ .. uth Co!IP;;t· whi.-h n 1 : 1 .-.. · b .. I could wi~h for . GrantPd he gave . . . i both 1 unm!J · ti advanced an extr·a J. ... . . u,;~ l ll'lllt- ·! unfu . 1 ·n - i,l:··d a - t 10;; :Jnd - ~1-30! thf' vi~itorR nine hits, but he had a lk '\v ast ]H '(':;H lt • J:I uf iht · ~l1d- , La , t.: when I:rown ju g gl<'u th~ · ball. _ l.t·fl ''\ 1 ,,.,,. ,. -1' - ~tiolt, Ill : \\'tJI.J:Ill J: 1 1 ,,. 1 )•·o~r T!l• ,·.,:!<·~·· l;a~ furnitur·el Sp a· rtan l ' <lll!'age that was haiti to ult• Atlanti l' !\t·ll• \ ' C'ttllq.;ia . tt· ,\ . (11· '· ~a! ,;i· h . and Stl'\ '( · !1::< bt>th ~tru'k 1 \· 1 . l>.tl!.-- 1 ;, ,,\\ ulol, :.. :'~·v\ c lc z'ut tLt .' ' ltn•lh .... whi 1 · }: n~:t\· l>C'!ht-at andlt\\ .. asonlvinlhel~tty. · u lt..·.ti t . .:'~~::ou~.<.ttion i. tl~(lp~ :· .t n~A:ot ~:· l:l,Ut, Lura: :gt r \\'a;-.;s:tfe at fir=--t on 1 1. i:!~~·h~~ 1 :': ~ucJ 11 . 1 , :..'. I•nlo~t, ~ 1 1 , . 1 , t.-d · J,~ -t 11 .;,. 11 t,..; . Tl : i~ funii t u r ·e inning-» that Dr ·ape' r could score on \'ll't:-pll':ld~llt u.f · tlu· Ar,:.t h-llr Cud\\aib . tit:r ·, lllblUe vvhid1 :.~llww- 1 \\' , . \' \ \~--: ,. 1 ··1•· 1 r :ri'\ \!•1: [. ... ; . ,, I . , un. - i't'' 11 f a ,.,in]-:1<' · lwei, tlr t'>'i<'l'. him. In the fourth frame with the Atl~lctrc L'nu · u . ~11 ·. Biu•··· w_ill 1'<'-l cd Patter .: on to sc ore . Hapgo o d ! pitl 1 h··r ~_,...,., .' 1 . 1 \' · • . . .-tlld · ) · t:d>l•· , ,-tlaidrt . b:tck ch; 1 .ir ~nd hn.~P'-' fii!Pd, he :;truck out Eats for mam aiJluad until thP c•mduH\Il of I wa · Iked Ca1>tain N'axrin::;' ;;ingle 1 11 \ · ••tt. - (\ 1 '\'\lr l, 6 111 , 1 ' 1111111 , 1 g ~ \ tl • '·I 'b ' t' •, t, · t . I 1 . 1 ' 1 :O.le\l 'l o~, \ Ill 1 lltltll<g; ~udccl' _ 1 l<ll'king ..!;air for $ 1~00 n. }·rar: if thf' tlli['(l · out reti · ring the side. He lC tex 11 , 11 ;lll .' · 1 ' 1 J:·•u:n.t f ; 1 11 · 1 brJUght home Stu.nll'y, Loru.nger 1 ~ t·nii.Ic~,; 1• 111 cn, :! 1 11:! iltllill c:,.. ; Fa · · l. l!t:.ttn · :-<o< and I•iil 11 w an· in d utled hnd tour ,.;trilwouts altog e ther and lllt'P s Wl ~lt : llll!l:e 1'-!t<•cy 0 ow ~core e! on He~·d·s er·1 : oz·, und Hap- :. i11 :: ; ·, ni n~- llle rent \\ 'Ill be· $lfo.OO per · year·. allowed only thr·ee base;; on - balls. the Berllll Olympic::;. I g-ood sco1ed on · .Mo~c·lcy ' s single. I ~l'il '? ' P '\'\' . \ · \.\ . . ~~~··h•·I' < l:~·\\ . '.'l All 1 unners left on base were I · 1 !'\ k '' 111 \ '\'\'\'lei ln, :-ill'\ ell ,\ r·cd uctwn of $:>.00 wi:l be cr cui t· F1·osh Score First o- - -- . u; I• twlis, 1 ; !\twher. 1; I 'u''\· '' · 11 · ·' b »tr.lndl'd when Nanns was caug . ht J', 1 ,.,.,c•l lo.tlb - -Ste, ·c- 11 ,\'\· ~. I'll un a 1 u..J lll contracts :;Ign c u ~ e- Tht• Gar·nct cubs were the fiz ·st to 1 t I ) t · t 1 h · d h G · ld I fure SejJtl ' lll • ber· 1st. All l'eoCIY<l- . th f ' n ramura s- Jyrn;:; ' 0 ma - w t 11' ' \1' <>n I'ISWO l'm . ;•i• · ·· .:·nlllh' IIY . tiun mu~t be t a ken up and co - n- scure. Tht:y :;tarted out Ill e u·st ~ · Cl.:t · off SC'merad's Plrow to tht> mning with a run, but :;cemed to phte and to· ·ed t C d\l 'a ll d t tral't\ sign,·d ' Ly July lst or they sp,·ncl all their offensive energy in t!1\n1 for th~s put 0 ou~ . a er a Will be au t · omaticall.y canceHed. .this frame, so that further scoring ( · Cont i nued from Page 3 .) Thr sixth and last Williams run MILK SO RICH A:--.:THO:\EY HOADLI.!:Y, was not forthcoming. Phil Duch· ~1 · ay 21 Sigma Phi \'~ . DeHa Phi ,arlll' home in the ;eventh when YOU CAN WHIP ComptiolleL ,;cherer, lead off man for the tMilunol . Grier. battin~ in Salsich';; place, Dutchmen, walked to open the in- May 27- Sigma Phi vs. Phi D elta \\'!liked and came home on Stevc·ns THE CREAM ning. He advanced to third on Theta 1Rotundal. tl'iple, the longest hit of the day. u 0 ~ew German Professor Presents Textbool\ Study ('alvin on Theatre- •Co ntinurd fi'Om P .tg-<' ll t:llrnt. F1·om tlH· J ·a nks of the Jllily- ,,.~ in th e >'!age productitm:> cam~ ,w ·i J ~ta r:-; a:- Billi•·. Burke, Leonon I\IJie Fn·dr ·it'k ~larc · h, .E:dwanl C. !{tobinson, Alice \\'hH< '. Vivit·nnr ~·· ~.d Jan ,• C11\ll ant! L l'~ li<' 1:-ln . ·w· ar·d. · · om· op..,ning nights were t.he mu~t colurful occasion;; on the eonst,\ }.1r . Calvin related. \The \'.hole movie colony would be 'there I hu.ve ~een anti met almost all gnJUuders by Don Buchanan and May 27 _ B e tu Theta Pi v:>. D e lta The game was a Joo,;ely playc>d Claude V\!iley that went for outs, Phi <Rynaskol. I af fa ir, much of it due to . the cold I and came home when Floyd Van wind which cut across the field . Ladd singled over :;econd base for !\f~; ~R St'tt 1 ~h 1 i \' ''· Phi Dr Ita 1 Thb vktul y allowed -the Dutchmen th e fi1st hit, bringing in the only lea 0 un a · to k('(•p alive its win : ning streak I Garnet score of the game . May 28 Si~ma Phi vs. Bet':1 Theta 1 which h _ a:; now reached · five suc- Fr ·o m then on until the eighth in- Pi < Burtunl. cessi\·e games and to ov e rage over ning- the game was a nip and tuck In the event of po:;tponement due 1 12 l'ltr.,; p<>r game nga · i n. s t some re-I 'affair with neither team being able to tnin, the Dir ec tor's office will· putcdly good team~. Gnswolti look-! tu scort:. Several times the Draper as:>ign a d~te for the play-off. 11 d ;.:nod after thP thit'd inning, gain-! nine had men on the bases, but a ing momentum as he went along double play or third out would off- 0 until he struck out th!-ee men in a set any possible scoring chance COLLEGl•; TRACI{ 1\l,EET ;·ow in the ninth to c·halk up his that the visitors had. In the eighth fourth win of the year. inning, however, the visitors got a The Sumrn!Ll·y run across to tie the score. Grosso The All Colege Interclass T1 :ac k l\ulon <17) All R H PO A I~ singled after Terry had grounded Meet being sponsored by the Spiked St;nwnul ('( 'aJlt. ), \f · · ·I 2 1 1 1 O H I d ·' Sh S ' t 'I b h I · ' t !'lore , 211 .. · .......... G 2 1 u out. c ,;toe secon anu came oe · oc1e y w1 · e · e u omorrow 1 ;n, 11 oltl, 1 , , .. . .. .. .. . 1 3 1 Produceti l:nder Strict Laboratory Control For Daily Service PHONE 4-3121 General Ice Cream Corp . Dr. George H. D:mton, newly ap- the notable stms as they walked pointed professor of German at Into 1h~ L:da~<'o . The strange t hi n~ Union Coi!C'ge who will l'f'plaC'P Pro- a · l.Jout ~t a ll I s • that you can · meet fei\~Or RobPrt w . Crowell on the 1 t hl·m I an· lu fa · Lc ant.! never 1 e- faculty next fall, offers un intcre~t-,c\~ 11 ~zt ' ~hl' .r, .. · :·- th:.t ~·\.'~ ,c-~ < J ll ing study of the fo: mat ion a nd de- t ht ~n H n. The trouble 1~ hei g . ht- velopment of a re:tdin. text in hi:; enPcl by the fact that many of t . nr hom . e when Enzer';; error on a wide afternoon a t 2 o'clock on Alexander ! l.nomi:<, 1 r n o r: i 1 throw from Buchanan allowt:d Fil'lti. ,\11 c· nt1 ant.,; are requested to ! ~J:;r·;·~~';\;·~ ' ~f;;~~~~;;:~~~~~~;;~1~ 1 ~;;;;;;~;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ l lldmey to reach first batie. 1 ep\1 t tn·onll'tly in onl~r tb:•t the 1 lr The Draper nine won the game in events may he mn t : ff as s.:h~dulec!. T H E . T U T 0 R I N G S C H 0 0 L tlw nmth when Eats hit a pop fly Any underg-rnd · uate attenc!in.; col- bf•tw•'t>n f'hoit and left field that lege i:; eli · g ible to enter the· n~eet. CHARLES R. PITTS, B. S., M.S . I w rn t fOI a single after Sebast had although n ; ..,n.b<.'l s uf the .mciety Pl'riJaratnr~· for Regents, Collegr Board, e1 · ght 1 , ..... 1 t!' . 1 t'gtl 1 .. \ E. I actors and uetr···~:-<t•~ ean be dt•C!tied- .tg, , I ( 1', t·n I et ' n ~X· · f · periment in a ~I .. :hvd . ' Cl:t-~\ 1 , 11 1J.!'Y ln<>IHIU! . '\'·lui m~tano..:e, Jl'~il- lished in the ~1onatshcftC' fur dcut-lll'!!P lJcllll e II anJ. . he I ,,at'll::.. schC'n L\nU•rricht. \ Anything got•~ on Hoi!~·\\) <J tl I ~~rounded out. He stole second and \\Ill not win the ribbon awar - d::; \\.'est Point, and Annapolis Examinations came home on Legere's single. Le- which are given to the first two I BUI,LETIN UPON REQUEST The ~ubjcct of the <'Xpl'l imPnt. I boult•vard. but Hollywood itself 1s Shafer's \Rheinsagen · in . its final i\ quiet, honll' i lke ~o1 t .'-'·~ t own . fotm as edited bv Profes,or Dan- 1 T h t·1<· ' \ not much artr\·rtr and ton, i~ being put>L~hcd by H £' nr)· :::~h 1 li: · ,, •:x•···pt - for tht• Cn · <'• · nnt Holt :1nd Comp an y a, \Stol'i e~ of' .: .. v.· and t: .• · Bro . wn l><'r ·. hy. l r. €.'11' gNe wa» caught trying to steal sec- place winnC'r 's in ea..: h of the four- 271 State Street Phones 4·3785, 2-6352aM om! a . nd Ha rri~<on flied to Charlie t e<'n rvr~lt ~· _'::~~~=~=;;;;;;=.~~=~~==========;;;;;;====~=====:;:;; McCarthy in center field for the - --- ---- .. -- - --- -- - ----- - - ·- third out. ThP Sununary th£' Rhine.\ · :.til · :co It:• ,.,, \\'lid par; . , ,., 111 Fl r,l!~- 1 In hi. ... :tt!I<<,· p 1 ,. . : 1 • - ~ . 1 f) , 1 nt 11 n . \\ nnd ti . .tn 11t. · J•· arc· Ill any (•llH · t . r : \JU' ·:~' . \II H II 1'0 \ I' • 1 1 ··· f 1\ • 17 \I'\ . , .. · t 1 • , I · ll'l · · h-..dl• · tt · r. :!!. outlmes the problem> which a 1 o,e' · ' \ ... ,.. ' ·•• 1 • \'n \ ' 1 : 11 • 1 1 • 11 ., 111 , ·~ in the editing of the Shafc>r's work. ··\. '' ' 11 l.l: .. act\ 1 ' .!\\'•· 111 . !•<• t>ll ti:P i \-\ ., ;,.,, 1f ... and thl'il :;o lut 1 on . · -• . . m·, , . ,. ~'i ' · anti 11·::dy to ~Ht at i l.t·ld. ,. . The text can he e ffC' Ctivci'· U>Nl ' .., \ \' '\ k Ill th• · :lJ· · rnirl! . .. 11·: , ,,,.,. , 11• · · J .ft•l!ll\IIIi p m the ta~t half of the fll,t ~·C'ar col·, ,.: 1 . ,, 11 11 ,a 1 ,. :: 1. lege Ge1mnn, ancl in thl' ,.,,,·r,nd · .\ · l.t · .• rl'lt~ . , 1 ., 1 11 1 t II II t It II II II t II ti , tl fl 1:! II II II II ·• .• h ~ :~ I) II :_! II fl )'l':tl' of hrgh ~c hool \\'OIIC l t 1 ::\ . Langua . gr Course ChanA~:-; J:\0'\ llt.t . •. , . . If br e n r<.'COilll!Il'nd ~· d b-y th .. \ Fo : L'i;.:r. · 1 ,. .. J.tl~ L:-.n~uage ~t'\\'s\ \\ nn< ' of Hw tin- 111! . \I'EII II.~. :t u 5 ·• - It; I .\II II II I'll \ F e ;; t public ati on,; nf the ~l':tl. i Dl ~!o;t . on C !'tf'wart, 1n t•h , lf~t• t l: ,,,,, \ ~. I 1 ·' I) :· \ : t 0 . ofthPdi\ ' l:·non ofntodt ' lnlangu:tg• · ..;, 1., , .;, , ... :!h Palermo's \Vol·'· RcfCI'l'Cd has mndr the following ndd:t . Inn !f,· . ', l,\1\;~· · II> II ., )) II 0 ~~ tl fl \ 1\ and ('Oll< ·l' t'ltlll to tln· announc< 'n tPnt lr· · •·;,;, rf {I II II II II To in London Magazine of the chJngt'>i in thf' divJ,;ion nt•xt til\\'\· If 1 IJ II It II \'> II II II Tht• April is::Jue of the Philosoph-: Y(':tr · a~ J.:IVrn Ill tlw ConcoJdi r n > l\' ll ··l n w v. ,.f for :\lay 10. I h ,~, . .. , ... :b \-\'. l! :u nil. p ~~ ·ha:-: t. If - U II 4 0 0 l •1 II leal :\lagazme. publbhed in Lon- , :--.:<'X t Y• ': ll' t hP cour ~e in G€.•Jn l\n don. England, indutles a dl,cu : <wn ; ~1. t:tught by ~h . For,.,tmc>yrr . ·will of a n.! tc ft·Jc• nc• · to - '\\'' done by : <'•>\'t • r lht • i1nmantir pPrin(l i n G·-r- a llll'l!lb<·r ,,f th r l'l l'l'lll (':t! en;.; i· n.:tn lllt ' I:JtUIP .p.llall..ti:l;.;- .•im.ilt! ! : •• :;n~ dt ' } l: ttt .• ,. · n: L•lf TLL' \\ tt lk l' • • lll ·l ':-111 F':t·:lt' 1 ' :t:ld r:: :l,..: ll:--11 !!t 'rc ll:tl!-- I '' · t.l · \I II r·, , ,,, , ~ -,. \ ;,, It lt (I (I ;~f} :! !I 111111 t t tl · t Il l ' 1 ~ •II I'PII ton It ' '' 1. t ;. : 1 \ 27 11 H 11 E • l ., \ ~·t : t ~ d :/:11· ' ·• : : .. . . .. 1 ' r: : • · ·fl .. f : t · i • t'lH:III I'• , .... f~tltll.lli II. lttl ' ~ · . • - !o t f ;. I . • ' II ' ! .. , . I : I. : . .. ·• ·, ; ,!, \\•li\• ' !:1 l<· , ~ -: 'ld \'.1 · ' t t' l l . ,. \\ ' 1 lu · ••J ·•Il 1• · lfl ttl ~t· · ·.~ ; : ~ · ' 1 ··~ iw -.•.·.·: :i 1 · I•1 .\ . !,l:·:: . ' · ··:t.1:: ~~ \':.! .. , o~!• ··· · •:J.:•l4lc:•(l I : • . • . n , • \ ' l •u · h · h :...;, t • .t • : ·, .II • : 1 .. >t J., · · ttl~.t·,.~ I•. · : :i· ·.· . . f . l· .·:. · f J,, ~ :.•t: .•. t1 ::· ~ •• , 'l f:·l · : , 1 . • ·: .... • ...:..t!- ' l• ' ; . . . . •. J .h. . ! .. . ·. ::. . . I ! · ... , I :• I' I II , ., -' !l~t· 1, : \( • • . :u . - , f • 1 , , 1· : _ , . ~ · 1!, Ctr } ~ . d I! ' }• :~I· -· ! t • .. ! 1: •· '\ ,., h ... \ '' _ li . 1' i.• . : I ~II. \\' ,J,,,·Jc ·•· n. :\I :\. · d : d 'n ( · .. j;, ...: ~· < •'f\:.: · · ~1 \, : · .~\ J:Ji,... ;.t!,• l f t . : l • l.l . ; , i •i I; f. tilt· d1.-': i l • ' lt· ,f • tJ• t< . ! .' . r , 1 : 1 I I Tf-{E ACME BARBER SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS A PLEASURE I , I I' J . 1'1 . · • 'I' · ! !t• :. : , IIII I . h FOR YOU ' R OLD c ,.-. .: 3S T EXTBOO.KS . ~ 3S , . - ._ , ....... Tum your old textbooks into ready money or exchange them for current books or translations. Write, stating tide, author and copyright date of che books you want to sell. til e: ,\pill J, ~;Jc· of tht' l'l:!lco~ O !>h­ ic : d !\I:t ;::.zin ( · ~.J1. J:1clt ,.:o n g-ives :. f.•IUll:h d.~. : . . l n t! L:. ,,, l' . tl ermo ancl ~ays tlwt tiiP throry on th l' subjrd would n<•t l• r ,· .. mpl r tf' withrut t!H' con~it!r1a . tinn of thf' lli'W J•Hr:tnu · t<>J,.: o~ fa . rtn l' intrn- tlucrd hy 1>1 l':l!t·lll!ll. ('. :H. T. ('. :\I'!'Ll('.\TWXS The Zav · elle Company . 1330 West Montgomery Avenue . · . Philadelph i a, ;fa . · ·. 509 UNION ST. 1 1 _ NEARE~r THE CAMPus 1 Tomonow is till' Ja,t d:1y for fltJ· I ~~;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;~;;~~;;;;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ulit'atinn~ for nltt•ndnnre · at thP 1 li VISIT THE ENlARGED TAP ROOM GOLo·s SCHEHECT ADY\S POPULAR RENDEZVOUS \' ai· ious Citi7.Pn~ ~1ilita . ry Trnining C':.mps 111 t h i ' :1n-a rl11rin~.: .Jul\ · nnd · ,\u;:u,.:t .. T l:o · • \ l!llp - wil h1· .,, ·· !d a t l'latt,.,tn:r ;..:II La1 1 al'l\. :.la•!isr.n Barradt,; n.nd Fort Xir<R\n . r3., N<>w ,, Yor!t , and at C'amp Dix and Fort Hancork. N . .T. for pP.t·ind~ of ap- proxinHll<'ly on\ m\n t h. ('our~c!l m l ~~~~~~;;~~;;;;~;;~~~;;~~;;~~~~~~~;;~~~~~~~~~~ . ba :<JC ancl :,c: \·,,n ,·cti :n.f a ntry, a d··)' vanc .. d 'ignal c \'I'·' ~. ntl .ttlvan c<>d I field and ('oa,.:t a . 1 till<'I'V \1 ill he of- fE>rrd. · F111· furthPr d P hil< t ·. tll Iknd- quarter,.; Organ.i:>• · <l 1:• - • · rn-. ~l:l State Str<'C'l. 4-977!1 \' i:: : · h£ C'\ '•'- f!in~ call :\1ajnr . T : ,y F: r;ill'lll rn~ · 1-!l:!l;:l _ CHARLES' Forlllerl:v ~-:n·s · The Uff~o ·l al £:11101. ( ' ollege Barber for lhP fl:t~t ~-4 j.t• HTR. ,\ ... k Rll~ upper clnRRm<'ll, lhev know 11 operatol'S. Schenertnriy•s greatest harhP.r COR. RTATF. ANO IIRO . \IIWAY The Gazette Press PR : I NTERS ' - --- - Co!•fl1dll ltU ... Alnrrltu Tobl.c:C'O Comput

lt · r · . 3 1.> . . •. .. · G 1 2 1 2 1 • , . . ... . . .. . 5 1 3 II 1 0 . .. ......... fi l ~ l:ll I !J • . . . .. . :1 ~ I ~ ~ U u . . . · 1 :! 17 r :~ ~ ~ 11 a ,.. (IIJ. : 1, . . f - ) f . \11 H H 1'0,\ · E 4 · • I' - I I I I ) 11 fl. · I II H I! \ I - I \ I I • ! · l l· ll · J I I , 1 II II t• J of I. ~ · ! I ... \ I II I I 1' I h . . . ... ~ . :.: h • • II I ll 0 I II II u 1 I ' I I It II I I 11 I :1 ] II II • II \ fJ I n •• u n 11 . .. • : _ : II II I II 1 I ; · I ; :! l ,\, ~ I 1' 11 I )II II I tlt H - I; , ; ., o tn :t t o :! I x II l :f 3 . ... . Ia .: - 1 : 1• •\\ 11 •: t· •· ' I L l ' ., :--: tt • \ . t I .... .t : ! • r . • ; :d 1 1 , · ~t . , . , , , ... , . , I , - ~ . t ' ad- 1 . 1 ··,, ,, • . _ :! ; :--ot · lll t- ! .. d . I · _ I : 11 11 1 1lll : > I. ); ; , CJ \ \ 11 , I ; _ c !:t 1-k ,1. ~ ; ,, i l t :-- , I ; P. t th ·: - . t , . ~ , It · ' . I : ~ :, . , · , · n...:. 1. 'I• , , ( . - I 1 : 1 I t t ' l ;-. • • ,, . !•l.t ~.;. 1.• 1 1. 111 ~ ; • ·1' I\ II.q 11:n ••d. h . a.·t · .... ~ I 4' \ .tr r~ • r, F 1 \1t It .~• ~t-1 ~ . .. - <;1 ,:-. \ \t d d , ~ . ~ :· v\ t. l . .... , • ' ; :--; Ii i IH' I , ~·. I 'II'\' · ~ • t.; J •l· · lt · J c: ri.._,, , d d : L ·· · it · • l-:' ~ 1 · 1 '\ ' t'll '-'. f ~: - ( ii' J-.. w ~ Ji d, 6 111 :• iunillg :-' ; .. 1 11 1 lllliltt g-; Huchu · ~ t H ~ l•ll!lll , 3 I ll :: i tt fl i ll : : :-.; F :t l·l, .... l ll l g'\' • Jllt · ht• f', h~ · ~llt'hP t' ( J :J' fl \\ ' )1) , t• U t hy t ;n ~\ \o ld , Iu, Sll · \ t... •J • !'i ~ . I: , ...;w· her , 1 ; llUI IJ I, :.!. ' b. tlb - - Stc\ 't.. 'II !\ ~Jil ·l · · ~ · nnn • .> IJ y . ' - · MILK SO RICH (QU CAN WHIP THE CREAM Produc e d I: n dcr · ict La · loo ra tory C o ntrol ·or Daily Service PHONE 4-3121 ~ral Ice Cream Corp. SCHOOL S., M.S. •llegr Board, :xaminations QUEST ·nes 4-3785, 2-6352-M --======~ I , I SECTION \National Collegiate News in Picture and Paragraph\ • U . 8 ; TRADEMARK SERIAL NUMBER 3.1341 ~ '' ') ... BRAIN TESTING MACHINE » The ticker tape on this device developed at Harvard University records a pattern of the patient's brain activity by graphing t he varying amount of electric current de - veloped in solving mental problems . WIDE woRLD PHOTO . ~y. -; ·· . -7 , --. .. _ - - . ~ --- . ,1 '•• - .:·: . . . . · ; . . i I k I - ,- ! ~ . .' . · . . · ·: ~ .. . ·.,. · :t ' . ' . ' : · :: . · :: . - : ~ ; \: I . i \. · '· l r, . - b ;\'t\ · it -' - . ·.~ \MOST BEAUTIFUL BLONDE\ » Northwestern Un i - versity ' s ranking student actress, Jacquelin Wieland, a Ddta Gamma, will go to Hollywood soon for a screen test. PAUL STONE. - AAYMO R PHOTO TWICE A WINNER » Both the discus and hammer cham- pionshi~s <it the Penn Relays were captured by Bates Colleges champion, Anton Kishon. His hammer mark was 167 feet, 7 and a quarter inches. ACME .1

I . . . . . . • · ·. • · · • · : I · . I · · . · II : · . · • · . . · • R B T . h II rrh · OF . F p ·· hk . . · ow : 1ng s • · sse·st · . rl :· : · . · ey re : · .· . : · at : o . ug . ·. ee · ps• · e . . . , •' · ·f ·'· . · .: . ....... .,. Cornell's V m·sit)' Rows on Lake Cay11ga. T HE most thri-l : ling . moment-when does it come? Many .have been the sporting situations iri fiction and ih fact which have been pictured to bring home this sensation, but to those who have ever seen the start of a varsity race in the anm:Jallntercolle~i?te Regatta at ~oughkeepsi~ ~here can be no other most thrillrn g moment . It s there, and 1t s got every- thing that goes to give any . fan el(citement and gooseAesh. • ROWING is rich in 'tradition and the Poughke~psie _ Regc3tta glitters with i'i;lre color in this respect. To th~ winning crew in. each race go the jerseys ofallof the oMs- men and coxswains in the other boats. When Columbia i won in 1929, the banner year when nine crews were entered, the Blue crew collected 72 jerseys. In that race, the failure . of the Cor.nell crew to . report to the starting . l ' irie on time caused the race to be rowed in darkness against a heavy tide. . Seven boats, each wit~ eight oars protruding, lined up like as many . centipedes on the west side of the Hudson river, each held in place by - a rna rker boat. That is the scene upon which the spectators in the 40 Aatcars look . The official ,yacht draws up astern . An old, but ere~t man, Julian W . Curtiss, a Yale oarsman of the sevent1es and J~rmesCantler; · 64·Year-oldrigger,pre- referee for almost three decades, steps forward. pares the Navy's sleek shell for the A d~:~ckir'rg in the water · is the reward ofthe winning coxs~ain . The ritual, which today follows eve . ~ crt?W ' race, 1s the gay method of expressrng the bodt's resent- ment\ for his bullying cries of the race. Silence in the observation train. The entire Aotilla of Regatta. destroyers, patrol boats, canoes, yachts, and excursion steamers which follow the wake of the racing shells seem to pause in absol.l!lte quiet. Clearly, Referee Curtiss' voice rings out for all to bear, \Are you ready all? .. + + • The gun bdrks. ' They're off!·· And anything may happen-in fact, has happened, and probably will happen again. \WATCH Cornell\ has been the bugaboo of every sheU since the ~rst big race on the Hudson, July 2, 1901. For it was the big Red crew that won the first three races and 10 Of the ~rst 12 races. Since that time, the Cornell record has not been as high although in recent years they have been standin~ with Columbia as the best the East can offer against the double western threat of Washington and California. During the first 13 years of the Poughkeepsie Regatta, victory was an upstate New York monopoly, for when Cornell did not win, Syraqse did. In the last three rac e s prior to the three·year laps!' during the war, Columbia, Cornell, 0 nd Syracuse were the respective winners . Whe,... competition was resumed in 1920, Syracuse again won . l't was not until two decades after the first race that Navy, a natural for the rowing sport, was able to break the ice. Pennsylvania, the fifth member of the Intercollegiate Rowing Association, has never crossed the Hne a winner . While the membership of the I. R A is limited to the five original members, in- vitations are extended to other colleges with crews to compete. Wisconsin finished third, when a guest at the first regatta, and took second and third places in the two following years. Since 1929, the Badgers have not competed on the Hudson, but they continue to receive annual invitations. Of the other original guests, George- town and Stanford dropped crew dS d sport years ago, but signs of a revival are imminent at the Far Western college. Wash1ngton and California stand today as the most renowned guests dnd the best crews year in and year out dt Poughkeepsie. Since 1922, the Huskies have beell at Poughkeepsie to finish in the first three places every year with the exception of 1930. first in 1923, 1924, and 1926, second Rve times, and third three times, they have d record that commands Jespect on the Hudson . The fastest time ever recorded for the four - mile course which ~uns past Krum Elbow and Hyde Park, home of President Roosevelt, and under the two bridges, was California's 18:35 4/5 in 1928. The same crew 0 which beat Columbia in this race by less than a boat length, went on to win dn lympic victory. A similu record although not in time, was hung up by the Golden Bears of 1923. California dlso won in 1934, following the depression lapse of 1933. Since the death of Wisconsin's \Dad\ Vail in 1928, there has been only one grand old man in rowing, Coach Jim Ten Eyck of Syracuse, now in his 86th year and still active in the sport. His son, Young Jim, is coaching the infant Rutgers crew on the Raritan. Syracuse, under Ten Eyck, is always a threat. So it goes, at Columbia, the Glendons,. at Cornell, Jim Wray, at California 1 mint.rte Ky Ebright, at Pennsylvania, . Rusty Callow, and at Washington 1 AI Ulbrickson, ~~~s~and:..out coac~es. The latter three ar-e al'l W~shington me~ that insti.tutio~ rank- In~ rn crew coach1n~ today as Notre Dame does rn Footbc:riL Uther stone~ m1ght be told about each of them . And more color can be found m the lakes and rnlets and rivers, ~pon which thecrew~ tr~in, but late in the after~oon ofTuesday, Jl!ne 18, all eye.s w1ll be on Poughkeepsie, rn the seven l<mes leadmg out from the west bank of the Hudson river. • + • AT I~TERVALS of one hou:, the. three races, freshman, junior varsi_ty, .and ~ar~ity wdl be ·rowed for respect1ve d1s(ances of two, three, and · four mrles, begrnnrng a dour o' dock eastern standard time. Each time, the observation train will. start and follow the boats, as will the river Aotilla. Twice they will retrace their , mov.ements unti I the big varsity race . Sev_en c:ews,_ Columbia, Corn~ll, Syracuse, Pennsylvania, Navy, Washington, and Cal1fom1a, w1ll face the starters gun above Krum l:lbow. A few days before the rdce they will be assigned to their lanes, beginning with the treasured No. 1 1 the Hrstfrom the bank. But good crews in the o~:~tside lane have been known to win. From the coast will again come the favorite, Washington, rowing its victorious ~reshmen of 1934 intact as_ the ~arsity crew. California, once conquered by Wdsh- lngton but ready to try agam, w1ll not be spurned as a contender. In the East, Syra- cule is looked upon with favor, while Cornell remains the perennial dark horse. Tradition decrees that Columbia will be there, but the loser, in a close finish, unless the worm turns, for in four close Rnishes, the Morningside Heights boat has been second best four times. Navy, under young Huck Walsh, may triumph, since a Navy crew is always considered dangerous in rough water . Can ~allow do for .Penn- wlvania what he used to do at Washington and what the Ouakers have never done-turn in a v.ictory? The answers are a mystery, but tradition will be enriched on the afiernoon of June 18 . It always is at Poughkeepsie, no matter whether the race is as slow as th9t of 1929 or as close as the eyeldsh Syracuse-Cornell finish of 1908 and Wdshingtori- NdVy of 1926. ACME AND KEYSTONE PHOTOS Here is the University of W askmglotl Varsi~v, a strong favorite for this year ' s Regatta winner. Composed of all sophomores, this crew rowed to win the championship over freshmen shells of other colleges last year. Left to right are: B~d Schacht, stroke, Rober Morris, Bob Greetz, Delos Schoch, Charles Hartman, Joe Rantz, George Runt, and George Lund; bow. George Morry, coxswain, is kneeling. A general view of the P~ughkeepsie co11rse, showing the finis-.h line itt the distance. A part of the large num- her \!/ t·essels that cat:ry spectators may be seen in fhe disltt11ce. Successors to a long line of winning crews; the University of Calijornia oarsmen lost the most important west coast race to the Vniversity of Wash- ington H11skies last month. Left lo right are: G-etie Berkemkamp; stroke; . . Leroy Briggs, Tevis Thompson,- john Stage, Carroll Brigham, Elmer Moore - J. McKinney, and Harley Fleming, bow. Reg Jrl' a~ coxswaitl~ is kneeling. Of( And ne.n insiJ L• clio ; sot c agr• cou the : Wa say: For j ing ne, B11 my Be Tb It yo ba tit

il ;l · e er. i hkeepsi~ : . To the the oiirs~ :olumbia ws were t hat race, ~ starti ng . darkness winn i ng :::!¥ crt?w ' ; resent- in 1928, g, Coach and still Non the ali · fornia, brkkson, ion rank- might be 1lets and •e18,all t bank of td varsity 1eginning stdrt and ov.ements shington, ts before j No . 1, n to win. 'ictorious 'Y WcJsh- 3st, Syra- rk horse. ih, unless has been ::a Navy or Penn- ve never rnoon of was that ;hingtori- inning fornia t west Wash- .eft lo rtroke; , john Moore !ming, ~eling. LO ' U G EH'lt'l G has played in more ~han 1500 con- secutive big league · gao:ies- an adUetk achievement: th<tt . taJces '~ind~'--healthy oerves-'\conditioo..\ Lou says: \ ' For steady smoking I . pick Camels. They're so mild they nevet get my 'wind' or my nerves.'' Of COU!$e you · \Want mildness in a cigarette. And the athletes-to whom \wind healthy nerves, \condition\ are vitally important- insist on mildness. Lou Gehrig says: \For steady smoking I choose Camels. Why? Because · Camels are so mil<l they never 8et my •wind.'\ Other stars noted for their \condition\ agree. George Barker, intercollegiate cross· country chat11pion, says: \Camels ~re so mild, they don ' t c~t llly · 'wind' in . any way.\ Bobby Walthour,Jr., . sta .. N>fthe six-day bike grinds, says: ~·1'·1e got to have 'wind' in bike racing. For my cigarette . I long ago chose Camels.\ And golf? Here's Tommy Armour speakr ing: \Camels never bother my nerves ... never shorten my'wind.\' Tennis? Listen to Bruce Barnes: 11 C~els never interfere with my 'wind.''' An<l fancy-diving champion, Betty Bailey; says: ''\1 must proteq my 'wind.' That's why l sm<>ke Camels.'' What dOes this kind of mildness mean to you? It means you t:a..n smoke . as many Camels as you, please. Aibletes - say Camel's costlier to- baccos ne~er dist~rb your nerves- never tire your taste-neve~ get your \wind.\ l, . . ~ ·· · ~ . · , . .... . '•; .. © 1~ . R. J . lwynol ds 'l 'o b· Co . :rRACK GEORGE BARKER Former Intercollegiate Cross - Country Champion · : · . . ·, . ' ... ~ ~ : , · <f · . ... GOOD ' NEWS! Tile pleasant things in life are doubly pleas· ant when ybu ' re \in condition\- tbe difficult things, just half as annoying. So it's good news to hear that Camel's costlier tobaccos are so mild you can smoke as many a s you please. Athletes say Camels never affect your , ,erves . -never get your \wind.\ '. , COSTLIER TOBACCOS! . • Ca111els are made f.ro.m tiner, . MORE EXPENSIVE TOBACCOS -Turkish and . Oo01e:stic- than any other popular brand. (Si g ,.td}' R . ], REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston - Salem, N.C.

DEMONSTRATING AGAINST \UN-AMERICANISM\ ,, A portion of · the large body of University of Detroit undergraduates wh.9 pledged themselves to \defend their country in a just war . unhesitatingly and tO the end . INTERNATIONAL PHOTO . - .-. -- .., , \ NEWSPAPER'S FRESHMAN QUEEN ~~ Jane Stowell was selected dS a University of Toledo beauty by the staff of the Campus Collegian, undergraduate weekly. f\IAN WALLACE PHOTO · , .,.~ - -- - ~ · --· . - - ·: · - - -- ' 'PACED BY A RACE HORSE \ Bd) F a rr , c.r.a c k 'L o yol a v\' r s tt y ( Lo s A. n g el es) h urd l. : r . is tr ainm g o n th e K e ll ogg · In st i t ut e A n1rn a l Hus b and ry tr dc k .for cJ n attem pt t o b e tt t> r e'l<i strng hu . wco r d < HIGH JUMPERS It A tense moment in a DePat!l University (Chi- cago) women's intramural basketball game is recorded in this unusual action photogrdph. KIRKLAND PHon3 p

' J . , ANOTHER RUN · FOR N . Y. U. IS b ro u gh t in by G r er ' nbng wit h hs i h ome r i n rh., close m d t c h W it h Wdg n e r Co l i <>ge WIDE WORLOPHOT O CHAMPIONSHIP FENCfNG FORM is posed by Helene Mayer, U.S. women's cham - pion, forthis group of Mills College (Calif) co-ed fencing enthusiasts . ~ - /~~~. COUNTING BULL'5-EYEJ) ,. Betty Woodbridge, Swarthmore College (Pa.) archer, marks up the score she made in a recent practice meet. ACME. IT'S THE SPHERILLUMINATOR ,. And is used to make photometrical measurements . The only machine of its kind in the world, it is here being operated by Prof . Erich Hausmann of Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute (N. Y .).. '

HE DOES IT AGAIN ,. Jdck Torrdnce, Louisiana State University gidnt, tosses the 12-pound weight __better than 62 feet to set d new record at the Penn ~eldyS. ACME PHOTO FAMED ARtiSTS' QUEEtlof ,. Russell Patterson, John LaGatta and Howard Chandler Christy chose Ruth Hamilton as most beautiful at New York Uni- versity school of commerce. CO-ED ENGINEER ,. Sarah Glaiber, Chi Omega at Alabama Polytechnic Insti- tute, is surveying for her course in archi- tecture. G01111G AWAY suits for the young bride are w-ort1 by th . eseNew York debutantes clS a feature of the stYle snow stc.ged to raise funds for a new Brvn Mawr College building. ACME PHOiTO . I ~ ~EW PRESIDE~T ,. Rita Von Oesen heads Sf<icf-- ' moreCollege Government A~sodation for 1935-36. · MV 'Wtr. T() ' liG~ . MELL0\1 PRINt£ : 80'1- 11 BE&1' . iC tot~~ ' E'/E . I~TQ A · : fill.\\ ' .. ,. { · . i l l

>ic:tutes eliilble ed,arid 'is. .by )VJ. ~ge ro • _' ~ d.- b. I I · il ,. I K. K. K RIDES ON U. C. L. A. CAM- PUS « This fiery cross at the entrar.~ce to University of California (Los Angeles) grounds was burne~ simultaneously with the distribution of pamphlets which read : \Communism will not be tolerated ... the Ku Klux Kl~n rides i!gain.\ --- SPRING - FASHIONS · IN ' REVIEW ,. The latest in co-ed :style~ was presented · at the annual fashion s~ow . staged by these . students at Pembro'ke College in Brown Unrverstty. Gowns dnd ensembles for all occastQns were modeled by these . seven stylists. KEYSTONE . I \ i NEW HONORS .were hedped on Evangelme Ddvey, daught~r of . Ohro's govemor end Kappd Kappd Gamma, when she was chosen queen of Ohio Stdte's froternity ball. EDWARDS PHOTO HER BEAUTY A NO . POPULARITY were r e- spons1ble forEIIenPratt b\1ng \ l ected MdyOue\n dt Swe~t 8ndr Colleg e (Vd) ACME $100~000 BLAZE AT DARTMOUTH «An aerial view of the fire whi . ch partially destroyed Dartmouth Hall, colonial classroom building of . Dartmouth College. WIDE woRLD DANCE QUEEN ,. Kathleen Gallagher will reign over the annual prom of the Alpha Delta Gamma fraternity at Loyola University (Chicago). PAUL sTONE-RAYMOR Printed by Alco Gravure Inc., Chicago, Ill. 5391.3-3::

• . . .. l11 1927 \Pamp\ Tmu, Alpha Dell, was a Cornell .University actor of attainments. Son of wealth, he was both a gentleman and a scholar, bavi1lg made four honor Jocieties and Phi !Jeta Kappa. Fran- chot Tone's next film is M-G-M's \No More Ladies\ u•ith Joan Crauford, who is, puhlic amwunce- ments repeat(!dly state, tbe object of Mr. Tone's private courtship. FRANCHOT. TONE 1sdisttngUJshed from fel- low collegtdns workmg before Hollywood cameras in that he IS a Ph, Beta Kappd. This fact makes him a bookworm among mdny current \Gredt Lovers\ of the films who dropped in on college mdtnly to perfect themselves in footbdll. Mr Tone also differs from the above tn that he knew no poverty on the way up to his present emtnence. - Descendant of General Theobald Tone, an 18th Century lr~sh rebel, whose features and <' XCitable hlood unmtstakably cdme down the years to descend on him, Franchot was, in eastern parlance, \prepared\ for Cornell University by private tutoring, European travel, and the stylish Hill School in-Pennsylvania. The Tones of Nidgara Falls, N . Y., were 'people of substance and dignity who hoped they were Faising a son of taste and culture . IN THIS they were not wrong. \Pamp\ Tone proceeded directly toward making Phi Betd Kappa and demonstrating a natural, intelligent instinct for the theater. The prize Cornell rushee of 1923, he was won by the Alpha Delts. Two years later, in one of his periodic revolts against conventtonal livtng, he left the Alpha Delta Phi house to live 1n an apartment. He assiduously worked four years in the Cor- nell theater, performing with· recognized ex- pertness in such plays as Shaw's Arms and the Man, Wappin' Whar( and /?ight You Are. He accepted in his stride membership in Phi Kappa Phi, Book and Bowl, a(;ld Sphinx Head, all .honor societies, without decreasing ihe wide ~atitude of his social life. O N GRADUATION in 1927 · he began with characteristic directness to become an actor by working as stagehmd ' and \walk on.\ player 1n Buffalo stock. Later,.in New York, he took d room in a first-class hotel : and waited for d JOb. Proving his brisk confidence came from a belief in himself as an actor, not his bckkground, he accepted roles with the New Pla{wright's theater, a poor but idealistic group o thinkers hec:Jded by John Dos Passos, and the Group Theater, another body of ,poor players not in- terested in having capitalists . among them. After a season with Katherine Cor.nell and the Theater Guild, Franchot hee:ded the Hollywood call in 1932. The \New Republic\ thereupon printed a pa.ragraph of re~ret that a Fine actor was going the way of all flesh. This seemed the case. Franchot Tone has a tea-time look fatal in movieland. His first impor- tant picture was Gabriel Over .the White House. In Bengal Lancers he started< his .struggle for emancipation from playi · ng a stenographers dream of a Prince Charming in a Dusenberg. DID YOUR CAMPUS produce a personality who is now promment in the radio, motion picture. stage, art, business, or pohucal world? If you want to see that personality the subject of a \Spotlighter\ thumbnail · sketch, write The Spothghter, Collegtate Dtgest, P. 0. Box 471., Madison, Wts . One dollar wtll be paid for each acceptable picture sub· mmed, m addition to one dollar for acceptable authentic anecdotes about the famed of today. SECRETARY OF WAR DERN GIVES PERSHING A WARDS toW. H. Glenn, Jr . , Georgia Tech . ; J. C. McHaney, Texas A . & M.; A. E. Lawson, University of Illinois; W. J. Haberer, Jr., University of Dayton; and A. D. Merry, Cornell University. ACME . .:, · · ': : · :·, . , .. l .. , ~ I .i' , , _ . ~ . . . I . . ; : . . ' -··· .. ' • . ~ . . : l . .. 1 ' I . J? J r-;::c:~:l~l:::: e 1 ! I Tomorrow I I I Conunencement I I : I ~ ! Exercises I l Monday I t _______________ Vol. LVIII., N0. 60 TVtt elve Classes Ar Represented I Alu ~ mni Parad La-st Night'.... Heunion,; P.n·n· I''J:u('t·~,;ion 'fhi,; :\lorniiH!·: Seniors Join Alumni Stone Presented Class of 189::i Gives Memor For Grave of Whitehorne . Fonner Professor Twelve cia~~\~ of Union Coli alumni retutn tu their Allua :.1u l his W e t • I<-L·tlll, atl<l havinb ho · lJ t nu.litionn · l n·unictns and h:mf!L la~l night, they unite this mom for the annual proct':;:;ion wl : culminated in the formal 1 reept of the gmduating cia:;:; into alumni ranks . Forming at 10 : 30 thi.; motn ' t ht• J•at adt· lilt-d at nund t ],.. l'<>ll I ant'~ to lint· up fur t ht· 1 t \'!t·\\\ the un~~ident, t1 u,.,lees aut.! 1\.eur Cor·p:; Comnuttec at 11 a. m. un .Fwnt CamJ.!U:i. A l!ll'lllbet uf olde::~t class to attend, Louis Opi heim, '75, acted as Grand Mars The class of 1885, wearing gal hat band::;, n e cktie:; and arm ba 1 was lead by Dr J. P. Man;h , Troy, F. E. Bradley, of Kinderh• F. E. Crane, of Amsterdam, W. C. Mills, of Gloversville. ~ members of the class of 1890 1 to march, but held no for dinner. Following a dinner at thr hawk Club lust night, 1895 tc :;et up a memorial stone for unmarked grave of Henry Wl hor·ne, former member of faculty. Seventeen members \ expected to march in the cession. Decked in derby hats, appt mately 15 members of marched, following a dinner at Van Curled Hotel last night. added color to the procession · dark coats, white flann~l p~ and while straw hats deem · with garnet bands. Sixteen to attend. The most bizarre affect was sented by a group of Rm<sian• by Mr . M. Hotchkiss, Class Mar of 1910. The costumes were sc : with black trimmings and ca1 Huey Long's \Share the Wt Club\ was represented by which apcJ>ared in crowns, t robes, and bare feet. 1925 ~ollc with jungle hats toppmg ensembles of white trouser~, f shoes, and blue coats. Thut~ or· 40 were expected to atten• A splash of color was adde the contrasting red sashes whit~ shirt~ of thP class of which also wore while truu::;eL:: shoes. They were led by W. l Lehman, marshal. Seniors Puff on In Traditional Pledging etet nal friends hi they puffed on the old \l Pipe,\ the members of the .s clao:~s carried out the tradtt Cla!:i::l Day ceremonies in Jack Garden::; yc:;tcrdny afternoon . . After meeting in front ol Mcnwl'ial Chnprl, thC' senior! by their class mnrshal. Maus lngton Stearns; Jr .. of Schenec marc.:hcd nrrMs the c:'mpus b~ of the Librnry. nnd mto Jad Gardens. Here they settled m of the old ~ott Elm. followm custom whtch dates back than 130 years. . Semerad Prestdes Ralp Scmeracl . of Schene' th president of the clas~, off!• t e the Class Day exercises. ~pectators were finding sea · th grassy slopes around th• e~r-old tree, William A. WE lr of Schenecta~y, pa~se~ a the famous \Unwn PIJ?e t class. The pipe, ~ replica be library. ts a sym college . d is passed a friendshtp, ant m of the Me ~f~~n~!,h~u~~ce lived on th • n . the college now s ~rt~re half of the seUi?l'S ha~ a long pull on the P.lpe, l\1!1 . ron delivered the Ptpe Ora1 d A brief history of t~e claE iven by Rankme G. then ~f Schenectady, the Bfs~~rlan. The Cl3;ss Poet, ~ S Rosen, of Jamatca, Long · · oem he had con f~adho~~r p of the class an occasion.

