t :>s ~R er signed name to 3 printed. I ~SIS 1lze r., OF miza- ·the dairy :your 1:' ice Leather Aakes ttecl ~lL • I I Vol. LIX .• No. 22 Faculty Cemmittee Changes Cut Rules· For Year 1936 .. 37 Students Will Have to Fulfill Attendance -Requirements Of Class Instructor No Official Exemptions \Excessive Absences\ May Lead to Debarring Student From a Com·se A new, simplified set of rules governing attendance at all college classes was adopted by the Curricu- lum Committee of the faculty at a meeting last week, Dean Charles F. F. Garis announced today. Under the new rules, which will go into effect with the college year 1935-37, all students will have to satisfy their various individual in- structors' attendance requirements. -Each instructor will determine to what extent absences from his classes adversely affect the stu- dent's work, and will make rules accordingly. No Exemptions Listed There will be no official distinc- tion made between student::> on the Dean's List for high scholarship and those who are not, regarding the number of absences permitted. A record of class attendance will be kept, as in the past, but this will be for the use of the instructor. The attendance record will be taken into account by the Dean's office only when \there may be occasion to determine the student's status in the college\. For this purpose, ab- sence from class on days imme- diately before or after a recess will count double, as in the past. 'Excessive Absences' Undefined A student may be debarred from a course by the Dean for \excessive absences\ from the class sessions of that course, upon recommendation of the professor in charge of the field of st11dy concerned. Determin- ation of what constitutes \excessive absence\ is up to the instructor, the :professor in charge of the field, and the Dean of the college. The pro- cedure in such a case will be for the instructor to recommend debar- ment to the head of his field, who in turn will recommend such action to the Dean, -who will investigate the reasons for the excessive ab- sences before action is taken on the case. Dean Garis said, in making the announcement, that \no rule has ever been devised that can ade- quately meet the conditions to be found in a multitude of courses in the college curriculum,\ and that it was for this reason that the Divi- sion of Mathematics and Science recommended the adoption of the new simplified attendance rules. Not lm[losed floom Above \Absences should be a matter be- tween the instructor and the. stu- dent,\ Dean Garis explained, \and not something imposed from above by the administration.'' According to Dean Garis and the Curriculum committee, the new sys- tem will reverse the old philosophy governing attendance at classes. \At present we are inviting stu- dents to take their full quota of ab- sences,\ he said, \and we are offer- ing unlimited cuts as a reward for high scholarship.\ The new rules emphasize the positive side of at- tendance rather than the negative, he explained, and have a flexibility which mal\es them applicable to widely different types of classes: recitations, lectures, demonstration- lectures, and laboratories. Students Vote for Dances A resolution to have dances after basketball games made by William Freedman, '36, was put in the form of a motion by Franklyn Converse, '37, In the regular meeting of the student body yesterday morning. 'fhe motion was passed unanimous- ly, but President Charles Krull '36, expressed his doubts' as to whether or not the Athletic department would allow the gymnasium floor to be used for that .purpose, and an- nounced thta he would appoint a committee to investigate the ques· tlon. The .committee has not been named as this issue goes to press. UNlON COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1935 PRICE FIVE CEN'IS New Absence Rules To Begin Next Year The text of the newly-adopted absence rules as they will all- peal.· in college catalogue for the yeaJ' 1936-37: Students are expected to at- tend all of their scheduled col- lege exercises. A recGrd of the student's ·at- tendance will be ltept, and taken into account whenever there may be occasion to deter- mine his status in the College. Each absence from class on days immediately preceding or following a recess counts as two absences. A student may be debarred by the Dean of the College on recommendation of the profes- sor in charge of the field con- cerned, from any course at any time for excessive absences. Sudden Legislation Condemned by Fox . First Dean's List . Of Semester Shows An Improvement Upper Classes Include 127 Of 219 Named; Juniors Have Largest List Seniors Second Present Graduating Class In· creases Its Record of Last Year by 21 Names Class of 1936 Bachelor of Arts- Clarence Clark Burton B. Delack, Albert B. Dia: manto, John L. Doran, Frederick P. Dunn, John B. Emans, Clement A. Finch, Nelson A. Foot, Jr., Wal- lace T. Foote, William Freedman, Vedder M, Gilbert, Charles A. Gil- more, Jr•., Morton I. Gold, John D. Hall, John L. Hallenbeck, Robert · S. Langer, Irving Lifset, William C. Hits '\Lynching Parties\ That Maguil·e, Virginia Martin, John A. B ht Ab t All . McGuire, John S. McKnight, Rob- roug ou eg1ance er·t J. McManus, Donald c. Miller, Oath in Washington Robert C. North, Carl E. Olson, • Thomas N. Palmatier, James L. The action of over-enthusiastic Americans who attempt to smother ideas by sudden legislation, .such as exemplilied in Wa:>hington, D. C., where teachers are required to swear a monthly oath of allegiance, was condemned by President Dixon Ryan Fox in his address at the 15th annual convention dinner of the National Council fOL' the Social Studies at the Hotel Pennsylvania Friday night. Instead of trusting the \court of general good sense,'' those who would ''lynch an idea with a sudden statute\ really excite curiosity about and respect for the new doc- trine, said Dr. Fox In his speech he particularly excorIated those re- sponsible for the federal statute in. Washington where teachers must take monthly oaths not to mention or to refer to the philosophy of communism in teaching their courses in the social studies-even though this philosophy operates in one o·f the largest countries in the world. American Tempe1•ament Impatient Dr. Fox's address follows In part: \'Phe American temperament is in- tense and impatient. Accustomed to t•apid social changes we are like· wise accustomed to rapidly chang- ing laws. These laws, being speci- fic, soon grow obsolete; unenforced, they contribute to lawlessness and the toleration of lawlessness. \These lynching parties never trust the court of general good sen.se; they will never wait, if they can help it, for a full trial of an idea before that tribunal. They are ready to stat t with their own lethal apparatus wheneve1 they think its guards are weakened by the loss of prestige. The first point of attacl~: is the public school, since schools are immediately controlled by sta- tute. Palmer, William E. Parker, Jr., William H. Parsons, George W. Putman, Charles L. Reid, Jr., Ray- mond F. Robinson, John Ross, Leon J. Saiewitz, Derrick A. Sher- man, Charles D. Stinard, Donald Trumbull, VanVechten Trumbull, Michael J. Tytko, Alvin VanVal- kenburg, Jr., George T. Ward, Rob- ert E. Wells, Benjamin J. Wilson, Morton H. Yulman. B. S. in Civil Engineering-Mich- ael E. Fiore, Thomas D. Randall, Albert H. Stevenson. B. S. in Electrical Engineering- Arthur Bullard, Howard G. Earls, Philip Hutt, William S. Irvine, Charles M. Krull, Jr., Willis B. Plummer, Charles M. Taylor. B. S. in Chemistry-Kenneth J. Frederick, Gustav F. Hallstrom, Herman D. Kluge, Michael Prizner, Donald W. Strack. B. S. in Physics-Clark Beckett, Harold Howe. Class of 1937 Bachelor of At•ts-Burns F. Bar· ford, Jr., Donald H. B<U>ter, Fay B. Beger, Kenneth N. Brown, Irving Brownstein, Jerome L. Cohen, S. Ralph Cohen, George C. Cummings, John C. Davis, John J. Deveny, Robert J. Doolittle, John B. Dow- ling, Jr., Stuart J. Fisenberg, Rush B. Faville, Fred Feldman, Joseph A. Field, Jr., Theodore W. Fox, Charles D. Friss, Freder'ick W. Frost, Fenton A. Gage, Frank B. Gatchell, Jr., Guy A. Graves, Jr., William A. Griesau, Ferdinand Helm, Jr., Marvin Katz, Wilford A. C. LeForestier, Harvey Lifset, James W. McKenzie, Jr., Dominick Mele, Roy C. Moon, William B. Myer, Frank Y. Peck, Charles H. Reeves, Robert H. Rice, James H. Riggs, David J. Ring, Paul C. Rob- inf)on, Casimer W. Ruszkowski, Berl!ard H. Salad, Calbert B. Selm- ser, William B. Shepherd, Richard C. Snyder, George C. Stewart, Nor- man R. Stewart, Frank L. Thorne, Jack Tinkle, Francis E. Townley, (Continued on Page 4l faculty Women's Club Will Conduct Book Sale A book sale sponsored by the Faculty Women's Club will be held in the Old Gym Dorm De- cember 13 and 14 from 9 :00 to 5.:00, the proceeds .from -which will go to the general scholar- ship fund. Students interested in pur- chasing or donating books are urged to cooperate, as well as families of students or friends of the college residing in Sche- nectady. Donations will be re- ceived in the Old Gym Dorm from 2:30 to 5:00 on Friday or can be left in the hallway at any time. French Ba~k From Annual Conf ere nee Union's Represe11tative Notes Universality of Problems At Govemment Gathering Dl'. Patte1·son H. French, associ- ate professm· of government, re- cently at-tended the 42nd annual conference on government which was held in Providence, Rhode Is- land, under the auspices of the Na- tional Municipal League. Two things at the conference par-- ticularly impressed Dr. Ft•ench; the first was the fact that the problems which are attracting the attention of citizens in the city of Schenec- tady and the state of New York are attracting the attention in cities and states in all parts of the coun- try; the second was the cooperation exhibited by the various attendants at the meeting: college students and professors, government offi- cials, civic workers, business repre- sentatives, and professional men worked together in an effort to throw light on the topics under dis- cussion. Itound Table Discussion Several round table discussions on many social problems concerned with local, state and national ad- ministration made up the program for the two days, with many na- tionally-known f:ig·ures prefacing the discussions with addresses on the various topics. \Colleges and college students,\ declared Union's representative, \can play a part in solving many of the problems which were consid- ered. In some instances, research by faculty and students can provide information which will be illumin- ating and helpful. In all instances, intelligent study of the problems by the students will l)e of v~lue by pro- viding informed leadership for the electorate when the problems are being considered and decided. And it is to be hoped that this study will serve as a starting point to stu- dents who will go deeper into the problems in the future as public servants.\ Dt•, French attended the confer- ence for two purposes, he said. He intended to bring back to his class- es, especially to that in state and local government, the latest devel- <Continued on Page 4) \With the natural recession of war feeling in 1919, the Irish and the Germans made an attack, un- successful for a time, to wipe out all appreciation of England from - the schoolbooks, especially histories 11..K. obz.lz·ty Of uale uouse Claz·med By dealing with the American Revolu- 1r.J.4 1...1.1 .l.l4 tion. There was some need of re- ~si~~ ~~~;~ f~~~~o~a:~~ ~!f~:~ Students Answering Questionnaire than by the violence of lynching parties. Now when the prestige of planned economy is declining, for the time being, the lynching parties are gathering their apparatus of oaths and threats to terrorize teachers. That even seniors don't know to the second question, and a class- much about their· college seems to mate said the donors are listed be evident from the results of a there. However, they both knew little questionnaire propounded by where to find the Hale House. the inquisitive reporter. The Hale House is over in Jack- The questions asked were con- son's Garden.s, according to one Latest Attack in Washington cerned with the college in generaL member of the class of 1938. A sec- \The latest attack has come not 'The first was \What is a mounte- ond honestly admitted he didn't. in some remote and primitive vii- bank?'' the second, \What is the know. A mountebanks is one who lage, but in the national capital it- inscription on the back of the acts on a stage, or a member of the self. There by Federal statute 3,300 Payne Memorial Gate?\ the third, college dramatic society, they said. teachers must talce monthly oaths \Where is the Hale House?\ As to the inscription on the back of not to mention nor advert to the The first senior to be questioned the Payne Gate, both were com- philosophy of .communism. Thus said that a mountebank is •an indi- pletely in the dark. the constitution is to ·be preserved vidual who a]}pears in a theatrical One of the freshmen. p·ut the Hale by violating the spirit if not the let- production as an amateur. Another House in South Colonnade, and an- ter of its first ammendment. called it \one of a group of play- other knew all about the Gate. But \These high school students are ers.\ Neither could say what is on one said the Hale House is- that assured that reason and American the back of the Payne Gate. The nice round building in the .center of ex:perience can not hold their own latter senior located the Hale House· the campus. against a new doctrine, with a con- as the \building as you turn to- For the benefit of those who wish sequent accession of curiosity about. ward Nott Street\ (•he probably to be enlightened, a mountebank is and respect for the new doctrine. meant Nott Terrace), while the for- a charlatan o·r quack, according to \Thus dogma is substituted for mer asked, astonished, \Are there Webster. On the back of the Payne inquiry. Thus, in the capital where things like that around here?\ Gate are the verses of John How- Thomas Jefferson once presided, is One of the junior class defined a ard: Payne's song, \Home Sweet erased his penetrating aphorism: mountebank as a traveling player Home.\ Last, but not least, Hale 'Error is harmless so long .as reason in Europe in the Middle Ages. He House is in South Colonnade ad- Is left free to combat it'.\ confessed ignorance of the- answer joining Dr. Waldron'l;l residence. fi ,' Council Backs Committee On Mountebanks' Challenge - ----------------~~-- Pillsbury Attacks Nunan- Erlich Bill Before Alumni W. Howard Pillsbmy, Superinten- dant of Schools, gave a brief sum- mary of the Nun.an-EL'lich taxa- tion bill's impo1 t at the regular monthly meeting of the Schenec- tady County Alumni Association yesterday. He was introduced to the members by Dl'. Peter I. Wold at the meeting which was pre:>ided ovel' by Leslie Schoolcraft '()8, pres- ident of the a·ssociation. Recent 'Movement to Abolish. Graduate Managership Ull· held Last Night Players Doubt Authodty- Say Action Unconstitutional, Detrimental to Progress Of the Organiza-tion The authority of the Student Tax Mr. PillsbUiy stated his reasons Committee was upheld last night why New Yotk St:lte >Jhould not when the Student Council declared adopt the b:ll which place,; a con- stitutional limit:.:ttion on the taxing ·that the recent action of !chat com- power of New Yolk communities mittee abolishing the office of grad- and cities. He showed how the lim- uatc manager for the Mountebanks lting· of the taxing pm> er to 2 per was constitutional. The validity of cent of real e. tate v .. tlue:o would re- this action had been questioned by duce the services that cities could the Mountebanks in a formal com- pel·form and how this reduction plaint tendered to the committee would mean a consequent curtail- which charged that the position ment of school services. had been abolished without ade- quate consideration of its consti- As guests of honor were the tutionality. principals of five schools; Elmer In response to this charge the 0. Hoffman of Nott Terrace, H. C. Tax Committee pointed out that the Stitcner of Burnt Hills-Ballston philosophy behind the whole tax Lake, B. P. Quenelle of Scotia, Ar- system is that the undergraduates thur Putnam of Van Antwet·p, and should have control of their activi· Earl Zimmer of Draper. ties and tha;t a co-ordinated system The Nott Terrace Octette sup- of finance and bookkeeping should plemented the program by singing be required of each activity. The a group of three se lectiuns. abolition of thP office of graduate ----0--- Students of Physics Hear G~ E. Expert Lecture Series Inaugurated This Morning by G. Kron, Man of Varied Career manager was not the result of per- sonal animosity, according to the committee, but only a step in the carrying out of a policy that holds no place for graduates in student activities similar to the :Moun te- banks. Committee Gives Reasons \We realize that the Mounte- banks value Mr. Enzer's opinions and judgments as Graduate Mana- ger,\ the Committee stated, \but it is our firm conviction that the stu- . dents should get experience in all Mr. _Gabnel Kron of the General pha.ses of dramatic work, including Electnc <?ompany dehvered the first • ~usmess management. Naturally it of a senes of four lectures this 1s not our position to say what the morning at the Physics Building. undergraduate structure of an or- His subject today was \The Appli- ganization shall be. Nor is it our cation of Ten.sor Analysis to position to state who will serve an Physics and Electrical Engineer- organization in an advisory capa- ing.\ city. There is no reason, therefore, His second lecture will be deliv- that Mr. Enzer's judgments should ered Thursday, and the last two be lost to the Mountebanks.'• will be given next Tuesday and In a thirteen page brief coverino- Thursday. t~e history of the case, the acc1.1s~ Award€'d Eelglan Prize bon~ of the Mountebanks, and a Mr. Kron was recently awarded de~atled defence, the Com.mittee a prize of 10,000 Belgian francs by pomted out tha~ t~e whole exist- the Belgian Institute of Electrical ence and functlonm~ of th Tax Engineers for a: paper on Non-Rie- Commltt.e~ ~nd co-ordmator of Stl;l- mannian Dynamics of Rotating dent actiVIties depended upon their Electrical Machinery as the most power to .regulate their system. significant recent contribution to :-ackmg thls power, the ·present tax electrical engineers. :;ystem would be worthless. Ever since he came to this coun- Draws Conclusions try from Hungary in 1921 Mr. Kron After carefully defining their has b'een busy making his· career a position, the committee drew the fun and active one. He entered the following conclusion: \We have University of Michigan then and based the constitutionality of out• graduated in 1924. The day after action upon those principles under- commencement he was digging lying our committee, which. we ditches in front of the University deem vital and necessary to the c;3.mpus, and when he had earned achievement of the goal envisioned $28, he started on a hildng trip to by the .Student Cou:racil when It California and baclt. created this committee, that of a. He became a citizen of this coun- well-co-ordinated and effici~mt sys- try in 1927 and then started on a tem of accounting and finance re- two-year walking tour around the volving about the administration of world. He went across the United various campus activities. States to the South Sea Islands, ''Further, we have dealt vvitl! the Australia, China, Indo-China, Siam, individual and more or less l.ln- India, Arabia, Palestine, Egypt and founded complaints of the Mounte- up to Hungary to his home. banks in respect to om· action. We During the past th!'ee years Mr. have pointed out that the co:mmit- Kron has been connected with the tee meant no personal insult to Ml'. General Electric Company on the- Enzer or any of the members of oretical work relating to electrl=ll the Mountebanks. We have further- ma-chinery. more justified the !llbolition of the CALENDAR Today 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly, Memorial Chapel, Dr. Henry T. Moore of Skidmore College. 3:0()-5:00 p. m.-Capehart record- ings, Memorial Chapel. office of the Graduate Manager of I the Mountebanks on the basis of practical and obvious considera- tions. > Submit Response \Therefore we submit this brief as a careful and well-considered re- sponse to what amounts to the chal- lenge of the ve1y ex:istence of our committee. We feel that the Inter- 7:30 p. m. -French Club ing, Silliman Hall. Tomon·ow meet- pretation of that provision of our constitution quoted by the Mounte- banks in attempting to show the illegality of our proposal more or less depends upon the decision of the Student Council as to whether the Tax Committee definitely has far-reaching discretionary po-wers or is merely a glorified accounting committee. 10:00 a. m - Daily Assembly, Memorial Chapel, Robert C. North '36. Thursday 10:00 a. m. - Daily Assembly, Memorial Chapel, Dr. George H. Danton, professor of Ger· man. Fl'iday 10:00 a. m. __:_ Daily Memorial Chapel, A. Tidmarsh. Assembly, Dr. Elmer Carroll States Vie-ws Interviewed late last night, Di- rector Edward L. Carroll made tbe following statement: \When I first knew the Mounte- banlts from 1923 to 27, before col· (Continued on Page 4o)

r; Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1935 most boring classes in o1·der to mal\:e better h M • ·1 I I!' II use of their time, are now compelled to at- . I n t . . ·. e .· . a I · .. : . . Now Showing tend, there will he more whispers about \dead wood\ and a demand for more c<H1liJe-· 1 !;;===========================~ \:Bathtub\ De Mille at Proctor's .---------------------~.tent lecturers, Editor, In the Mail with his team and be liked by them, \The Crusaders~· is a typical De- : Concordiensis, Silliman Hall A good coach with a good team Mille prod·uct. From which you · .Union .college can do more in bringing favorable may ·gather tha:t it is spectacle, \A Causa Persa l'arole !lssai~' FOUNDED 1877 :Dear Sir: November 30, 1935 publicity, can do more in attmct- heroics, and romantic Jove all put 1935 Member 1936 lbsociated Colle5iate Press Distributor of \SCARE GRADES\ 1 might have known what kind of a sheet the Concordy was when they accepted my stuff, but please, \ThlS. ·htlrts me more than it does \CHI dear kind Editor, after this, will ing desirable fi'eshmen than all the together with the largest budget speeches of our good president. .A possible. good coach with a good team Wlll H is most interesting that this get the backing of the student body .picture .should follow \Mutiny on and thus will bring forth a new the Bounty\ so closely. The oppor- college spirit lasting long after the turtity for comparison is not to be final home game. slighted. Both pictures were costly Collee>iate Die>est -' you print what I write the way I said the professe>r as he gave the thil·d g1·~1de write it? Heaven knows it's bad enough to begin with without your tiult! aull cxclUtilVe ualloual advetlbiug revt:esenlall vc::; man a flat 60. malting it worse. Gentlemen of Union, Jet us band to znake, which fact was very as- together in a drive for a new deal . tentatiously displayed by tlte De- in football at Union College. Mille picture while \Mutiny\ was :-.<A'l'!V:-<AL AlJVElt'l'l::il:-.<U SEfi\'ICI•:, 1uc. ·12U .\ludbo 11 A V<!IIUe To judg-e from the howls which arose when * * * I see in the Concordy of Novem- notable .for its restraint from lav- A. Rooter. ish exhibition .of how two million New Yut·k City l~ht .. ·agu - Uu~tun .. Sau 1 1 'Ullll'i!:)l0 - Lu:s Augeh:~ l'ut tlanll - :Seal tl<! marks for the first quarter were distributed, ber 26, that the Bugs Bldg. i~> de- a lar·2·e pot·tion of the student body felt scribed as th€ \Boology Hall.\' I ~ knew most of the fellows felt this dolla1·s could be spent on a film. To the Editor: rhe running time of \The Cru- Why all this continued yapping $ades\ is standard, that is about in the Concordy against frater- one and a. quarter hours. \Mutiny Tile official newspaper of the stutlenlo; of Union College. Published Tue::;days ami Flidays throughout the college year, except dudng ClHistmati and spt·ing rece::;ses. themselves on the I'eceiving end of such pa- way toward it but I didn't think t ernal benevolence. And most of the students they'd go so far as to print their on the Bounty\ was longer and nities? They sometimes sound sus- .was criticized on that score. How- piciously to me like the ravings of ever, the latter was not as tedious men who didn't get bids. To zaise opinions. .Publication Office, The Gazette Pres::;, 334 State ~t., ::lchenectady, N. Y., 'l'elepllone 4-4141 concerned did not even credit the professor fo1· his good intensions . * * * Frc.m the· town news: Trucli, Driver, Student Killed Must have been some smash up. * * * \!\Im·e Swamp Land to be Re- an issue over such a trivial mattet : as \The Crusades'' was in too many spots. DeMille has run to as the deliverance of marks sounds the orthodox spectacle film and somewhat childish. I do not believe Enteted at the Schenectady Post Office as Becond Class Mail Mattet· SubHcdption price l<,ive cents a copy; $3.00 a yea1 ~~~~ivered anywhere in the Unilell_ States. The faculty of the field of modem lan- guag-es in particular, several of them new- comers to the college family, have already g·ained the reputation for giving \scare claimed,\ says a headline. Obvi- ously the idea is gaining gt·ound. that the marks of the fraternities 'Mutiny\ though it employed many are delivered to them because of actors was not spectacle at all. any desire to slight the non-frat This matter of individual per- men. As I understand it, this is ·for.ro.ances is a farce in a DeMille merely an established custom- picture. For one thing he always merely a gesture of com tesy. pulls that very nasty trick of ne- * * * Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, '1:_0~33_. __ Senior I3oard Van Vechten 'l'rumbull ........ Edilut-in-Chief Udla l'hi lluu:.;e-4-U645 grades.\ \Scare g-rades\ are not to be confused with the ordinary, g·arden variety of \sti g-rades. To say that a professor is a stiff grader means that his course is fairly diffi- cult and his standards exacting. But when a professor delibentely marks the morale of the class, or for any other nebulous, subjec- \Throwing dirt into the eyes of a hold-up man, if accomplished swiftly,\ a self-defense expert tells us, \is an almost certain means of turning Lhe tables . . . The quick- ness of the sand deceives the guy. Other students at odd times are glecting to list the names of the heard to rant and rave a:bout the characters and merely puts a title fact that everything is controlled on of the actors .Jn the picture. The by the fraternities. Doubtless this best joh in the whole thi:ng was is true-and why not? The frater- done by the actor of the part of nity men are far in the majority of Saladin. This I believe wa.s Mt·. students. A.ny history book will Ian Kieth who has long enjoyed a show that majorities control gov- very high reputation. The whole ernments, so why shouldn't they be cast seemed to be doing a tongue at the helm in colleges? And fur- in the cheek job. Harry Wilcoxson thermore, if they did not have such was a vhile Richard. His queen, a big majority they would not be Loretta Young, was good to look at. in control. George Barbier and Alan Hale do- John Anderson ................ Managing Editor !'so lh>sJluu lluu•e-4-o71U Albert H. Stevenson .•..•.•.... Spo ll:o ~ditot· l'si L:pstlou Huuse--1-bllU Hobert C. North ........•........ News ~ditor lJclla U!ttiiluu House-4·7~2:J Wallace '1'. Foote ..•..•........ Ifeature Editor Alvha Udta l'lu llou•e-4ti7::~ Daniel B. Wahl. •..•..•..• Circulation Manager KapJJa :-.<u lluu•o-4-73~1 Robert 0. Nelson .......... Business Manager ___ :.:K:::appa .\liJh<t Lodge-·!-~ 1~2 Junior Boara-- ____ _ Al!iSO(.!IA'l'E EDITOUS Milton Bedell Richard Pa::;senger Ralph Cohen Fwd Feldman !fenton Gage Carlton Ganison ----- - Sopll.omore Board Assistant Editors J. Bundgus R. Doig W. Dean H. Enzer H. Hat•tmann C. Trahrnan M. :Muroff C. Honikel R. Ferguson Issue Editor ............. Fenton A. Gage Assistant Issue Editors H. Enzer C. l\Imoff Tuesday, December 24, 1935 A LONG S'l'EP BACKWARD The new absence rules passed by the cm·- riculum committee of the faculty represent a long step backward in Union's educational policy. tive reason,-that is a \scare grade.\ But the rationalizations which a1·e ad- vanced in support of \scare grades\ are ab- surd and ridiculous. Some professors just \don't believe in g·iving any first grades until the final 1·eport.\ Others think it's nice to mm~k students low at first so they can show some \improvement\ later on. Another fav- orite reason (not expressed in the class- room) is to \take the .starch out of the ft·eshmen.\ If it hurts the professorial conscience to give hig-h n'larks, let the whole course be made so stiff that no student can get them. Why this hypocrisy of hour tests and graded clas.s work, if the average is arbitrarily re- duced? Professors, make your courses tough if you wish, but spm·e us your good inten- tions! MODERN WITCH HUNTERS The present system \vas achieved after Branding as \lynchers of ideas' 'all those long struggle to break away from high- v.:ho try to stifle education by statute, Presi- school methods of teaching. It is a comfort- dent Fox denounced the current attempts to able compromise between an ideal, adult force public school children ino 100 per cent student-teacher relationship, with the em- American molds, in an address before the phasis on leaming, and the copy book method National Council for the Social Studies in of fulfilling the mechanical requirements New York City last week. and jumping academic hurdles. Under the He supported the natural, democ1·atic present system all students with a second \court of good s-ense\ as the final c1·iterion grade average or better, are exempt from at- in the perpetual battle of ideas. Ideas can- tendance requirements, and others are al-- not be contl·olled by law. Their attempted lowed a liberal number of bolts before the suppression br well-meaning fanatics, dean's office can take disciplinal'y measm·es. whether patriotic or relig-ious, only fot·ces The new rules which will go into effect their growth. \Th.ere are those who think next year put the whole matter of attendance they can lynch an idea with a suddea sta- requirements in the hands of the individual tute,\ said Dr. Fox; \but you can't violently professor. Ostensibly, the college expects at- smother ideas. They escape or exp1ode in tendance at all classes. Actually, the profes- revolutions. The only way to defeat an. idea sor can be as stl'ing-ent or as lax as he de- is to dissolve it with a better idea. The only sires. The liberal teachers will continue their way to beat a b-ook is to write a better bo()k.\ pres.ent attitude to their students: \class The modem witch hunters neve1· '\trust lectures and redtations are for your eon- the court of general g-ood sense; they will venience; you pay for them; take them or never wait fot· a full and fair trial of an idea leave them.\ and the mathematically-minded before that tribunal.\ martinets will have full opportunity to do A typical example of this hysterical kind their worst: \you cannot leam the content of terrorism is seen in the Washington, D. C. of my course without attending all the lee- public schools. A recent federal statute re- tures; therefore, if you bolt y{)U must neces- quires all teachers in the nation's capital to sarily flunk.\ Given these premises, they are take monthly oaths not t() mention or teach completely in the rig-ht, but such a course is communism or other subve1·sive politiealdoc- not a course ()f study. It is, by implied defi- trines. By such measures the defende1·s of nition, ~ certain number of hours spent in the faith hope to keep the faith intact. But a certam classroom. because of their r.efusal to meet the issues How much of a change the new rules will presented by opposing political dogmas, and bring about remains to be seen. It will come by trying to smother their expression, in not all at once, but sl<fwly. And its possibil- such innocuous forms as classroom d.iscus- ities for progressive abuse are tremendous. sion, they enhance the outcast ideas :with If a few men who have formed the habit all the aura of forbidden fruit. Students with of sleeping Ol' playing bridg·e when they inquiring minds, whose influence will count should be in class are obliged to change theil· in the future, are attracted to the persecuted habits, what they will get from the lectures doctrine much more effectively by such is a moot question. And perhaps, if a few of methods than by the most rabid sca..:p-box the real studeuts who customarily bolt their orator. :r: * * True to form: The prizefighter who married a girl wno was a knoc,kout. • • • Our I'lodern Version: Little Jack Homer Stood on the corner V.'earing his Christmas tie. He stuclt out his thumb And a ride tried to bum, But the traffic kept passing him by. * * * We understand that environment, ~nd standards of living have much to do with one's appearance. Cir- cumstances alter faces, I pre$ume. * * * \Rice is exported from Japan on a large scale,\ I read. Gosh, they must lose money that way. Think how much cheaper bags or boxes would ·be. * * * Thanks, F. H., for your boots- pardon me-boost. I wasn't quite sure, to tell the truth, which word I should use there. Were you 'fore me or behind me? * * * \Proper rest is never obtained if a person sleeps in his clothes\ pro- claims an M.D .... No wonder I'm always tired after a Mountebank's production. * * * From the Want-Ads: Wanted, Ro()m and .board, reasonable. Some people want everything. * * * Also: Wanted- One family with fireplace. Running water .... May- be I'm wrong. * * * Po me When turkeys get it in the neck, Lou must have dough to pay the check. * * • The Ethiopian situation is dark, It is far better that our interests ing comedy relief did that. Joseph be controlled by fraternity men Schildkraut was typical a:nd ade- than by a few communistically-in- quate a.s a stock villian. On the clined imber:iles (such as are found whole this was a waste of good tal- in N. Y. City colleges)-of which I ents. hear there are only a few at Union. The question naturally arises of I feel somehow more qualified to· whether or not to see this picture. write on this subject than some be-. I will not say yes or no. I am sure cause I have an outsider's view- that some of the raw and unsophis- point. ticated portions of the <lialogue I am a transfer from another col- and action will make you laugh lege, and a non-fraternity man at right out loud at the wrong places Union-and so I claim a neutral in the picture. Still it would be a angle on the question. And just as shame for anyone to miss the bat- an afterthought to those who dis- tle which broke the siege <If Acre. like fraternities-just what kind of With people being killed, burned, a place would this be WITHOUT drowned, with arrows, fireballs fraternities? and spears flying, with the whole GERARD VAN BEUREN gigantic picture of conflict parad- ---10--- NOTES ON OUR CON TEMPORARIES Blind Although blind for 25 years, Perry Hale, Yale All-American in 1900, hasn't missed a game since the day the doctor told him he never would see again. .. * * First First recipient of Columbia Uni- versity's bronze lion award is Dr. Harold C. Urey, professor of chem- istry and Nobel prize winner for the discovery of heavy water. ing before you, comes your recom- pense for sitting through the rest of the piece while DeMille and his millions garble history terrifically in order that Richard's love for Berengaria may motivate the whole thing. The American public has long been insulted by being pandered to on a fourteen mentality level. \The Crusades\ evidently tried to please the borderline cases- No bet- ter proof of its child intellect ap- peal is extant than the behaviour of the Sunday audience at Proc- tor's. Therefore to Mr. Demille and his works one long vibratiog, wet, juicy, disgusting, downright vulgar RA.SPBERRY! J. B. D. the American Crisis is at hand, business is slow, marks are terrible radio programs are awful, this col~ · umn is worse. HOME FOR THE And so too •bad, Yours, I'm beginning to ·believe. G. P. S.-Here's one for Winchcll- '\'Vhat blonde would not give what Psi U one single break the other night? • * • A certain B. S. in Physics '37 swears to the world he has never given a thought to love. We know for a fact that he has missed seeing a cet·tain red-head only about a dozen night in the past two years. No other fellows can even dance with her, and when we walked in on them at a certain dance a few nights ago he and she were stand- ing in the center of the floor-the orchestra going at full •blast-just gazing into each other's eyes. Could I haYe the wrong idea? To the Editor: Two years ago, after a rather drastic football schedule The Con- cordiensis advocated assistant coaches to help head Coach Hat- fie!~. After two years it is again desll'able to do something to in- crease the standards of Union's football teams. First of all, it is evident that the new tightening down of eligibility requirements is in line with Presi- dent Fox's policy of increasing the scholarship of the college. Then comes the problem of ma- terial. This year, in spite of high ineligible lists, there was at least enough good material for one team. The final thing which makes or breaks a football team is its coach. Let me point out a few require- ments of a good coach. 1. He must have sufficient knowl- edge of football to design good plays th~t his team ca11 use. 2. He must be able to teach these plays so that they will work. 3. He must be able to pick men for their . best ability to play cer- tain positions. 4. He must be able to inspire his men to a spirit of good sportsman· ship, team play, and fight.· 5. He mus~ be able to co·operate CHRISTMAS do HOLIDAY? WA kmlk.1fWIL ~ QUICKLY lbiU{ ECONOMICALLY· Don't spoil the thrill of getting home again by worrying about the shipment of your baggage. Solve the problem by leaving everything to Railway Express. We will call for your trunks, baggage and personal belongings and send thew home on fast passenger trains through to destination. You can take your train home with peace of mind-knowing that your baggage will be there quickly and safely. Railway Express service is a decided economy in expense, too. Alter vacation, send your baggage back the same wa7J. We give a receipt on pick-up and take a receipt on de- livery ... double proof of swift, sure handling. For service or information merely call or telephone Cor. WALL 8c L:IBERTY STS. 'PHONE 4-5612 DEPOT OFFICE: N.Y. C. STATION 'PHONE 4-8512 SOHENECTADY, N, Y. RAILWAY EXPRESS .AGENCY, INC, NATION -WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE TUl-lE IN ON THE RAILWAY EXPRESS NEWS PARADE Every week from the loflowinu stations: WEE! • WOR 0 WHIC • WLS • KWK ., WDSU o WFAA WGST • KYA • .K::NX • KSTP • KOMO • WBAL • KOIL Watch for local announcements I . ! First Will Va1·sity 1 Dtill A~ Coach Just how basketball t' pect to go roinent cam: after their played Dece Vermont an Nels Nitchr: tha:t won t only two o From that carried on ther replac• Milano and Ray McDov S'emerad, a all passed c To replace come up .fr :freshman s bielski, G Smith, Ge< Duchsherez wold, last swimming Brandow, : making stl positions. :E varsity res Accordin Nitchman bielski as and Prizn: Smith a:t c tentative. : up so we: probably f ice. His h score don: sical shor Van Wa year, has guard wh will be us mate, is a polish of to this pa best of t will prol: The forw ski, and being hea threats. is perba] trio, shoe well witl:: and Smi1 tage in been lab and cons fered. In scri team cor V. Smith first fiv proveme calibre 'i whether that it l week ofj defense Vermon1 ed to us• hopes tc ing atta Until against will be strengtl heads-u sional ' may go ditionec speed; ience I such t. and Ci a moot TheJ Podbie: tus ha• has bol former gerous range onlyw the b! man v sessioi The the 1 Only c lost f· array. ual n I The sente• Physi icaJ • to rt tweet at th ~93 Karr Mitcl B. R J. s. B. V: 19~ In Any pect the the

:»ctor's cal De- ~h you ectacle, all put budget at this :iny on oppor- t to be ~ costly rery os- he De- y\ was :>m lav- million a film. Le Cru- ; about 'Mutiny ·er and ;, How- tedious in too run to Lm and d many all. .al per- DeMille always : of ne- of the ; a title :lre. The .ng was part of vas Mr. Ljoyed a ~ whole tongue 'llcoxson ; g_ueen, look at. :::!ale do- Joseph :nd ade- On the ~ood tal- Lrises of picture. am sure .nsophis- dialogue u laugh g places .1ld be a the bat- <>f Acre. burned, fir-eballs te whole 1: pararl- t' recom- the rest and his t\rifically love for 3.te the 1as long ;>andered .ty level. tried to -No bet- ~llect ap- ehaviour at Proc- and his ng, wet, 1t vulgar r.B.D. I r rl LY· lg Jy or 1d n. :y. e- THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1.935 First Two Basketball Games Will Set Note For .Season Side :Lines :By ALBERT H. STEVENSON During the ca:lrn before Union's basketbal-l, hockey, swimming, and Varsity Fh·st String Men I . I fencing teams get into action with otber colleges it might be well to Dl'ill Assiduously With . INTRANURAL ATHLETICS . take a glimpse at some of the prospects for the winter season. Restrain- Coach. .for Ve1·mont . · ing ourselves this week to the major sport, baslcetball, all indications Just how far the Union College basketball team can reasona-bly ex- pect to go during the -already im- minent campaign will be discovered after their first two· ga-mes to be played December 13 and 14 against Vermont and Rochester. Last year- Nels Nitchman produced a quintet that won twelve games and lost only two on a difficult schedule From that team of six men who carried on practically without fur- ther replacement two--Captain Joe Milano and Van Waldron-remain. Ray McDowell, Jack Moffett, Ralpr. Semerad, and Jiggs Rotunda have all passed down the sheepskin traiL To replace them, five men. hav( come up .from the puissant 1934-3[ freshman squad. They are Ted Pod- bielski, Grant Smith, Vince!lt Smith, George Doyle, and Phillip Duchsherer. In addition, Guy Gris- wold, last winter captain of the swimming team, Mike Priznar, Bill Bra>hdow, and Ken Brown are all. making strong bids for first tearr. positions. Bt•andow and Brown werP varsity reserves last season. First String According to present plans, N el~ Nitchman will use Milano and Pod- bielski as forwat·ds, with Waldron and Priznar at guards, and Grant Smith a:t center. This is still merely tentative. Billy Brandow has shown up so well thus far that he will probably see a great deal of serv- ice. His heady play and ability tc score do ·much to overcome his phy- sical shortcomings. Van Waldron, the pivot man last year, has been shifted back tc guard where his defensive talents will be useful. Priznar, his running mate, is a good shot, but lacks the polish of a high grade guard. Nex:t to this pair, Griswold has been the best of the defense men, and he will probably appear frequently. The forwa}'ds, Milano and Podbiel- ski, and Grant Smith, center, are being heavily counted on as scoring threats. Podbielski, the sophomore, is perhaps the best shot of this trio, shooting and passing equally well with either hand, but Milano and Smith have a decided advan- tage in height. Captain Joe has been laboring with a hea:vy cold, and consequently his play has suf- fered. Varsity vs. Greens In scrimmages against a \green\ team composed of Brandow, Doyle, V. Smith, Griswold, and Brown, the first five has shown steady im- provement. Competition of higher calibre will undoubtedly determine whether it has the offensive power that it has flashed at times. Next week offensive play against a zone defense will be stressed as both Vermont and Rochseter are expect- ed to use tP!s system, and Nitchman hopes to develop a fast, short pass- ing attack that will penetrate it. Until the Garnet has stacked up against some stiff opposition, it will be difficult to judge its real strength. If it continues to play heads-up ball, and rectifies occa- sional defensive lapse!>, the team may go places. It is splendidly con- ditioned, has the height and the speed; whether it has the exper- ience necessary to move against such top-rate teams as Columbia and City College of New York is a moot question. • • • The fortunate eligibility (Jf Teddy Podbielski, after his scholastic sta- tus had been somewhat uncertain, has bolstered the attack no end. The former Mont Pleasant flash is dan- gerous whenever he gets within range of the cords. Apparently his Only weakness is a tendency to play the ball Instead of watching his man when the opposition has pos- session of the ball. .... The opener against Vermont on the 13th should be a close one. Only one man, Captain Palmer, was lost from the 1934-35 Mountaineer array. They figure to have their us- ual rugged type of team. Physical Examination The following men have not pre- sented themselves to the College Physician for their required phy.$- ical examination. They are urged to report to the gymnasium be- tween the hours of 4 p. m. to 6 p. m. at their earliest convenience. 1939-J. Boychuk, C. Brown, A. Karr, J. S. Knowlsoh, R. Lewis, J. Mitchell, T. Pritchard, G. F. Ralph, B. Rathbun, W. Rehberg, R. Siegel, J. S. Stewart, K. B. Vandemark, F. B. Vanderbilt. 1937-T •. r. Reilly, G. Witbeck. Indoor Track Indoor track began yesterday. Anyone who is interested is ex- pected to report to Coach Ketz on the board track from 2 to 4;30 in the afternoon. Boxing-Wrestling point to annther outstanding year on t·he court for the Garnet quintet Boxing and Wrestling a.s set. despite the \suicide schedule\ which must be faced. Coach Nels Nitch- forth undei:' the new intramural· man's biggest problem is in the gumd department, and if he can de- sports program. .got under way yes-: velop a pair of capable goal defenders to replace last yeal\s combin- terday. Coach W-ilford ·Ketz has ation of Johnnie M<>ffett and Ralph :Semel'ad, Union should be on the charge of the matmen with Ed 1 d f 11 h Fitz teaching the ring prospects.· ong en ° most a t e scores. Sessions -will be held every day ex- cept Saturday and Sunday, with wrestling scheduled fl'Om 4: 30 to 5:30 and ·boxing between five and six. These sports .are intramural and· as such are open to the average boy who has done little or no box- ing and wrestling. Experience, however, in either of the sports will not hinder any person from taking 11p the sport. The pt·ogram has been started with elementary . details with the aim of gradually advancing in technique and ability throughout the year. The training period will he top- ped off -with a show which will be held during the first week in March. 'l'he fundamental idea be- hind the classes is to give those students who want to learn some- thing about the art of self defense an opportunity to do so. :Foul Shooting The basketball foul shooting con- test will be held during the entire month of January. Participants • nay call at the gym any morning between 10:30 and 12:15 for their turn. Team Managers The team manager.s of the fol- lowing fraternities are asked to get the basketball notices which deal with the .physical exams from their boxes in the gym: Beta Theta Pi, Delta Chi, Phi Gamma Delta, Neutrals, Theta Delta Chi, Psi Upsilon. I'h.ysi<lal Exams All members who expect to take part in boxing, wrestling or the in- tramural basketball contests are· required to have a physical exam- ination. The idea is to prevent any- one who bas become physically un- fit, since his freshman year, to talte part in the events. Freshman who nave not been examined be- fore will be expected to be exam- ined also. Swimming Meet Won By Delta Phi Fraternity Delta Phi, capturing places in a:ll but two events in the swimming meet last week, was the winner of the competition, scoring 60 addi- tional points. Phi Delta Theta was second, making almost 50, while Psi Upsilon was third with 35. The number of actual points scored in the contest, counting first place as five, second as four, and so on thro\lgh five pla:ces, is averaged by Direc-tors Arthur C. Lawrence and Wilford H. Ketz on the basis of the total number of points made. Thus each point scored Is multiplied by the mean number derived, in this case a little over 2.5. The scores in the swimming meet are: 'llotal l'ts. Add. Parti't'n Scored Pts. Pts. Delta Phi .•... 23 60.000 100.000 Phi Del Theta 19 4S.571 80.571 Psi Upsllon ... 13% 3u.221 75.221 Sigroa Chi ..... 10 2€.000 €6.090 ICa:ppa Sigma .. 61,2 18.958 56.958 Alph!\ J)el Phi . 6 15.654 55.654 Delta Upsilon . 5 13.045 53.045 Chi Psi ....... 4 10.436 50.436 Kappa Nu ..... 4 10.436 50.436 Kappa Alpha .. 4 10.436 50.43'6 Theta Nu Ep. . 4 10.436 50.436 Phi Sigma Del . 3 7.827 47.827 Sig:rna. Phi .... 3 7.827 47.827 Larn. Chi Alpha 0 .000 40.000 Neu.trals ....... () .000 40.000 Phi Gain Del . . () .000 40.000 Phi Sig Kappa () .000 40.000 Alpha. Phi Del 0 .000 40.000 Beta \T~eta: Pi 11 28.699 38.699 North College . 4 10.436 10.436 Present Standings of Teams Si~a Chi .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . 431.159 Chi Psi .. .. . .. .. . .. . .. . .. .. 339.346 Psi Upsilon ................ 338.720 Alpha Delta Phi ...•....... 337.123 Sigma Phi . . . . • .. .. • . . . . .. . 333.263 Pb.i Deli.a Theta . . . • . . . . . . . 325.505 Phi Garnma Delta • • . . . . . . . 308.182 Beta Theta Pi • . . .. . . . . . . • . 304.944 Neutrnls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288.998 Phi Sigma Delta. . . . . . . . . . . 288.341 Nortll College . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279.601 D•elta Phi . . . .. .. .. . .. . . . . . . 259.500 Kappa Nu . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 251.269 Kappa Sigma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241.329 Delta Upsilon ..•........... 235.044 Alpha Phi Delta . . . . . . . . . . 216.348 T'heta Nu. Epsilon . . . . . . . . . 188.769 South College • . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115.000 Kappa Alpha •... ; • . . . . . .. . 100.346 Phi Sigma Kappa . . . . . . . . . . 86.080 t.anbda Chi Alpha . . . . . . . . 70.000 Theta. Delta Chi . . • . . • • • • . • 50.000 Peltc. Chi •• , ...... ., • .. • .. • 50,000 Van Waldron 1vho has done some flae work in the c!'ntei· posit-ion for the past two yea.rs, will probably be sllifted to hold down one of the guard berths. He is tall and alert, liUd with his ll>ng arms should bt> able to brealt up nm.n:v of t11~ opp.onents' defensive drh·es. Van's run- ning mate h11S not been definitely chosen as yet although Mike lPiiznar looks like the first choice out of four p-ossible candidates. Bill Bran- dow, who bas been the ·most consistent point scorer in the scrimmages so fa1•, Quy Grisw()hJ, playing his first; year on the va:I·sity squad, and Vince Smith, a member of lll.St yellr's strong frosh quintet, a1·e the other able candidates :for -the guard post and these men will no doubt see plenty of action throughout tlte season. Tall, rangy Grant Smith, spectacular f-rosh center last winter, wiii hold forth in his usual position, alth.ough he will also alternate with Waldt'on at guard. Smith's excellent play under the basket .. should give the quintet added scoring strength over laSJt year's five, and his :;terling defensive game should give the team more strength in that depart- ment. The forward berths will be ably cared for with Captain Joe Milano sinking them ft•om all angles In his right post and Ted Pod- bielski, anothev sophomore who starred with the frosh last yeat•, sink- ing the close ones ft,om the other side of the floor. These last two- posi- tions are pmctically sewed up, and barring the tough breaks of the game, the basketeeFs should have the best season a Garnet team has had in many ya.r's. .------------, Twenty Candidates Report Intramural Basketball . For First Hockey Practice Leagues With the tinge of winter once The intramural basketball tourn- again in the air, Coach Art Law- ament was officially opened last renee has called the first hockey night when the Alpha Phi Delta: practice, to be held this afternoon, fraternity defeated.Sigma Chi, lead- .. probably on the football field. There ers in the intramural contests thus can naturally be no strenuous play- far, 43 to 12. The Phi Sigma Deltas, ing, since the main qualification, assisted in the festivities of the, the rink, is as yet lacking, but the opening night by swamping the Chi; boys can get the \feel\ of the puck, Psis, second of the leaders, 28 to. once more, and can sharpen up 10. their shooting eyes by tossing the Outstanding :for the victors of the· hard rubber disk at various marks. first match was Hart-y Mana, di- Art may even send the squad minutive Alpha Phi Delt, who pop- around the track for a few laps, ped eight field goa:ls to lead the getting them into condition for this, scoring for the evening. He was one of the toughest of all sports. seconded by M:ike Gold of the Phi Unless the new hockey rink, Sigma Delts who made five bas- which has pL·oven to be a- dismal kets. failure as a hockey rink so far, Results: shows a tendency to hold water this Chi Psi (10) G F 1' year, the team will practice and play all games at the Mohawk Countl-y Club, scene of activities for the past few seasons. The squad will ta:ke to the ice at the first possible opportunity, which should be in a very short time, de- pending of course, on the weathet man. Stewart, f ..•.. _ ..•.. - ..... 1 0 2 Marshall, f .•..•••••••••••. 1 I) 2 Byrne, c ....•..•........... {) I) 0 Kyle, g ........•........... 0 0 0 Draper, g .................. 0 0 0 Murphy, g .....•........... 3 I) ·6 Totals ..•..•.............. 5 0 10 l'hi Sigma Delta (28) G F P Larg.e Group Gold, f .................... 5 0 10 A goodly sized group of candi- Dwore, f ................... 1 0 2 dates repoL·ted last week to Law- Salad, f .................... 3 0 ·I> renee, who is spending his first Siegel, f .................... 0 0 0 year as hockey coach of both var- Dworsky, c ................ 1 0 2 sity and frosh teams. Included were Saiewitz;, g ...•............ 1 0 2 four lettermen, Captain Phil Little, Friedman, g ...•............ 0 0 0 Bob Warner, Hugo Bergman and Schultz, g .. _ .. _ .. _ ......... & 0 6 Ken Tompkins, a:nd a strong dele- Totals ....•.............. 14 0 28 · gation from last year's freshman * Sigma Chi (12) G F P McGee, f ..•............... l 0 2 Mains, f ................... 1 2 4 Burgess, c ................. 0 0 0 Engesser, g ............... 3 0 6 Stewart, g ................. 0 0 0 Reinhardt, g ............... 0 0 {) Tots:ls .................... 5 2 12 Alplla Phi Delta (43) G F F Pipito, f .................... 1 1 3 Marra, f ................... 8 0 16 MarceJla, c ................ 2 0 4 J. Marotta,. g ............. a 1 7 V. Martin, g ............... 3 2 8 E. Cammarota, g .......... 0 1 1 Totals ................... 19 5 43 .. * * SCHEDULE Tonig.bt 7:30 Delta Upsilon vs. Kappa Al- pha. 8:30 Lambda Chi Alpha vs. Phi Delta, Theta. Tomorrow 7:30 Delta Chi vs. Theta Nu Ep- silon. 8:30 Delta Phi vs. North College. A. A. U. Convention Coach Wilford H. Ketz will leave Thursday for the A. A. U. Conven- tion in Ne-w York City. A member of the National Track and Field Committee, Ketz will remain in New York until Sunday. Although not endowed -with authority to send or refuse to send an Olympic Team, it is expected tha.t the .ques- tion will ari>se. Failure of the A.. A. U. to co-operate with the Olym- pic committee would be a serious handicap to the latter body. ---0·--- C()rrections Kappa Alpha will play Lambda Chi Alpha on Jan. 7 instead of Jan, 28, and in the National Leag-ue, Al- pha Phi Delta. will play Chi Psi on Jan. 28 IJllltead of Jan. 7. team, namely, Hawley, Wold, Brey- maier, and Arundel, who will all be seeking varsity berths in time for the first game, Middlebury, on Jan- uary 8. Those reporting last week were Emans, Becker, Shepard, Bond, Hardinar, Orton, Van Beuren, Phil- lips, Peck, Merrima:n, Kennedy, Arundel, Wold, Hawley, Breymaier, Tompkins, Bergman, Warner and Little. The frosh squad includes, Cole- man, Smith, Juracka, Vanderbilt, Clay, Welles, Paul, Annese, Knight, O'Connor, Miller, Mulcare, Kyle, Borden and Owens. ---,0•--- Swimming Practice Ed Fitz will have charge of swimming practice which began yesterday, from 4 to 5 in the aft- ernoon. After this time practice will be in the hands of Coach Bill Leonard. FOUNTAIN PENS Parker Waterman Wahl Sheaffer PENS REPAIRED LYON'S 236 State St. Tel. 4·8647 For House Linen Sertlce PHONE 4:-3166 American Coat. Apron & Laundry Co. 1030 Barrett St. lntramurals Draw Half Student Body Sigma. Chi Retains Substan-- tial Lead Over Chi Psi And Psi Upsilon Although only two of the intra- mural events under the revised ath- letic program have been carried out, the succe::;s of the new system. has been adequately proved. Of the. 750 undergraduates in the college this fall, 489 have taken pat t in at least one of the events sponsored by the athletic depm tment. Sigma Chi, ;;till leading the 23 ft·aternity .and neutral organiza- tions, is followed b;r Chi Psi, Psi Upsilon, Alpha Delta Phi, Sigma Phi, Phl Delta Theta. Phi Gamma Delta, and Beta Theta Pi, all of whom are above 3CO points in the completed scm es to d·a.te. Basketball Underway The basketball competition, which started last night, will be the fifth of the 20 different evet; ts which are being conducted under the revised system. Every g10up on the cam- pus has been l'epre.;ented, with 20. fraternities, two dormitories, and the Neutral group composing the teams. in the contests. Even the facuily has been en- couraged to palticipate in some form of athletic recreation. About 25 of the 80 members play handball, tennis, indoor baseball, and horse- shoes. The facility gr oup:s may play each other as well as the student teams, but the resu:ts are not counted in the sco;·ing fo.- the In- tramural Participot!on T1 ophy . In speaking of the nfwiy adopted intramu-ral pr og. am, Professor J. Harold Wittner, director of athle- tics, said recently: \Athletics by proxy is a thing of the past. While it is expected that suppol't of inter- collegiate athletics will be main- tained with the enthusiasm of days past, the further step of encour- aging every student to participate Is also taken, for the benefit of health and as a preparation for life after graduation. The intramur a! sports are for the most part plan- ned to be such that they may be played through one's whole life. \The new program 'democratizes' sports at Union College. Through the 20 sports offered, an opportun- ity is given each student to com- pete and enjoy the social recreation in athletics. More equipment and expert instruction have increased the opportunities for satisfying the individual needs of students. Re- sults achieved thus far indicate that Dr. Day was correct in assum- ing that .increased participation in sports will mean better health and greater mental and social training for the student. ---o--- CONTROL Radio programs should be gov- ernment-controlled, in the opinion of college presidents t ecently poll- ed by the Federal Communications Commission. Interested i11 Schnzrctady luterested in [:NJON Maurice B. Graubart The Jay Street .Jeweler 166JAY STREET 1VIltcll and leu:eb·y Repairing a Specialty Three Swimming Test The following have not yet passed the required swimming cest. They are urged to report to the pool Attendant and do so at once. 1939 J. Amazon, W. Baker, Z Betle- jesk,i E. Burke, S. Burke, R. Bus- ha, J. Calllgeris, A. R. Carr, H. J. Clay, M. Collins, E. Coppola, B. Czech, T. Dennett, L. J. Dwyer, H. Faxon, M. Fuu·er, A. Garfinkle, N. Garnett, H. Grant, C. Graves, R. Hinckle, E. Houghton, H. Hum- phrey, J. Irish, J. Knowlson, B. KraUt:le, R. Lewis, M. Letko, W. Maines, R. Masterson, J. ·Maxwell, K. McLeod, J. Morrison, G. Morse, J. Mulcare, D. Mur.phy, F. Myers, J. Porter, C. Powell, G. Ralph, W. Rehberg, R. Seigel, R. Simmons, T. Stevenson, J. S. Stewart, C. Stickle, F. Stoughton, P. Teare, R. Terhune, D. Thompson, F. Van Dyke, W. Vv'aldron, J. Weiss, J. Woodwat·d. 1938 W. Coffey, J. Jordan, F. Micare, W. Moran, G. Otis, W. C. R0bbins, R. Royal, J. Scully, J. Swanker. 1937 S. R. Cohen, R. Rice, Z. Szczom- browksi. 1936 D. L. Engesser, R. M. Leith. SKI EQUIPMENT of the highest quality. CALL or SEE Bergsh·om - Dean - Symonds DELTA Ul'SILON-4-7922 JAMES E. DAY, Optician Prescriptions Filled or Duplicated General Repair Work 604 Union St., Cor. Banett St. 3 Blocks Below College Gate l'HONE 2-8464 Union College Week at THE TIE SHOP 403 STATE ST. 3,000 TIES TO SELECT FROM I Ties ......... 29c, 4 for $1.00 Ties ......... SSe, 2 for $1.00 Sox ......... 29c, 4 for $1.00 Sox ......... 35c, 3 for $1.00 Scarfs, all wool ........ $1.00 T rubenized Sl-!irts Solid White, Blue, Tan or Grey Striped or Figured PRICE RANGE $1.25 $1 :50 $1.65 $1.95 During Union this week aU College stu- dents will receive sip e cia I I 0% dis- count on purchases in dozen lots. UNION NICHT at the De Witt Clinton ALBANY FRIDAYt DECEMBER. 6 - Reservations Advisable No Cover Char9e

Four 'Car)}oll Discusses Council's Action Re porte.- Learns Jlacts Of College Heat, Light Mountebanks Need Permanent Manag-er for the Special Business of Theatre (Continued from Page 1) The underground pipe::; of the col- lege heaHng plant dec1ease the ef- ficiency a bout ten or fifteen per cent, but the loss is offclet by the fact that in a central heating plant cheaper fuel can be burned and in the long run the central plant is cheaper, according to informa- ' tion lea1'11ed by a Concordiensis re- porter who interviewed An thuny lege theatres ha:d begun to ex:pand, a member of the faculty, Profes- sor Howard Opdyke, acted as treas- urer, performing many functions now ex.ercised by the graduate manager. After his death sll!dent managers essayed to carry on his: work. VVhen I returned to college as ditector of the Mountebanks, it became ::;peedily apparent that the bu::>mess organization of the society at the time of the erection of the theatre would ::;oon ·become too complicated for any undergraduate manager, changed each year, to handle without the support and ad- vice of a mature mind. Now as the .Mountebank theatre developed and ctystalized its organization, another !act became clear, that not. only ::;nuuld a continuing manager ad- vise the student manager but that he should be acquainted with the business of a theatre which is pe- culiar to itself and which has few pomts in common with managing a college glee club or a college pub- licatiOn. I realize that it is hard fo1 those who ate not workers in the theatte to understand what thb means and therefore I can only ex- press my profound regret in the ac- tion talten by the Tax. Committee and approved by the Student Coun- cil, and to urge my firm conviction that this proceeding returns the Mountebanks to a status quo which pr-evailed in 1929. a status quo which had to be forsaken in orde1 to ct-eate the presPnt dt>velopment of the theatte- \The brief which was prepared by tile Ta.x Cumtuittcc un \\\<•dne day, tu be lJtc:;cntetl. at la~t night'> hearing wa::; of course m01e com- plete than any the Mountebank, could prepan having only be:>en no- tified of the hearing before the Stu- dPnt Council late> that >am<' aft<'t·- noon. l believe, howevet·, that the que,;tion j,; not ,-o much a rnattt-t of literal ure as tt is- do the ot u- dents of Cnion College want a nJOd- ern thPatre run as efficiPntlv as it is m other colleges of thts size'? \VPry oftt>n an organ iza lion which has dt-veloped certain smoothness, advertismg value to the college. and prestige, amuse:- an antaconism from othPt' org-ani- zatton<, nwt·elv hecau\<' of Its well- being. Pet haps the Mountebank~ ha\'t' utnvt•d at thts posttton and 1t is t tme for the pPndul um to swmg and <.ita mattes to 1 et tun to it::; f01 nwr ob::;cutlt\', wlult> some other or~ an ization t'akes tts place. If thts Is the case, Cn10n Cullegl will be completely out of step w1tl. otht~r pto;..:l e:-:.:-dve universitie~ thwughout the> count 1 y and th•• reputation ·which it has built up among wl'll-known t.ht•attes and theatncal P<'!Sil!1alities as one of the out ~t.andtng college thea tt es in the East will 1 apidly crumble away.\ o----- DreSmith Discusses Learning Process Skidmore Professor Describes Emotional Conditioning- Experiments The effect:; of emottonal srim ulae upon the learning ptoce:;s wet·e dtscusst:d by Dr. Carl K St:nitll. head of the psychology department of Skidmore College, at a meeting of the Psychology Club Tuesday night. The guest speaker described some experiments which he con- ducted at Harvard University, the results of which are as yet unpub- lished. The purpose of the experiments, he explained, was to try to find a psychological account of what oc- curs \when for instance, an a vla- tor loses his nerve after an accident unless he returns to the air inune- diately following the mishap-'' The experimental technique of the project was based upon a Kent- Rosanoff word list in which the subjects were conditioned to expect an electric shock after a certain recurrent word. This response was measured by a psychogalvanometer. After the intense emotional re- sponse was built up, the subjects were deconditioned. Dr_ Smith found that deconditioning was not successful if it was started after a lapse of 24 hours from the or-iginal conditioning_ The subject's galvano- meter reading would still jump when t.he key word appeared, in spite of all demonstrations that there would be no shock. The de- conditioning process was successful, however, when it took place imme- diately after the conditioning. deH. Hoadlt-y, comptroller on thl\ heat and light of th!\ collef:;e yestE'r- tlay. A low-vula ti!P soft ('Oal is burned, about eigl1ty or ninetr tons being consumed weL'kly. Bet·ween thit ty and fortr building::; aH heated. The college Is using more ('oal than in other yen·s in spite oft he fact that th(' weather has been tnildet >'D faL The onlr difference which may ex- plain t hi::; n1yster·y is that the col- lege is ·heating the Chi Psi Lodge this year for the first. Other in- novations have been the installa- tion of a thermostat in r..1emorial Chapel and the addition of an en- tirely ne-w hPating system in the Old Chapel. Cnion buys its lighting from the power co:mpany. regi~tering all the electricity it uses on one meter. Each ca rupus building, however. has a separate meter. Better and more ru~dern lighting is enjoyed by the college than the old arc lighting used by the city. MorP elec- tricity, by fifteen per cent for No- vember, i.::; also being used thb yPar·. ------ 0---- Borrowed Choir Robes Dt·. Elmer A. Tidmarsh tequests that all s-tudents and faculty mem- bers wh<J have borrowed choir robes return them within the next week. so that they may be u::;ed by the choit· for the Chri;tma..:; ::;et·- vices. THE CONGORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1925 Mosely's Article Al'Ouses Comment in C1·oatia The article, entitled \A Pan-Slav Memorandum of Liudevit Gaj in 1938,\ published recently in the \American Historical Review\ by Dr. Philip E. Mosely of the social studies division, has aroused con- Mountebanlis Will Begin Road Season Will Present \Both Your Houses\ at Albany Academy On First Trip for 1935 siderable interest in Croatia, Gaj's. The Mountebanks will begin their native country. \road season\ on Friday, Dec_ 13, when they take Maxwell Ander- In October two long articles wete son's \Both Your Houses\ to the devoted to it in \Obzor the leading Albany Academy, it was announced newspaper of Zagreb. Dr. Joseph today by Milton M. Enzer, graduate Horvat, author of \18-.!8\, a vivid historical novel based on the Croat manager. national movement in that year of The play, received favor·ably by revolution, writes that Mr. :Mosely's the audiences that filled the theater article \proves the author's pro- on all three nights of performance, tound. k-nowledge of the subject and will open the third touring year of offers an objective and truthful the organization. criticism of Gaj's personality and memorandum.\ ----0--- First Dean's List \Continued from Page 1) Richard Trumbull, Alan B. Van- Wert. R S- in Civil Engineering-Va- den R. Butler, Chester S. Darrow, Samuel M. Hewitt, Harold S. Mill- ham. R S. in Electrical Engineering- George W. Hobbs, Richard M_ Kel- sey, Richard C. Kennedy, Howard L. Knack, William J. Owens, Jr., Joseph L- Theisen. The policy of touring was adopted in 1933, and the first road trip was taken with \Everyman\ and Mau- rice Masterlinck's \The Intt:uder\ in January, 1934, presented in Al- bany undet· the auspices of the Jun- ior Film Guild. Since then, the group has given seven perform- ances out of town. In the same year, serious prepar- ation for m01·e tom·s began with the acquisition of a trailer, which was rebuilt to suit the needs of the traveling theater. Familiar to stu- dents, its iron walls can hold two complete sets of scenery, or \flats the theater switchboard, and many pieces of stage equipment. The organization's tours have taken them to Albany, Skidmore, and points as far away as Hudson \Midsummer Night's Dream\ 'The Education Institutions of Capitol District have reserved a block of 100 seats for Union Col-· lege student for the motion pic- tu1·e produceion, \A Midsum-mer Night's Dream,\ to be shown at the Madison Theatre in Albany, De- cember 10, 11, 12, 13, according to an announcement made yesterday by Miss Frances Travis, The seats are priced at $1.10 each, and all t:eservations must be made at the Dean's Office before noon tomor- row. Students desiring tickets may call, 4-8102 for their reservations. ----10 Eag-gag·e Valet to Students The attractive baggage service developed by Railway Express for college students is comparable to valet service because it relieves the tt·aveler of all trouble ovei· the des- patch and delivery. Trunks, bag.s, and personal be- longings move on fast passenger train schedules and are delivered safely and swiftly to destination. Students all over the country have found this service invaluable be- cause it allows them to get a1vay for home without any unnecessary luggage delays. ---o---- SCHUBERT CONCERT Student tickets for the Schubert concert, to be presented in MemO!'- ial Chapel Thursday, may be se- cured at reduced rates. R S_ in Chemistry-Joseph R. Ciaranello, Walter A. Denison, Carl R. Faelton, Angelo J _ JI!Iarotta, Philip B. Moore. B. S. in Physics-Lee L_ Daven- port, Howat·d S. Moncton. Falls. In conjunction with their have presented plays in the Moun.te- own tom ing activities, they have I banks theater under this policy. sponsored the performances of John B. Emans, '36, president of othel' companies in their own home. the Mountebanks, is in charge of Skidmore's Omnibus players and 1 touring, and is completing arrange- the Columbia Laboratory Players • ments for the Albany trip. The proof of the cigarette is in the smoking . . . and it always will be Smokers -both men and women- want a cigarette to be mild-yet not fiat or insipid. At the same time they want a cigarette that gives them taste-taste they can enjoy. Chesterfields are outstanding for mifd .. ness-- outstanding for better taste. You can find that out by smoking them. ' .,· ) ' Professor French Reports on Meeting (Continued from Page 1) opment in those fields. Also he de- sired to 'look into those problems with particular reference to the city of Schenectady and the State of New York, in connection with Union's effor-ts to contribute infor- mation and assistance in dealing with governmental problems_ During his brief absence Presi- dent Dixon Ryan Fox took over the classes in \National Gover.n- m.ent Processes\ and \Compara:tive Government.\ At the Pr·ovidence conference the group sessions concerned them- selves with questions of reorganiz- ing city gover·nment to increase ef- ficiency, unemployment relief ad- ministration, new sources of reve- nue, public debt, civic education, county reorganization, tax. limita- tion, a:nd better government person- nel. Among the speakers were Dr. Harold W. Dodds, president of Princeton University; Governor Theodore F_ Green of Rhode Is- land; Leonard D_ White, U. S. Civil Service Commissioner; former Gov- ernor John G. \\linant of New Hampshire, now chairman of the social securities board; Charles H. McTigue, secretary of the New York State Tax Commission; Frank C- Moore, New York State commis- sion for revision of the tax. laws; Victor Ridder, '\VPA administrator for New York City; John J. Mer- rill, New York Sta:te Tax Commis- sion, and John p_ Hennessey of the New York State Tax Commission. • The experiment indicated that during the time lapse, a \mental incubation\ occurred, and an anx- iety neurosis created. From this, Dr. Smith concluded that the fre- quency theory of learning is not sufficient to explain such phe- nomena as emotional learning. ~Uf -~!!em-Chesterfields are what they say they are Vol. LLX-, N Stu<lelltl Mtetin~ Lea~at Eight UDiOI Elm:i1'a. Co Decemb' 10 Colleg, Many Oth.e1 Scho()-ls S Disc11.ss 1 A d-elegatic representing mania and a this w.or-ning meet!ll!.g of t Natioos Cou week-end. at first session noun With at dersoll!. for h followed by ltalo-Etniopil distribution rials, and Ja A- second morr~w at i day-. .Ilelegat discussi~n t treaty- d. efini porter-s a.nd 1 tion of man Uar After tod1 gat eo. will Twain ·Hotel in g. The Unior '36, Car-l 01 der ':37, .Cha Cummings '37, .Ja:ntes Charles Hor resell! tatives leges of Ne1 Elmi:ra, The Hamilton, I cuse, Wells, ':l'IV-Q I\1 Th.e ann! uf tbe CaUl ent college spring gal place a.t S) Asse rubly, ·< a br::anch, i1 leges of tb1 and is held ent ca.Dlp·UI Professor acc<>mpany sor ltas re~ in t11ls cap Dr. Tl 111 s A..dherint pro15ram o the Scbub gavre its f t hP J1,1:emc A. Tidma clull:> spon1 caa bass-I gor-, as sc o~ened tl cbora.les l evLnced b spots_ For weoigbed spects a.r main, W'fr' It is e1 is prhn.a: In this J of his se an;d -sho\1 to d:raw fr<un: his th.e case to' build· R.esu!tan w-eak int ar:-e over: verve wi slngs. Dr cer11ed 1 Ish; and for he wrhlch st said. th si:r()ngb< a_<:hieve ·contratst ~1lrnax. a::..brupt 1 'i'Vor-k in setting. Gaines, c ea_:rly SO!lgl, 1 ren:dere son:gs c RetUI it was: iller-t 011

= lCh 0 1llg l) he de- oblems to the 1 State 11 with ' infor- iealing Presi- k over tovern- ara:tive 1ce the thetn- rganiz- :ase ef- ief ad- f reve- lcation, limita- person- re Dr. ent of 1vernor lde Is- S. Civil lr Gov- E New of the rles H. ! New Frank ommis- ; laws; strator r. Mer- ommis- of the aission. • • • trusts Vol. MI.X_, No. 23 UNlON COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1935 PRICE FIVE CENTS Stu£1ellts Attend Meeting of Model Lea~me ~f Nati&ns Eight Union Delegates Go to Elmina College for Artntud Dt:centbei' Convention 10 Colleges Rep1·esented Many @th.er New Yol'li Staie Sch.c()-ls Send Students to Disc11.ss World P1obleu-.s U nio-,t \I dol'~ lV ot r/dol, Sole Co-Ed on Camplls The grosteque, paint-spattered figure known to several genera- tions of Union znen as the \Idol is not an -idol at all, ac- cording to Dr. George H. Dan- ton, professor of :rnodet·n lan- guages, and student of Chinese art. Worse still, the ·image so long revered by Union masculinity is feminine, Dr. Danton says. In explanation, the statue is the left haif of a. 'Cnee Ling, the Chinese pair of unieoms. Found in front of temples and palaces, they have bodies of deer, the tails of oxen, the scales of fish, and· the hearts of elephants. The Chee Ling, D 1·. Danton further explained, are supposed to be a great bringers of chil- dren, and make their appeal'- ance during the reign of some outstanding ruler. Moore Sees War in Rearmed Germany A d-elegation of eight stu<ients repr-esenting France and Rou- mania and a faculty sponsor left this !lnor-ning to tal'e part in a meetllltg of the Model League of Natioo.s Council to be held this week-end. at Elmira College. 'I'he first session will open this after- noon with a tr-ibute to Arthur Hen- derson.. for his work in the league followed hy a di:>cu::;sion of t:hc Italo-Etbiopian situation, ~h.e re- distribution of world raw mate- ·ial:;, and Japan. in M~nchur·ia. I Skidmore A. second session w1ll open to- morre»w at 9 o'clock and last all day . .:Deleg-ates will bring u.p for· discussic>n the proposed R'uasian treaty- defining importers and ex- Presideni De(!la.res Germany Ready io Fight For World .P()wer porter-s and the League administra- tion of mandates. Dancing Tonight After today's session the gates- \Viii gather at the Twain Hotel for dinner and ng. dele- ~1alk dane- The Unicn delegates, John Hall 36. Carl Olsen '36, Richard Sny- der ':37, .Charles Reeves '37, Ctark Cummings '37, No·rman Stewart 37. Jar.nes MaeKenzie '37, and Charles Honikle '38, will meEt np- resen..tat.ives from nine other col- leges of New York State. including El rni :n, The University of Buffalo, Hamilton, Colgate, Cornell, Syra- ·use, Wells, and Hobart. ':I'W-() :MeEtings Each Ye.ar Th. e annual December meeting uf tbe Council is held at a differ- ent college each year, while the ·prlo.g gathering alwa:ys taltes place at Syracuse University. The Assembly, ,of which the Council is a br::anch, includes most of t:he col- leges of tbe Middle Atlantic states and is held each year on a dif.fer- nt Ca.nlp·US., ProfeGsor Howard Smyth who is acc<>mpan.ying the group as a spon- sor :has replaced Dr. Phillip Mosely n t::his capacity. Pred1cting a rea1n1ed Germany in two year~ and inevitable war, Dr. Hemy Mo01e, p1esident of Skid- more College at Sa1atoga Springs, told ~tudent:s in daily assembly Tuesday that they m'f.lst neverthe- less not confuse the GErman ,people with their governmen.t. The Germans, whom Dr. Moore termed the \most capable for self sacrifice for a cau,;e,\ are the greatest paradox. in. history, ne said. Led by Adolf Hitler, an Austrian, and fonner corporal in the army, the Nazi party has aligned itselt in oppo.;ition to groups correspond- ing in America to the American Federation of Labor, the Cornmu· . nist party and collegeo and univer- sity liberals, the Jews, the Catholic and Protestant ehm·~hes and the college fratemi tics. \The an~wer to ·this paradox is that the Getman ,nation does not wish to die,\ Dr. Moo1e said. \They believe that othen -v;ant them to die or to be relegated to the posi- tion of a third or :fourth rate powe1 which is the sa:rne a.s death to them, so they will put themselves behind any man who will unite them against outside forces.\ Dr. 111 Tidmarsh Commended F()r Work Schubert Concert Last Night :By -4. W. HEPNER A.dhering to the usual kind of plate and make it so savoury. In program offered by choral so-cities, Jesu, Joy For K\erlasting the the Schubert Club of Schenectady tone was fine, not,a.s ratlping as at gavre its fall concert last night in other moments ,during the evening, t hP Jl.1)morial Chapel. Dr-, Elmer and for the duration of this pre- A Tid1narsh conducted, and the cious mu:stc, the chol,us sang more cluill sponsored the Scottlsh·Ameri- like a trained pr~fessional organi- cao. \)ass-baritone, Knight MacGre- zation than like a group of music- gor, as soloist. The Schubert Club loving amateurs. The other two opened the festivities wi \th three chorales contai11ed technieal lirni- chora.les by Bach and im01edia.tely tations which prohiflited the tenors evi need both their fortes an<! sore from matching the firm tone of spots_ Fortunately the former out- the bass voices .. The one factor wedgbecl the latter in D:Jany re- which seemed to bother tbe club spects and the singing, for the most was the development of a main. 1vas highly commendable. pianissimo legato style. But the It is evident that Dr. 'Tidma.rsh bold singing in the forte passages is priro.arily a choral c:on<iuctor. may one overlook any waning in In tbis field he excels, by virtue the quieter moods. of his sense of mass ton-e, <irama, While the Hln.g Ola.f's Cluistmas a11:d shown:tansbip. He kno\Vs bow by Dudley Buck was the most pre- to draw the mwmum :perfection tentious work undertaken for this frc::un: his material, erude <ll' fine as concert, it failed, in its inherent tiLe case may be. He kne>ws where musical structure, to impress this to, build ap and where to let down. writer. The mwic iJS insipid, de- R-esultantly, the sbortce>mings of void of e1noti..onal appeal, and WEak intonation among the tenors where it attempts to bece>me ma- are overshadowed by the fire and jestic and noble, it is flamboyant verve with which the entire chorus and bombastic. 'The presentation of sings. Dr. Tidmarsh is fa.T Jess con- the music was flattering to Pr. cern. eel with detail than wjth fin- Buck, far too flattering for the ish; and in this be is qlrite clever, value of the composition. Dudley for he projects a perfe>riUance Buck has written far more inspir- wrhich stirs the audience_ Let it be ational music tllan this King said. that one of his f<Jremost Olaf's Christina;;~ although thiiS si:r()ngholds is the ability to m.ay surpass others in length. The a.~hieve such splendid il.rarnatic old platitude creeps into view. c<mtratSt through intensifying a \quality not quantity ... \ c-lil'nax. and then instituting an M; for the soloist, M1·. MacGre- ll!.bl'upt pause before continuing the gor. his portion of the program wor-k in an entirel:y ne-w dynamic was a combinatlo'll of a vaudeville setting. In the song arranged by show and a song recital. Mr. Mac- Gaines, the Cornish Fldclle:r's Song Gregor has a. good bass-baritone C ea.rly 19th century English follt voice, not that of a Friedrich smtgl, this sense of the histrionic Schorr or a Lawrence Ti.bbett by ren:dered it almost delectable, if a long throw, but musiCal and soll:gs can be delectable. pleasant. It is big in its dynamic Returning to the Bac=h .chorales, powe1· and ma.nages to harbor sev- it was g:ratifyilig to hea.:r t:he Sc,:bu- eral lovely intervals. B:e has a de- iber-t Club attack such an ambitious (Continued. on Page 4) Who Runs Student Activities? An Editorial The voluminous \brief\. with which the Tax Committee overwhelmed the protests of the Mountebanks at the Stu- dent Council meeting Monday night is a very interesting docmnent. It l'aises issues which concem all student activi- hes, and eXl}lains an action that will have far-r·eaching· con- sequences. The real question at issue is not the particular p!'oblem of who shall administe1· the business affairs of the l\Iounte- , banks. The committee has opened up the Question : Who is to run student activities ? far more vita.! THE PURSE STRINGS The Tax Committee was org·anized so that students could · contl'Ol the expenditure of the student tax fund, previously administered by the Comptroller of the college. Its first \'\·orl\ was to set up a unifonn system of book-kee1ling- for all activities, with a central activities office, and supervised by a faculty Co-ordinator. Power to pass on the budgets of student activities is the only specific power g\iven to the Tax Committee by the Stu- dent Council. But this is sufficient to make the Tax Committee the most potent sing·le unit in the vvhole setup of student activities. In undel'grad uate affairs, as in national and international affair;:;, thuse who contm1 the JH.lrse-string.s are the real rulers. !Continued on Page 2) Orientals Loyal To Personalities Authority on Far East States Lack of Ideals Reta1·ds Eastel'll Civilization Characterizing the Chinese as hard-headed, practical people, Dr. George H. Danton, profebsor of modern language,; and authority on the Far East, told the student body yesterday that the real trou- ble for the future ,; brewing in their country. 'The Chinese, like other Orientals, be said, are incapable of thinking in ab~traction.s, but they are in- terested in making a living, and it is the cause that helps them live that receives their support, not the one that appeals to any ideal. This, according to Dr. Danton, is one of the rerusons for the spread of Communism in Chinese prov- inces. Appealing to their practical instincts, the Communists are able to gain many supporters through redistributing the land. Impe1·iallsm llnknown It is impossible to talk to a Chi- nese about empires and imperial- ism ,because he does not under- stand ab::;tract terms. But he does know that Japan and England are trying to apply them and he re- sents it. Personal loyalties hold the East, he :;aid, notable among them the Japanese loyalty to the Mikado and the empire. \'l..Jntll ;;ome new ideal iE intra· duced in to the Orient to be substi- tuted for personal loyalties,\ Dr. Danton concluded, \its civ.ilization will never be developed to the highest degree.\ --~-o~--- Mountebanks Need Students For Managerial Positions North Describes Travels in Lapland Renowned Globe Trotter Tells Of Trip Across Far North In AJ:Ctic Twilight Speaking in chapel Wednesday, Robel t C. North '36, Union's Rich· a.J d Halhbui·ton, described many of hi:; experience:; while on a trip actoss Lapland with his parents and sister ,.;everal years ago. On the journey, which took three months, North travelled by foot. sledge,; and ponies, reindeer and boat-shaped sleds a thousand miles a.croso< the snOV.')' tundra of the far north. In opening his speech, North told of the chance discovery years be- fore, of an old book, written in 1804 by Acerbi, an Italian adventurer, dealing ·with a series of travels in Lapland,. A.f\Pr reading the book, North said, everyone became so in- terested in the strange, unbeliev- able tales told by Acerbi that they decided to investigate themselves life in thi:> land that includes the northern portions of Norway, Swe- den, Finland and Russia. By ~at and Foot Accordingly, North's party em- ba.rked at Oslo, Norway, on a small coastal steamer bound for Ham- merfest, the northernmost city on the Scandinavian peninsula. From Hammerfest, North said, the party went on foot across North Cape and nonhem EUrope to the mouth of the Tana River. Then, using Russian ponies and sledges, they followed the river up to Karasjok, a large Lap settlement. 'There they d,welt in huts for two weeks while they had fur clothing made in preparation for the trip south to the Swedish border. For this part of ·their journey, they travelled in the conventional Lap Twenty-two candidates from the fashion with reindeer and small junior, sophomore, and freshman sleds built like boats, with a single classes are wanted by the Mounte- runner. r.n speaking of this mode banks for student managerial pCTsi- of travel North pointed out some tions. Application for these ope:.1- of the difficulties encountered in ings must be made to Milton M. trying to guide a reindeer with a Enzer, graduate manager, in Silli- single rein while balancing oneself man Hall by Monday. December 9. \n the tricky sled. Each member The following positions are open: of the party had his own reindeer, Juniors; four mempers of the which was procured from a herd class of 1937 are wanted to qualify of several thousand kept by the for the positions of Business Man- Laps near their village. agcr and Press Representative, After the party had made all now vacant because of the ineligi- preparations, North said, they bility of one officer and resigna- started south in the middle of the tion of the other. long winter night of arctic zones. Sophomores; eight members of Several weeks later, the party ar- the class of 1938 are wanted to , rived safely- at the Swedish border .. qualify for the positions of House At the conclusion of their journey. Manager, Assistant House Man- everyone agreed that Acerbi had ager, and assistant press represen- not exaggerated when he described tative, offices to be held in thei.r Lapland as the strangest country' Junior Year. 'he had ever visited. Fnshmen; ten members of the In his talk, North, described the class of 1939 are wanted to learn life of the Laplanders in detail. the fundamentals of managing the There are three kinds of Laps, he Mountebanks and carrying on the said, the fisher Laps, who live b:y activities attendant to the \road the sea; the farmer Laps. who live trips,\ as well as to qualify for the in huts on ·the rivers; and the no- sophomore positions which will be mad Laps, who dwell in tents and prerequisite for the offices to be follow their great herds of rein- held during Junior and Senior deer from the seacoast. in the sum· years. mer, inland, in the winter. )akers Credit Union Jfitk College Infirmary Practical jokers had the Dean·s of:fice force wondering if Union College possessed an infinnaq· \i\'edne.sday after- noon. Parents and friends of a f1eshman excitedly stormed the office aft€r the receipt of a vhone call to Albany saying that he had been hurt playing bas· ketball and was at the college infirmary. Rushing to Scham:.ctady, they found no such institution. The freshman's fratelni•y :brothers knew n<Jthing of him, Dr. Clowe had heard nothing ~>bc.ut it. Pro- fessor .Hatfield pr·ofessed him- self ent.irely ignorant of the in- jury. T'he Ellis Hospital bad no patie.nt passing umkr the boy's name. 'I' he family was prostrated with grief and my:;tification. The cortege went to tbe fra- ternity house whence cugment- ed in nuDJbers, they proceeded to the gymnasium. 'Th.eir son was 'briskly playing basketball, totally u.uinjured. Bishop of Albany St~Dday Preacher Rt. !Rev. G. Ashton Oldham, Proltl.in:etlt Peace Lecturer, Speaks Here The Rt. Rev. G. Ashton Oldham, l!i:;hup uf th~ Diocese of Albany, will deliver t.he sermon at the Sun- day chapel services at 11:00 o'clock in the Memorial Chapel. The pub- lic is invited to attend this service wbic:h will al::;o be broadcast by station WGY. Dr. Oldham was graduated from Cornell tJnh·ersity and from the Genera.! Theological Seminary. He also st ud.ied at Columbia and Ox- ford lJniversities. He bas received the ho:no:rary degrees of Doctor of Divinity from St. Stephen's Col- lege, in Annandale, and from the P.erkel ey Divinity School. He has a >•o received the honorary degree of Uocto:r of Sacred Theology from the General Theological Seminary. \il'a.:; Columbia Chaplain Bishoj> Oldham was ordained Deacon in 1905 and Priest in 1906. F1om 1906 to 1908 he was Chap- lain of Columbia University. He was successively curate at Grace Church and St. 'Thomas Church in New Yorlt City, and rector of St. Lulie's Church, New York City and St. A.nn·~ Church, Brooklyn. While rector of St. Ann's Church he wat> €lected Bishop Coadjuter of Albany and was consecrated a Bish~p in 1922. He succeeded the RL Rev. Mr. A. H. Nelson as Bis- hop <Jf the Diocese of Albany in 192g, President of the Board of gov- ernor< of the St. Agnes School, Bishop Oldham is a member of the :-;attunal Commiff'ion <ll1 Evange- listisill, the council of foreign rela- tions of the Foreign Policy Asso- ciation, and the evangelism com- mittee of the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America. Faculty Committee Votes to Schedule Mid-Term Exams Final Exam Period in 1936·37 To Be Cut to Week to Allow For Jan~~uy 'Test' Week Major Course Defined Major to Consist of Equivalent Of Four Year Courses In Division, Field, or Topic The Faculty Curriculum Com- mittee, upon recommendation of the Division of Mathematics and Science, voted to change the col- lege rule on operation, in order to provide \scheduled opportunity\ for a three-hour test at the middle of the year, it was announced last night by Dean Charles F. F. Garis, secretary. The college year, beginning with 1936-37, will include the same num- ber of recitation weeks as at pres- ent, but to provide for the mid- £em.,:;t.,l \test~ the final exami- nation period in May and June will be condensed into one week and the other week, now so used, will then be available at mid-sem- ester. Complete Rules Statement The complete statement of the new rule on college operation as adopted by th\ Faculty Curriculum committee follows: \The College ~hall be operated on a year basis and all courses, except such semester courses as shall be authorized, shall be given as year courses in accordance with the following definition; A year course is a course operating for a year with frequent hour-tests, with a seheduled opportunity for a three-hour test at the middle of the year. and with an examination at the end of the year. \It was understood that one week would be devoted to examin- ations at the middle of the college year and one week at the end of the year. Defines Major Courses \In order to make the definition of a major conform to the above · ruling it was voted to change this detinition to read as follows: \A major consists of four year- courses or their equivalent in year and semester courses taken during the junior and senior years. The major may be in a division as a. whole, in a field of a division, in a topic covering two or more fields of a division, or in a topic cover- ing course.s in more than one divi- sion. For a divisional major at least the equivalent of two year- coursec shall be in one field. For a field major all the courses shall ,be in tbe field, half in each of the junior and senior· years.\ 'The Curriculum Committee also passed a new ruling, announced in the last issue of The Concordien- sis, eliminating the present \cut\ ~ystem. The new rule provides for nc absences without a doctor's. ex:, cuse, and no free bolts as now pro- vided. It will go into effect at the beginning of the next srbolastic year, in September. Pirate Annals, Harriet B.. Stowe Rn b Covers On Old Book Sale Tables A great variety of books with t!-1 German, and ~rench gramma.:rs tles ran\\ing from \The Pirate's are in the collection. Whether these Treasure\' a Tale of the Spanish were donated oy students glad to Main\ to' \Report of the Monetary get rid of conjugations, declen- CoiDmission of the Indianapolis sions, and subjunctives or by pro- Convention of 1896\ will be offered fessors hoping to increruse the f<Jr sale by the Faculty Woman's number of polyglots is an open Club i.n the Old Gym Dorm on De- question. There are works of lit- 'cenber 13 and 14. There are books erature in many languages, even to suit everyone; novels, trave- a German translation of \Nomads l<Jgmes biographies, histories, of the North\ by Curwood. bo~ks ',of poetry, essays and plays. Readers of current fiction will 'I'h t part of the volumes find a number of recent! YlJUb- in t~/~~l:~tion is made up of !~h.ed. books. among th,? <?~hers. non-fiction. Recent works on Ja- W1thl~ Th.~s P_resent, ~a~y J:Jan. Russia, Italy, and Germany Peters, and Engllsb Journey rue and many other books on our gov· only a few of t.he new~r volumes .,r m.ent and international affairs f?r sale. Collectors of. hterary an - o. · 1 dad ttques ample opportumty to add to are !DC u ~ · their treasures for times dating There are very few books which from years and years ago have are not well-known and little been donated. \trasb.\ However, novels by Zane Although already a great number G1·ey and James Oliver Curwood of books have been collected for do occasionally rub covers with the sale the Woman's Club hopes Shakespeare, Tennyson, or Macau· for many more donations and Mrs ley, on the tables on which they Harrison C. Coffin will be in the ar-e arranged. Old Gym Dorm today from 2:30 to .A .surprising number of English, 5:00 o'clock to receive books.

Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1935 that, because students are .paying a separ- ~-- ( Q L u M N ~ ~ .. · .. 11 : ate tax, they \should have absolute control · . . · . ·. . . ove1· the prog1·ams of student activities.\ . \ The abolition of a non-student manager for !!;;;;;;===========~ ~irnsis AROUND THE WORLD By RICHARD SNYDER \/l Carua l'ersa Parole !lssai\ FOUNDED 1877 the l\lmmtebanks is a step toward the at- \D•r. Elmei' A. Tidmarsh requests Nearer, my God, to thee. Pl·ayer of the armament maker that a;ll students and faculty mem-. Bring baclc the choir robes, gentle-· since wM· ·scarce: tainment of this end. Now the ql:lestion is: ·bers who .have borrowed choir men. Now t lay me down to sleep will, can, should, the Tax Committee con- .robes retum them within the next we grant you this one concession. I pra:y the Lord the peace won't r 935 Me ::;·;:r 1936 14ssociated Colle6iate Press Distributor of Collee>iate Die>est tiule aw.l l'Xdtl::i!Ve uatluHal ltdnHll:-,llJb rc vrt:scuta'll vci::i ;;-.; ATI.ll:>i AL AlJVEHTl:::li:--:U l:H·;HV IL'E, l~ol'. ·1:.!U &ladbou .A\lHltlfJ :\t!W Yutl< City week so that they may be used by You can take them in the fa:ll again 'keep tinue this policy to its logical conclusion? the choir for the Christmas serv- For the academic procession. Now I'm going to doze and snore l\1ore than $28,000 will be collected in stu-· ices.\ I hope tomo!'row there'll be war Concordiensis, Tuesday, Dec. 3, It came upon the midnight clea·r, English elections: dent taxes this yeae. Less than half of this 1935 • That fine December chill. Ramsey MacDonald sat on a wall 'Twas heaven's breath and .fr(]ze the Ramsey MacDonald had a great sum is administered IJy students. The big·- .Undress ye, merry gentlemen, and beer fall t I $18 000 . a . t d f ath . bring back our array. Upon the window sill. AU party horses and all party ges ump, , · , lS < ppropna e 01' ·- We cannot praise our Saviour bare Thou know est, Christ, t·hat Vole can men letics. This department is such a large and upon a Christmas day. take it. couldn't put Ramsey in Pa:rlia- 1 . t d J, • t . th t 't . Hear how you distress us, B t G d AI . ht e naked' rnent again ChtL·ugu - 1-~ot:>tou - ::iu.u lt'ta.HL'i~lU R L11:-, ~\llgL·IL'~ l'urtlaud - Scattlt: comp 1ca e \'llS!lless en erpnse a 1 IS .Stt:ipped to shirts and jeans. . u 0 rmg y, we ar · Sanctions: · impossible to 111ake undergraduates finan- Disrooe yourselves, professors! Undress ye, merry gentlemen, and Benito Hubbal'd Volent to the 'J.} f . L . I Undrape yourselves, oh, deans! bring back our array. . cupboard The official newspaper of the students of Union College. PubliBhed Tuesdays and 1<'1 idayB throughout the college year, ex:cept during ChristmaB and spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 33-1 Stale St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-H41 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office aB ::>econd Class Mail Matter Subscription price B'ive cents a copy; $3.UU a yea1; d:livered anywh~e in the_ ~mtet!__ States. Editorial Hooms, Silliman Hall, Union College ~~mpu!:)_.. Telephone,_l3chenec:_tady, 4-0133. _ Senior Board Van Vecllten Trumbull .... _ ... Edilm-in-Chief Vella l'lli lluube-1·U6H> John Ande1son ................ Managing Editor l':::~l l:p::,tluu lluu;::,c-·1-~TlO Albert H. Stevenson ... , ....... S)Jot ts Euilut PH l'l'~tlUII llotl:-L·-~~-b~lu Robert C. North ................. News Ed1tor Uella U!J~Ilou lluu::;e-4.-7!J4:! Wallace T. Foote ... 00.00. 00 ••• Featute Editor Alplia !>ella 1'111 lluu,e-·lti;~~ Daniel B. Wohl ........... Circulation Manager 1\a]J]JU :--:u lluuoc-{-j;JJl Robe It 0. NelBon ........... Business Manager Kapp,t Alpha LuLlg<-- 4-~~~~ ----=--Junior Board-- --- --- AssociATE EDITOH:S Millon Bedell Richard Passenger Ralph Cohen Fred Feldman Fenton Gage Cat·!ton Gartison ------ Sophomoi·e-Ifoai·d _____ _ Assistant Editors J. Bundgus R. Doig W. Dean H. Enzer H. Hartmann C. Trahman IlL Muroff C. Honikel R. Ferguson Issue Editor .............. S. Ralph Cohen Assistant lsgue Editors C. Trahman W. Dean Friday, December 6, 193:\ IJ\ho Runs Stude11t . .J.ctit•ities~ 'Continued from Page 11 To challenge this situation would be to at- tack the vel')· foundations of society. Such attacks have been made before, but they have succeeded only in changing the people in power and not the fonn of powP!' they wield. For those who still believe in democracy, there is consolation in the fact that the Tax Committee del'ivt'S its authority from the Student Council. and so, ulimately, from the student body. On the other hand, believers in the aristocmtic form of govemment are assured that the personuel of the Tax Com- mittee is highly aristocratic; its members m·e selected carefully fmm what student and faculty leaders consider the best men for the office. A STRANGE CONTRADICTION With these cleal'ly defined and recognized pu\\'ers, it was strange that the Tax Commit- tee's action took the form which it did. They \voted unanimously to abolish the position of graduate manager of the Mountebanks, effective at the beginning of the fiscal year, 1936-37.\ If they had informed the Mounte- banks that they would sanction no future ap- propriation fm· a graduate manager's salary, there would have been no question of the constitutionality of the action, and the same result would have been achieved. To give this quirk a final, ironic twist, the Committee stated in its brief to the Student Council: \We have not and will not abolish any offices in any undergraduate organiza- tion .... nor is it our desire or aim to inter- fere in the administrative details of the ::\Iountebanks , ... \ And the Student Council \went on record\ as approving the Committee's action! But in spite of the absurd and contradic- tory form which the action took, the Tax Committee has the power to gain its desired end. The contradictions are amusing, but can be easily corrected, if the opposition makes it necessary. PREGNANT POLICY The statement in the Tax Committee's brief which is really pregnant with possibili- ties for future development is its declaration cially respons1v e Ol' 1 t. ong experrence las ·Give back the robes, oh students! . s · b To get poor .rtal1\a some oil We cannot pra:1se our av10ur are proved it unwise to have student sport man-. Thcmgh sometimes you are crude, upon a Christmas day. When he got there, th.e cupboard t t l th 11 tt d t th , You must see the imprudence F. H. was bare agers o con 1'0 e moneys a· o e o ·en· Of singing in the nude. Benito then :began to boil sports. At present, sports managers are not We do not own the higher robes ---o--- · Renaissance: Of penitence and prayer. In the days of the last campaign managers in tl1e sense that the managers of We simply want our choir robes, NOTES ON OUR There was a ma-n named Hoover The Concordiensis, or The Garnet, or the 0 '' God himself will stare. CONTEMPORARIES Who was beaten by F. R. the soother Glee CluiJ are. Not to be dressed for time and But now he's back in the ring place Philosophy . We do not belie\'e that the Tax Committee Is something that I loathes. A sense of humor is recommend- At~Ja~~. his manner is smoother. is foolhard~· eaough to demand student bus- I hope to see my Maker face to ed as a philosophy of life by Dr. State Department: . . i\l ur· , ff' · face, Robert C. Clothier, Rutgers presi-. Oh say can you see mess manage!'S 111 1 r. n Ittner s 0 tee. But not without my clothes. dent. . Any sense to our neutrality LOGICAL ALTERNATIVE Hark, the herald angels sing, rl I I · · ·h. the·.· What to wear? What to wear? ' 1e on y a ternat1ve conSIStent Wit We cannot praise .the newborn king committee's avowed policy is to divorce the Wholly bare, wholly bare. hl · D · I f h ·Peace on earth and mercy mild, At etJc epartment ent1re Y rom t e stu- · In the nude, in the nude, dent tax fund, to make it a part of the col-. Men and angels reconciled. • • A.re we lewd? Are we lewd? lege. Such a move would mvolve cuttmg the Hark the herald angels sing. student tax and raising the tuition fee cot·- Not an angel wears a thing. respondingly. • Rock of ages, cleft for me, All the so-called student activities started Let me hide myself in thee. Dr. Tidmarsh sees my shame, as independent, self-supporting, self-man-; Singing, clothed in my good name. aged affairs. As they grew in size and im- Disrobed and wholly free, portance, they became mor.e and more under rr===========ii the dil'ect control of faculty members and; ·11 ]I professionals, until, like the Athletic De.part- Now Showing ment, their magnitude and compl.exity pre- t=============-' eluded all thought of student administration. ••stars Ovel' Broadway\ . _ . . Another success story popped up Other actiVIties, however, have grown m at Proctor's today with the war- artistic and educational value until they ner Bros.' usual inspir~d title, . ••stars Over Broadway\-tt should have become practically integral with the have been called \A Tenor's curriculum. In order to retain their present TI~~~i~e the singing of James Mel- educational merit they require professional, ton and Jane Frohman (of whom t , It . 1 d . 1 • • t h , , 't t there was too little) the picture has acu ) ea e!S lip JUS as t e \alSI Y eams little to recommend for itself. Pat need professional coaching. O'Brien's acting has quieted down but to a point where he hams in- The :\Iountebanks come undel' this cate- nocuously through all the scenes in gory, at least in the production side. Imagine all plays being produced by student direc- tors! And their claim (\vhich will be tested next year) is that the merit of theil· produc- tions is also dependent on an expe1'i.enced graduate manap;er. The Glee Club is anothe!' organization which it is ab~urd to think of under \abso- lntt>\ student control. The members would be the first to admit theil' complete depen- dence upon Ill'. Tidmarsh. ELIM:INATE HYPOCRISY Absolute control over the pmgrams of stu- dent activities is a ridiculous, quixotic aim, which is fortunately almost impossible to achieve. What the Tax Committee and the Student Council should now do, is to deter- mine just wlwL activities can be run effi- ciently by students, and which ones belong essentially to the curricular pt·ogram. Let them run the former as completely as they wish, and let the college administration have ~omplete control of the others. Let us eliminate the hypocrisy in the pres- ent scheme of \student governed\ activities I CLA.SS MEETINGS which he is supposed to seeth with drayma. Mr. O'Brien has great abil- ity but Hollywood can't seem to find suitable material for him. Frank McHugh as a song plugger does his usual good job but he needs a few tricks. Miss Jean Muir is lovely to look at but her role hardly put her dramatic ability to any great test. We'd like to hear more of Mr. Melton even though he is button-nosed. He has a fine tenor which records very well, plus a pleasing personality, but please Hollywood give us anything but a .success story! The vaudeville has gone sour again so we won't waste space talking about it. S. R. C. hav- ing made that Inevitable trip to N. Y., has a few words to say about 'Winterset', Max:well Anderson's new child. T. S. A11.derson Again After seeing \Both Your Houses\ and then parading to New York to see \Winterset Mr. Anderson's versatility becomes, in certain lig.hts, almost staggering. Removing his scene from the slightly-wilted white collar atmos~ phere of the House Office Building, he sets his characters down under the Brooklyn bridge. They are not politicians, but pettier thieves, mor- ons, out-and-out gangsters. The issues are not gr•aft, but murder and revenge, yet the result is al- most as interesting as that of the satire. From the point of view of an amateur critic (more amateur than critic) the play ls on the whole ex- cellent. Messrs. Gilman et aliis lla.-ve picked flaws, it is true, but €Ven after a reading of their crit- iques, the play was gripping and all the rest. Acting honors, first class, are ing magazines in a fraternity house, perhaps, shared by Richard Bennett and or getting a few extra winks of sleep. But :Burgess Meredith, representatives of the older and younger stage gen- Twenty men met yesterday afterno{m to decide one of the problems of the Senior Class. Where were the rest of them? Read- certainly taking no interest in class affairs. erations. Mr. Bennett endows the H · h d part of Judge Gaunt with a rolling ow lS t e gra · uating class going to accom- oratory that sets off Anderson's plish anything at all this year if no one. poetry to splendid advantage while Meredith has earned himself the moves a finger? . somewhat euphemistic title of \The All too soon the year is going to be over •. Eamlet of 1940.\ Margo, the young Mexican, who is endowed with the Those las.t hectic weeks are really just darling beauty typical of many d t h At th t · t · ballet dancers, is also provided with aroun e corner. a pom everyone· an attractive voice. The old rabbi, will be tearing hair in desperation unless a VIllose portrayer's name I forget, f l 1 'd h d f t' vvas playing his first part in Eng- ew P ans are m a ea 0 rme. Iisb, and didn't entirely succeed. Is it asking- too much of the Senior CLass. Although there were weak spots in the play, Guthrie McClintic with to expect more than a handful to attend direction and Jo Mielziner with set- meetings? Must we leave all the work to of- tlltgs do their damnedest to touch them up; and to make the most of ficers and a few interested or soft hearted the many good parts. souls? The year will run much more .smooth- It was different from ''Both Your Eouses,\ but some of the poetry ly f01· the graduating class if a few more take had a definite reminlscense of Sol part in these activities. Flb:maurice's profanity. S. R. C. ' * * First it's here and then it's there Foreign Students We cet·ta:inly are moving, but There are 365 American students where? at German lllliversities. Medicine . Governor: draws most foreign students to Ger-. At the capitol of a mid-western many, philosophy fewest. state Sits bespectacled Republican Landon • • * Pills Vaccination through vaccine pills· or tablets V!ill be the method of the future, says Dr. Lloyd Arnold of the University of Illinois. Who eyes the W·hite House with courageous abandon He'll bet you a nickel Above that He's fickle At the convention how will he rate? \ * .. Old Grad Dr. ·Francis Wayland Adams, Am- herst '62, is one of the oldest col-· lege alumni living. * * * $1,500 Per Day Columbia University received (Continued on Page 3) lUng George: Old King George was a merry old soul And a merry old soul was he He called for Simon, he called for Hoare, And he called for his ministry The League needs ·backing says he. F AR above the clouds, on all the leading airlines, your pilot is always within hearing and speaking distance of airports-via Western Electric radio telephone. This equipment, made hy the manufactming unit of the Bell System~ is helping the airlines to set a notable record for fast, safe transportation. Teletype-another Bell System service-speeds printed weather information to airports. Long Distance and local telephone facilities, to1>, play important parts in airline operations. Bell System services reach out in many directions to the benefit of industry atld commerce. You can \Jly\ ll.ome by teleph(me~ in a couple of minutes. Wlty not do it tonight? Station-to-Station rates are lowest after 7 P. M. I&EL.I.-~ TI~I.JI~PJIONE S\'STEM . Varsit Work Prospects For~ s Hockey pra< and freshma.n to a ·breezy : the fi.rst sessi• held on the ~ sium. This b prospective Pl: ited to a coup track for lin followed by a disk into the square of lin• The bitter day kept the practice, but teams donne< the ice on tl court the on the vicinity. \l pr·oved to be of the fresl: seemed to ha tary knowled glected to le~ while doing : l'l'OSI Most of th• however, an< sized dimenfO dered their ~ era! uppercl~ which shoul• on the varsit Phil Little a: year's team rlawley, Je>' Arundel, showed thex: home on the plenty of ac ends. Most of 1 voted to the tals, Coacl: much of th basic methc and puck h adequacy o no scrimm:: phase of ac1 until proba· when a m< be procure< lege pond holding wa:i games at played on ~,;iub rink, the last fe, NeVI Coach T~: self as hi: showing of and looks season. A. sight, witl:: w1th Arm~ all except' But with a terial, cou: enthusiasn showing, 1 to mold ~ hi~ first : p1osper:ouf Frosh B To 16 l Another number o1 man bas· afternoon When the ineligibili 1 Coach H:~ will numl All the eligible i mu1al or rule will are drop] The f Thomas, Amazon, Way, H. Lubansk: Pipito. Eleetri The U ican Inf neers wi in theE ing. Th. the eve Rhodes, duties o Electric who wi pro gran the Uni Haro1 the Un Nu, wi1 set of neering of 193E averag;~ freshrn All t candid mlng t sor J. nasiun Sigma at the tomori

:d m .s. LY to ~n it naket• lp won't snore war 01 wall great party 'arlia- ) the tpaig-n [oovet· ~. the ~ ring 1othet·. y there ~' but estern tblican e with rill he :·ry old he called lstry 5 says Varsity, Frosh Hockey Men Work Out Under Lawrence THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1935 Wrestling, Boxing Groups Supervised By Ketz, Fitz: · : The wrestling and boxing classe::>. · 1 which have recently -been organized under the able tutelage of W-ilford IIF AI M t ''''I or ma. a e:r : By MILTON D. BEDELL : I'hree IJNIOS COLLEGE DEI:'U.t1'.li1EJST 0.1' PHYSICAL EDUCATION l•'INANt:L\L ST'h.TBJlE:\'T OF FA.LL SPORTS I il3t;-1936 RECEIP'l'S: SJIOrt Gual'- Gate Total Profit Loss Var:sily Football •.•• $1,UO<Jr00 $5; 27-7.81 $7,177.84 $1,943.00 Fro:sh Football HO:OO 110:0() $644.30 Prospects. Look Brigbt For Successful Season Kelz in the former sport, and Ed One week from tonight the Unl- 1 Fitz in the latter, are proving to versity will meet the Garnet quin- · •.· INTRAMURAL ATHLETICS l· be extremely ·POIJulal' with the un.- tet in. lhe first game of the season dergt·aduates. Thirty men rept·e- · for the Union team. This is a gooil , ·senting thhteen floaternities have time to take a look at the 1Jnion. Varsity X-Counti·:V\: : 12 5!00 Frosh X-Country ............ $2,1315.08 EXPENDI'l'URE'S: 125.0(} 511.18 120.76 $5,277.81 $7,412.84 $1,943.0~ $1,276.24 Basketball Results : enrolled fol' the wiestling class squad individually. , w1tich meets at 4; 30 in the after- Sport GUa!'. IIo1ne l\et 6~6.~:. Trip Supplies Total : noon; and filteeen men from eleven One of the g1•eatest im:pt·ove- Hockey ptadice f~r both varsity E!elta Ups~l.on, Tb.eta Nu Epsilon, :fraternitity groups have signed u·p, ments in defensive work is the: and freshman candtdates got off, Pht L>elta. 1 J::eta, ~nd Del~a _p~ 1 , for the boxing class which sta·rts great showing of Mike Prizna:~·! Varsity Foot\.Jull \ .. $2,15 0:01() $5!7.79 $1,021.67 $1,515.20 $5,234.75 Uro~h l''Ootball 9~,00 ~o.s~ '120.54 447.87 154.30 Varsity X-Countt:y · : : 185i01Cl 21.73 Hl8.18 231.25 636.18 to a ·breezy start Tuesday, when eal'ned tne1r f1rst v1etory po 1 nts 1 n at 5 .p. m. weelt<lays. tliler an absence of a yea1• frOJn'' the fi.rst session of the season was the intramural basketball competi-· . . . . . . tile cow1;. Mike is now showing;_ l•'rosh X-Country ... , 30:0 0 5.00 b0.76 120.76 $2,4G0:01J $665.13 $1,340.39 $2,280.17 $6,745.99 held on the grass by the gsmna-' tion dunng the past three nays. This IS the :flt..rst time tn foul i'>Omf'thing and 1tas become r'u11.-: sium. This brief workout of the l'he n u quintet, 1ed .by ~ob l!:ver-: years that wrestllng or boxmg has. vi.nced of the fact that he should. prospective puck chasers was lim-: est ·overcame .Kappa Alpha 17 to been taught here a:t college, and the get rid of the ball. Due to thi'l iat.t' ited to a couple of jogs around the' 12.' ~tarring for tne 1-'ht' Delts in new classes a:e a part of the ;e- he has developed into an exceileBt:. track for limbering .up purpose::;, Lheir ;$/ to H defeat ot Lambda Chi cently reorgantzed and enlarged m- feeder and flts in with the team: fol:Jowed by an hour of tossing the Alpha were .lVlyers and Vandeca 1 tt:amural _program., Early ne.xt year, ·in. great style. .!\like is a steady' disk into the cage from a Ja:rge · W'lLn 12 and 11 pomts respectively pwbably In Januaiy, wrestlmg and player and a good fake aids him sq_uare of linoleum. 'L·ne Delta. cnis ~oritinued 0 r{ ?axing meets ;vill be_ held fo~· which no end in moving the ball ar()und The bitter weather on W'ednes- theil' losing ways by . defaulting mtramm,al points Wlll be giVen. the floor. · CO:\IPARISQS' OF F'A!l ,L SPORTS lOIH·Sl'i A.ND 1035·36 1934-IO:lo flee:~lp•ts E.'<pen.. Profit Varsity Jfoutball .••. $8.UVJ.US1 55.381.70 $2,712.37 l''rosh I•'ootball ...•• , ~o~.L5 ~51.25 \'ar\ity X-Couutry . . 1~5.IDO 653.10 l•'r\\h X-eountry :t5.Cl0 103.46 $8,503.22 $7 .0~0.11 $2,712.37 N' et 1,1413.11 Loss $142.10 $742.10 88.·16 $1.299.26 day kept the squad from a long their openmg game to Theta Nu Forty-five 1\lea Sign Up practice, but :yesterday the two :l:!lpsilon. 'l'he winning fraternity The students enrolled in the teams donned skates and took to th~reby scored two technical wrestling .cJass ·include; V. Alexa:n- the ice on the Alpha Delt tennis, pomts .. Nmth College slipped a bit. der, M. Amy, F. Begore, D. Blue, court the only available rink. in. m ~osmg 4U to. zz. to th~ ram- E. Burton, G. Came, W. Cashman, the vicinity. This dGnning of skates. paging .uelta Plus. Pal~aher a:nd· C. Chapin, F. Cornell, D. Engesser, pt·oved to be a downf!Lll for sevet·al oloom led th~ way to vt<?tory wrth S. Farr, .A.. Finkel!, H. Fox, L. of the freshtnan prospects, who' H and 10 pomts, respectively. Wa- Gardiner, F. 'Gatchell, H. Greulick, seemed to have gained an elemen- ters of No-rt.h C~lle~e retaliated f_or G. Hart, P. Hatah, D. Henderson, S. tary knowledge of hockey, but ne- t~e loser~ wrth s1~ lleld goals, while Jacobs, J. Karizas, R. Knox, T. gtected to Jearn the art of skating ::;elder played a mce game. Male, T. Palmatier, J. Reichal, J. while doing so. Lineups Ri15gs: W. •Robbins, R. Robinson, L. :l'I·ospects Are Goo<! Delta Upsilon- G F r Salewltz, F. Thorne. Most of the boys showed up well, Bedell ... , ......... , .. o 0 0 Candidates fer boxing include: L. however, and although the .under- Sherman · · ·. · . · ....... 0 0 0 Clark, E. Dewey, R. Fowle1·, H. sized dimensions of the rink hin- Olson .............. , .. 3 0 6 Greulick, S. Hewitt, P. Little, R. .McGovern ......... , _. 2 o 4 Lewis, H. :Myers, A. Nardacci, J. der·ed their actions somewhat, sev- Everest ............... 3 Reichal, w. Reynolds, H. Sander- era! upperclassmen displayed form 1 7 J S . which should rate them positions Gilmour . , .. - ...... , .. 0 0 0 son, . cyzombrowskl, R. Shaw, Moulton ....... _ ... , . _ o o o and R. Thatcher. on the varsity aggregation. Captain Phil Little a:nd l:::ob Warner of last Barry - · · · · · ·- · ·- · · · · · · 0 0 0 ---o--- year's team and Doc Orton, Fritz W. Dean · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 0 0 0 rlawley, Johnnie Wold and Ed Totals · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 8 l 17 Arundel, sophomore delegates, Kappa Alpha- G F P showed themselves to be right at Nett ........ - ......... 1 0 2 home on the ice and should all see Clay ..... - .. - ......... 2 0 4 plenty of action before the season Farrar .. , - , ........ , . . 0 0 0 ends. Trumbull . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 Most of the afternoon was de- rompkins - · · · · · · · · · · · · 2 2 6 voted to the teaching of fundamen- Totals · - · · · · · · · · · · · · 5 2 12 tals, Coach Lawrence spending Lambda Cbi Alpha- G F P much of the time in showing the H.andall · . · . - . . . . . . . . . . 1 0 2 ba::;ic methods of defense, oftense, Canale - ............... 0 0 () AAU to Take Up Olympic Question Matter to Ile Thrashed Out In Committee Caucus Today and puck handling. Due to the in- .Sczombrowski 2 0 4 O'Brl·en 3 o 6 With both sides looking for \ic- adequacy of the playing surface. · · - · · · · · · · · · · - · no scrimmage was -held, and thb .Callegris .............. o o o tory, a close fight on the question Adams 2 1 5 of participation. by the United phase of activity will not take place · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Total 8 1 17 States in the Olympic games- at· until probably later in the month s · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · whet;t a more adaptable rink can Phi Delta Thet11r- G F p Berlin next :year appeared immi- nent last nlght as upwards of 200 be procured, .A.s yet the new col- Ladd · · · · · · - · · · · · · · · · · 0 0 0 delegates al'l'i vc;d in New York City lege pond has shown no signs o1 Schel·merhorn 1 1 3 for the 47th annual convention of holding wa:ter, and it seems that all Vandecar ............. 5 1 11 ·the Amateur Athletic Union start- games at home will probably be Buchanan ............. 0 1 1 ing today, played on the Mohawk Country Burton .... -.. . . . . . . . . 2 0 4 vlub rink, scene of activities for Fay ................... 1 0 2 Avery Brundage, president of the the last few years. Myers .. _ ............. 6 o 12· American Olympic committee, flew .Van Wert ............. 2 o 4 in from Chicago yesterday and said New Coach Satisfied Hargrave ............. 0 o 0 \the battle was won two ye-ars ago\ Coach Lawrence expressed him- ·Fowler ............. , _ o 0 0 but declared himself apprehensive self as highly satisfied with the Totals _ ............. 17 3 37 that an open fight on the question showing of the twenty candidates,' Delta Phi- G F p on the convention floor Saturday and looks forward to a successful Bloom ................ 5 0 10 - \might very easily wreck the struc· season. A. tough schedule is -in; Imrie ............. _ ... 2 0 4 ture of the A. A U.\ If the issue sight, with ga:mes on the docket Walb 'd 0 0 0 is discussed at the general assembly w1th Army, Com ell and Hamilton, n ge · · · · · · · · · · · · Brundage expressed confidence the all exceptionally hard opponents ... · Randall · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 1 0 2 .A.. A. U. would vote in favor of par· ?alma tier ............. 7 0 14 t' - l:>ut with an excellent array or ma- Knox ........... 2 o 4 tcipation. terial, coupled with the spirit and, Hinkle ........... , .... 3 0 6 1\la.ny Faver Boycott enthusiasm the boys have been Totals 20 0 40 showing, Lawrence should be able NnrH~ c~ii~g· ~~ · · · · · · G F Button-holing representatives ot to mold a good team, and make l' distant secti<ms as they checked in, his first year as hockey coach a Agostini · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 2 0 4 Jeremi•>h T. Mahoney, president of p!Osperous one. ?au! · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 0 0 0 the A. A. U. and opposition leader, ---o--- Frosh Basketball Squad Cut To 16 Men; Few Ineligible Another cut was made in the number Df candidates for the fresh- man basketball squad yesterday afternoon, 16 men being retained. When the list has been. checked for ineligibili ties at the dean's office, Coach Hatfield believes his squad will number 12. All the present players are in- eligible to play with any intra- mural organization, although that rule will not hold for any men that are dropped. The freshmen are: Controy, Thomas, iv.l:iller, Halpern, Rathbun, Amazon, Roickle, Hecquemberg, Way, H. C. Smith, Walter, Myers, I~ubansk.y, Stewart, Shugg, and Pipito. ---,o--- Electl'ica.l Eng:ineers to Meet Farr · · ·. · ·. ·. · · 0 0 0 said \there is a preponderance of Coppola ...... ·. · ...... 0 0 0 sentiment in favor of a boycott of Garfinkle ............. 1 0 2 the Olympic games.\ Seidet· · · ... · · ·. · ·- · ·- · 0 0 0 The question will be threshed out Scuris · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·- · 0 0 0 today at a joint star-chamber Borst ...... · ... · · · · · · · 2 0 4 meeting between members of the Waters ·. ·. ·. · · · ·- · ·- · 6 0 12 .A. . .A.. U. executive and foreign reJa. Hennessey · · · · · · ·- · · · · 0 0 0 .Uons comm.ittees. Brundage stated Totals . · · · · · · · · - · · · · 11 0 22 plainly that the issue has no pl>3ce Schedule 'l'onight 7:30-Beta Theta Pi vs. Theta Delta Chi 8:3().-Phi Gamma Delta vs. Kappa Sigma Tomorrow 1:15- Psi Upsilon vs. South Col- lege 2:15-Alpha Delta Phi vs. Sigma Phi 3:15-Neutrals vs. Phi Sigma Kappa 4: 15-Sigma Chi vs. Phi Sigma Delta Monday 7:30-Delta Upsilon Chi Alpha 8:30-Phi Gamma Theta Delta Chi vs. Lambda Delta vs. ---,0--- Skiihabn Now Ready Fo1· Wintersports Enthusiasts in the convention and indicated that unless the \other side\ pt'e· sents a strong case he will use his influence to stifle the question in the committee. The con<:ensus, pointed to an open fight. Members of the joint committee were reported to be evenly divided on the matter. From a quarter $lrongly favoring Ameri- can participation it was learned the opposition bas been mustering con- sider>a ble strength in the last two weeks. Germany Sends Evidence CoinC!idental with the arrival of delegates a l>ulky envelope was re- ceived by Dan Ferris, secretary· treasurer of the A.. A. U ., from the German Olympic organizing com- mittee. 11 contained voluminous evidence to be used to persuade boycott-ad vacates to change their opinions. Van Waldron, like Jack Moffett last year, has made a great im- provement over his playing of last season, on the defensive side. 0f- fensively, a little more practice in following up the ball and a little m01·e shooting, plus Van's excel- lent spirit, will make Van the best guard on the team. There is no question at all tltat Uaptaln Joe Milano* is the hest; Jtll- 'round player on the squad.. Many people seem to feel that With. the added responsibility of ca.:ptll.incy tllrust upon him, Joe should h!l>vc the best season of his college ca- reer. His set shots have been dmp- ping regularly lately and bis Ja.st yea1•'s ability to emerge fron~ the milling ten with the ball has aot dimished in the least. Thre.e ti111es Wednesday, in the shorl s}Jace of five minutes, Joe snatched the llall from an over-eager opponent a.nd headed goal·ward. Tall, lanky Grant Smith, espe- cially good under the basket, is probably the best follower 11p on the team. His height gives hi:m an enormous advantage over his op- ponents which should aid the Dutchmen no end when they get in tight places under the nets. LID- proved defensively since the begin- ning of the season, Grant has a tendency not to cut deep enough and fails to look back for the ball when on the offense and cutting in. The tall center also has spas- modic spells when he handles the ball poorly, Ted Bodbielski is the w-eakest defense man in the group- Despite this, he should, next to JVIilauo, give the team its gt•eatesi; scoring strength. Thus far in the pra~tice sessions he has been weak defen- sively in .that lie doesn't dl·op hack quickly enough and occasion.ail;y plays the ·ball instead of hi.s man on the defense, tending to he <h·aWlt out of positioa a.n<l plared off-balance. Coach Nitchn~aa ho1Jes to eliminate this before the open- ing game. Bill Brandow, smallest man. .on the team, has shown the most pro- mise and has rus good o.n eye for the basket as any of them. He is J. great little ball handler and dis- plays great deception in this line as vvell as in his running. A 11eady player, his defensive aggresGive- ness makes up for his small size. and his ability to spin and cut matches anyone on the tean1. H.en Brown, only junior on the squad, along with BrllJldO\V has made enormous improvement. His eye is much better than last; sea-- son. He is plenty fast, a scra11per, and hillS eliminated defensive weak- nesses previously aJ)tJa.reot.. Guy Griswold, out for the te11.m after .an absence of two years .from UNITY=~__:: ==-· -- N 0 B B S - --- -~-- HABERDASHERY The new Kent and BuHon-Down Collar Shirts. Full Dress Accessories Tux Shirts, $1.95 Adam Hats, $2.95 10<1, B'way-2 d()ors from State The Union Chapter of the Amer- ican Institute of Electrical Engi- neers will meet tonight at 8 o'clock in the E:lectri{lal Engineering Build- ing. Th.e two principal speakers of the evening will be C. Malcolm Rhodes, '35, who will describe the duties of a test ma:n at the General Electrlc, and Kenneth Mathes, '35, who will outline the empolyment program expected to be followed by the Union Chapter of t:he A. I. E, E. Several members of the Outing Club who spent Thanksgiving week-end at the club cabin \Sk.i- habn\ at Thirteenth Lake ha:d their outdoor activities curtailed when rain fell for thirty-six hours Thurs- day and Friday. Saturday, however, enough snow remained for all to begin perfecting their telemarl{S and \christies.\ HENRY·s BARBER SHOP Harold G. Earls, '36, president of the Union Chapter of E:ta Kappa Nu, will present at this meeting a set of books on Electrica:l Engi- neering to the meniber of the class of 1938 -who attained the higllest average in the E. E: course in his freshman year. ---•a--- Swimming Managers All those interested in becoming candidate managers of the swim- ming team should report to Profes- sor J. IIarold Wittner at the Gym- nasium, Forrest Reynolds at the Sigma Phi place oT Robert Nelson at the Eappa Alpha. lodge before tomorrow noon. Everything is ready at the cabin to accommodate wintersports en- thusia:sts every week-end from now until late spring. A group is plan- ning to go north tomorrow noon and all members vvho desire to go are urged to make arrangements with the executive committee or Mr. Wyatt tonight. So far this fall, there has been a party of men at the cabin each weekend, and now that :facilities for all wintersports are available within a few hundred yards of the cabin, it should become the most popular rendezvous for . students interested in skiing and similar sports. MilK BARBERING and MANICURING 10 N.Y. C. Arcade CREAM BUTTER Cloverland Creamery PHOitiE 2·4265 EGGS ICE CREAM COTTAGE CHEESE 191!;;-1936 Varsity Football .. $7,17·o.81 l•'rosh Football . . . ... 110.00 Var~ity X-<. 1 uuntl·y • . 1 ~,j,l 111 I•'rosh X•Cauntry ...... - .... 15,234.75 154.30 \3G.h !20.7G $1,043.09 $6H.30 511.1S 120.76 $7,412.8-1 $6,745.~~ . $1,943.09 Net 666.85 $1.276.24 Awnrc\s have not ~el been lll;<t<]e, so thrut nn e'timateu fig-ure has b~en added to the ~UP!Jlies to \\\''CI' Illis item in each account. Nu\ernher l~J, 1~135. coUI1; activity, is a g<~od ball. h . ..and- ler, cuts well and lnt:elligently. IUs shooting has improved ·a.nd he 11lays steadily, but Ws de:fense has to be built up. Vince Smith has shown upo .pretty well on defense and has a gcooa ag- gressive style .He has itnpl'<lved vastly in cutting and follows up well. Phil Duchscherer, a plugger, is very weak on offense an-<! jerky at times. Phil has lmproved in.. ball handling greatly. George Doyle plays well at times and a. t other times becomes erratic an <I j -<'llky. It will take time to properlly build him up on defense. George is a good possibility but hruo a tenden.cy to lay back too much and his cut- ting has to be taken care olE. As a team the1'e are oc.ciiSional instances when man an~' lbaU fail to lreep moving with a stJ:~ng ;ten- dency to hug the sidelines :sorne- what on fast breaJ{s. ':fhoe great- est wealmess lies in tile defense and Coach Nitchman has been worldng on this phase o:f tJte gii.Dle for th.e past week. l1Dt!rovelllent has been noticeable along this line dtU'ing the past two days oof wo-rk- outs. Failme to 110int O>lLt Jo(Jse men and shout a warnb1g •!'lave also harassed Nels dw'ing ihe daily sessions. On the new ruling wb.ich gives the ball to the oppo111en. ts aft- er a foul shot, tlte men dcon~-t d .. mp back and in so doing fai.ll f,.() face the play quick en!lu.gh. ::Intell£ive drilling has bmught abot5t iln- lll\Ovement here an<l als<I Lu switch- ing men. *D. U. too. * Notes on Our Con.temporaries <Continued from Page 2) gifts totalling $45,216 dlllring Octo- ber. . .. Prospect Statistics indicate that 200,000 children. now attending school in the United States will probably be- come criminals. * $ * Educati.on for ;reace World-wide education is the greatest fa<:tor for peace, says Har- vard's D•ea:n Roscoe Pound. * Improvement Athletic ability of men entering college is increasing :yearly, accord- ing to experimenters at the Univer- sity of California at Los Angeles. . ... .. Rati~ns Joe Louis, heavyweight sensation, is said to enjoy a. chicken dinner- p-roviding there are five chickens, vegetables, and two quarts of milk. .. Upswing Business is on the upswing and veering m.ore and more toward gov- ernment .control, says Dean Ros- well C. McCrea of Columbia Uni- versity School of Business. ... .. .. New Testament Twenty-six Greek manuscripts of the New Testament are owned by the University of Chicago. It is the second largest collection in the country. * Get New Low Fares , Other Information From Greyhound Agent These big reductions effec- tive n ear 1 y everywhere. Drop in, or telephone for specific detm1s. Greyhound Terminal 227 State Street Ph.: Sch'dy 4-5521 UNI():M COLLEGE Book Store Rcom 5-Administration Building COLLEGE SEAL JEWELRY FOUNTAIN PENS FELT PEN~Pt..NTS, .BANNERS, PILLOW CASES CALENDAR Pop~rJar ,fJ1•icerl Leisure Reading Books Hours: 8:45-12:()0 I :15-5:00

Four Fraternity Heads Advocate Practice Of Group Criteria CALENDAR Tonight 7:30 p. m. Vnion College Clu·i<l· t.ian A»ilociution meeting, Room 20, N01th College. THE CONCORDLEN~IS~ 'F'RIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1935 Student BtJr)y Not Over ChaufJ~S In Too Concerned' Absence Rules By MARLIN C. DEPP Students Asked To Participate In Survey Of Student Thought Interfraternity Confet1ence Urges Translation of Ideals to Praetice 8:00 p. m. -A. I. ·E:. E. meeting, Electrical Engineering Build· in g. 'T'outorrow 10:00 a. m.--Daily Memorial Chapel, Chillrud. As»embly, Dr. F. C. Although the new a.Jiseuce rules, in effect next year, rna king -cla...ss cut\ subje~t to the discre tio.n of the .profeilsor may be all rLglt t,. the.re are some students who 1lo0 not fully tru:ot that discretion . .No t t lle least prominent among them at·e some Dean'::; List men who resoeut. lltaving a pt·ofessor. decide ho'W :rna.nv cuts they <lhall be allowed. 1vho thinks that the new system ·is fine. \If I overbolt now I may get !ticked out, but next year I can ·bring an excuse and square things,\ , In an effort to guage student opmwn on moot questions in contemporary life, the Niagara Index, student .publication of Niagara Univez·sity, has asked The Concol'diensis to submit the following questionnaire. Assails Hell 'V eel{ New President Wants Reform Of Initiation Activity, End of Hazing Sunday 11: 1'5 u. m. Sunday Sen·ke, :\1c· moria! Chapel, Bishop C'. A~h­ ton Oldham. 4:00 p. m.- Organ Rectial, Me- morial Chapel, D1. Tidmar~h. An enterprising student envisions· a whole new era in the application of the venerable art of apple polish- ing. \An apple a day keeps the •bolts from exerting too much sway,\ he grinned. This questionnairs is for members of the senior class only, as The Index believes that this class is most representative of ma:tme student thought. Please write your answers on this form, and dl'Op it into the mailbox in the vestibule of Sillima:n Hall. A concerted nationwide effort to trantilate six recognized fraternity ideals into action was urged by ::;peakers at the National Interfra- ternity Conference, held last Satur- day in New York City. Three hun- dred representatives of 60 frater- nities attended the conference_ In addition, Harold J. Baily, new- ly elected head of the conference, assailed initiation practices in his address, and stated that \hell week mu:ot go.\ As recorded on an illuminated scroll the aims of the criteria arc: first, to promote fratemity objec- tives which will be in accord with the aims o.f colleges in which they are located; secondly, to impres:o upon all fraternity members that their primary loyalty is to the col- lege, and that formation of a cha·p- ter involves respon»ibility of the group for the individual. Morals Stress-ed Third, the aim is to promote through fraternities consi::;tent with good morals and taste; fourth, to create in each chaptet' au atmos- phere of intellectual achievement; fifth, to promote sanitary and wholesome physical conditions in all fraternity buildings, and finally, to inculcate sound business prac- tices in managing them. The Rev, Dr. Ralph \V. Sockman, pastor of Chtist Methodiot Epis- copal Chut·ch, stt·es~ed in the open- ing address the importance of \the fraternity as a supplcmPnt to the college in establishing a sow1d re- lationship between the group and the individual so that both inde- pendence and interdependence are safeguarded.\ In urging fratcmitv alumni to pay particular attention to refine- ments of living on the campus, high scholastic standing and prac- tiCal financing of chapters, he said that graduates should be ··pattners and not patrons to undergradu- ates.\ Rt'llponsihility on C\ha.]Jtt•r Norman SeagrH\'t', a senior at Bowdoin College and member of Theta Delta Chi, in an address on the undergJaduate point of view stated that \the morn! ol1ligation to enforce the criteria re~t\ ~quare­ ly on th.e shoulders of each chap- ter.\ He warned that a ><erious crisis facrd fraternitir<\ in their fight for splf-pr!'~ervation and urged that they be given a \fair trial to assume their obligatio·ns not as platitude, but as convictions.\ Mr. Baily presented a four-fold program whieh he :b!'JiPves will fa- cilitate the effeetive application of the criteria. It required. first, that every plPdgf' l\hould sPnrl. a cop~· of the criteria to his paren.t~; second. that a copy ~hould be posted in every chapter house; third. that an address should be made oncP a mon.th on its significance by- a ehapter member, and finally. that methml» should be f(}und to make its impact strike deeply into local situations where conditions vary. Dean D. H. Gardner of Akron L'niversity, Ohio, educational ad- vi»er to the conferPnce. ~aid that universitie~ should adopt a positive attitude toward fraternities and recognize in them a vital force in college life. Ylonday 7:30 p. m. Philomathean Soci- ety meeting·, Old Chapel. 7:30 p. m. ~ Band Meeting, Ttn- phy Room, Gymnasium. 8:30 p. m. -Boston Symphony Orche><tra·, Mt. Pleasant High Rchool. Tuesda;y 10:00 a.m. -Daily Assembly, ~1e­ morial Chapel, Dr. G. D. Kel- logg. 3:30-5:00 p. m.~ -Capehart repto- duction machine concert, Me- morial Chapel. Words About Music BY ARTHUR \VALLACll HEPNER At thP Philharmonie Continuing the spirit of givin;; thanks, your conespondent tenders hts gratitude to those forces which rendered it possible for him to at- tend the concert of the Philhar- monic-Symphony Society of New Y01k, on Thursday night. Dr. Otto Klempet,er, the exiled German con- ductor, presided and offered a well- Thete were variouo t.eplies to a Concordiensis query ar:nong stu- dents in reference to tbc new rules. A sophomore who bel ie'?es that everything will depe.n<l on the in· stll:Ictors said, \Beware o!!' the hard- hearted professor is my molt to.·• One senior Dean's Llo't tnan be- lieve;; that you'll be J::Jet ter off under the new systen <Lihan u.nder the present, if you bell:!aV€ .yollr- self. \Personally I don't have to worry,\ he grinned, \llQaybe.\ Of course there is m'l.e sophomore rousincr finale of tile syn1pbony with its mystetious pass.age creep- mg out of the strings amL cuhninat- mg in a ferociou:; triple fo:rHsshno for the full orchestra. lMt- Klem- perer. swept the orchestt-a through the ftnale at an alm-ost ,tuibeliev- able tempo and the man 'Who would venture to waget that ev~r)' note w~,; not played would be taking a mtghty dangerous risl~:.. Despite the celerity, the pcrf01· mane: e. was marked by ctystal-li!ie c.ilearne::;~ and fine definition of melodic line. A large audience appla ut!ed loud and long both for M;;;. :J.i:lemperet and the orchestra. - -- -- 0-- ~-- - WEEK'S BESI EDITORIAL The sad aspect of the whole situ- ation is the plight of the unfor- tunates who use the eight o'clock to recuperate from the night's heavy date. They may find hard times ahead. Many of the students interviewed believe that there will be little change in the order of things under the new system. A senior said, \The professor will make al- lowances in proportion to the stu- dent's scholastic work, and the new system will be essentially the same as the present one.\ Ii'rencb Club to Entertain Alliance Francaise Sunday 'I'he French Club will go outside the campus Sunday afternoon to provide a musical afternoon be- fore the Alliance Francaise of Schenectady. The progt·am will consist of pi- ano solos by Charles Reid, '36, pres- ident of the club, and French Christmas Carols by members of the organization. Those taking part in the vocal se·:tion of the program are Reid, L<>slie Paffrath, '39; Horace Byrne 'N· John C. Davis, '37; W. Bleeck: er Myer, '37; and A. P. Zabuesnic, faculty adviser of the club. Davis will announce and explain the pro- gram. ---o---- balanced program which, by sheer .Athletic circle» in ti:J.e United cit·cumstance, included the work to States at·e discu::;sing the question which so much space was devote!! of OUI' country's positioll!. I'Vith re- In the Ml!ll··· in this column last week- the Han- gard to America':; par-ticipation in a del Water Music ~uite. The othet the Olympic games if the:y are held To the Editor: two works wete the Lulu excerpts in Nazi German~·. for soprano and ot·chestt a. !rom Th 'I'hough neither a constant nor the opera of the same name, by t ere ate at the Pl·e.sent time careful reader of The Concordien- that enetgetic, contemporary, A us- wo group,; who are fill' hting- Otl.e sis, I could not help but be struck titan, Alban Berg, and the second anotht?r, both seeking tlte true in the past few issues by the let- \'··mphon of Johannes Brahms. spmtsmanlike solution to thte prob- ters vilifying the library and os- o l!:m. The American Olynnpic Com- The reaetwn of heating the gteat mittee is presenting the ease for ~~.sibl 1 Y emanating from the Sigma · f tl f' t American partici.pation ~\i'I'le the . 1 Pace. orchestra ill {Jerson or te trs C' . \L Again to make an admission, I time thts yeat rest>mbled that of tilL' ommittee on Fair Play in Sports am not a consistent habitue of the condemned c11mmal upon leaming Is ;pr~senting the. case ag:-alnst. We librar , but I do believe a.s a lo that his sentence wa~ to be com- 1 behe\e that b.oth mterests ar-e l<Jok- of ju.!tice that it is high time t~e~ muted, ,;o ineffably thtilling wa~ In~ for thP nght path. an_d are not1 03 omeone ~ose to its defense a the expetimce. From the ope,ning he~ng bta~Pd b~·.anythtng but theirj Do the gentlemen who so 'round- bars. ot the all~gr? of the \\ate: own tdeas of f.atr pla~- ly critici>.c the library realize that .Mustc to the stnTmg coda <?f the It seems qmte obvtous ltowever an institution with such a variety last ~ovement o~ the Brahn;s sym~ t.hat but one side is righ~. We ask of subJects being taught in its phon) one tran:ocendcd . to another ) ou t.o loo.k past the tl'Lvlal case c!ltilsrr•orr.s must necessarily have world,. a world of flammg ecstacy thnt t.s hem!!' presented in· 1vhich mar.y books which are seldom if and Wild pas»Ion. on.e ~Ide clatms . that there is dis- Cl'er Uo<f:d? For instance, for the The tone of the Philharmonic as enmmat!On agamst .one t·:ace in few of tht> old guard left who still a mass orgamzation was superb. G£>rm~ny. They clallla that the jndulge ir> a pretty taste for the J<'~'\ m r.rrm.any are noi. ~hen a Latin and Greelt classi'cs there Harely before, even under the great f 1 t t • .• a.Jr oppor u. m Y o pa. rtictpat.e in ntu:ot be an extensi've collecti·on of· To:ocanim, na::o your wnter heat\ th f h e games l t ey dest re. .VVe ask authors and commentators I·n those the Philhaimontc, as a unit, play t 1 k t h you .n oo a t £>.real facts in the tongue.;, yet these few consti'tute with »Ucil majesty, warmth, and Th t C'a.><r \ commit ee~ l•<lllo have but a small part of the student gu:oto. ::lome of the more exquisite st1rrPd up the f'l'nh·ovel!sy ·have de- body :;olo playmg which formerly char- ~ibPrately mi,:repr!'st?nted the facts 1 Do' the gentlemen who so wo- actenzed the orchestra was ml»S- m the case and exaggerated any fully lament the lack of matert'als ing, it i:o tt·ue, but in the last analy- fact th h h d :r'h' :;is the »acrifice of detail for bril- \ PY m~y ave at ' ts 8 ?- in the library plan to write au- liant finish was well worth the caliPd, r.ommttt!'e. ~n F'atr Play m thoritative treatises on the sub- Sports. 1~ not wtlhng io tn'ke the jects which they study? Perhaps change. Even at that, 111 the truths that havt? been jpre.,ented J: may seem unduly disillusioned Btahms· symphony there wet e mo- but rat he!' have wanted to. twist l:Jut I very much doubt that any of ments when Bt·uno Janeckie, the h:1lf-truth,.. around to ftt Hhei r case. t.hem are tsufficiently scholastic in horn player, sang with the gorgeous ~'I? dPplore such tactics jn .Amer- t.astes. tone which Philharmonic concert- Ica a~d look to t?P hou est up-right Granted that the collection be- gocrs have long learned to asso- Amenf'an athlt?!tc to dP.rlde the lmlging to the college is not e~- ciate with his name. Mr. Labate, case ~ too, U»ed his oboe to full advan- · · ceptional in scope, the college is \Vho arP we to J'udge a..s to an,.· nevertheles» doing all it can to add tage, e,;pecially in the soanng slow • movement uf the S''ntphonv, count!'~··~ sP]P<'tion of athiletiic rep- systematically and judiciously to \' • rPsenta.!tves? VVe are c:on vlnced its contents. Mr. Klemperer approached the that this committee is noi. in pos- Any doctor will tell you, sir, that Brahms' symphony in an unfamil· se,sion of the trath. li:'ot;J vvill be one should not scratch or other- iar mannet·, but a mannet· which given an opportunity t()o voice you• wise irritate a sore that is slowly has always been preferred by many opinion in ronvocation in the n.ear healing. students of Brahms. E:mploying the future. It is hoped tilat at the- Thanking you for the courtesy of orchestra as a mass group, he ~amP limP you will heat- n faiir pre- your columns, I am, ~:·:~s~~. t~~e B;;;~~\f ~~~topn;~: ~~~t~~~~ ?!o~E't~:;!-\ f~~~,~~~~us~~l~ Your ohdt. humble, servant, pie-the man who could be found bp able to ~f'E'k lhP truth. 'T\his is CINCTNATUS. stiO!iing absent-mindedly through Pssentially your proble1r1 to ibe de- the streets of Vienna, pulling at a cided by rou. We favor ft!..m-erican Professor William J. Berrv of Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute sharply assailed in his address the type of alumnus who returns to his fratemity to \tell the undergrad- uates what a hell-raiser he was in his day.\ He said that by example and precept the alumni must reveal higher standards. long black cigar, and contemplating participation in the Olyrnpirs even To the Editor: the ways of writing music bathed if held in Nazi Germany. l()u_r pre- It is a .well known fact among in unleashed passion. The »ym- mi~e is not to meddle wvlth the students, tf not among the faculty, phony was wilder than it was elo- German affairs as long as .1ve are that a large percentage, perhaps a quent, and after such a hearing one able to see the principles olf true majority, of Union students cheat is almost thoroughly convinced that s.pot·tsman>'hip followed. when they have the opportunity. ~-~ ---0-- -- ~ ('lassical ('!ub Meeting There will be a meeting of the Classical Club next TuPsdav eve· ning at the homt? of Dr. Hellogg. The meeting will celebrate the com. menccment of the two-thou•a.nclth ~·ear since the birth of Horaee. Dr. Kellogg will speak about the poet. CharlPs RePves, Jame,; MaeKPnzie. and Robert North will preBent a Latin play, Suffragatrix M:ilitans. !The :\Iilitant Suffrag-Ptte), 'Wriffpn by Dr. Kellogg. - ~-- 0-- ~-- Debaters to Argue Totncri·ow The Philomathcan Society will meet tomorrow evening in tile Old Chapel at 7:30 when four members will debate the question, ''Reaolved: that a two-thirds majority of Con- gress should override a Supreme Court decision.\ The men wllo will argue the question are Burru Ear- ford, '37, Charles Honlckel, '38, Lon Barringer, '39, and William Leon- ard, '36. Brahms must be interpreted for its --The LaEay-ette This may seem an extravagant madness rather than for its elo- statement but it is true. There are quence. - ---~o- --- -- sQme faculty members who are broad-minded enough to trust the honesty of students to the extent Mr. Klemperet tevealed this other Brahms by taking tempi a mite faster than genetally taken. In due course, it became evident that even at time the rugged Jo- hannes becomes calm and soulful. lt was impossible to listen to the andante con brio of the symphony and fail to realize this. Only the poignant phrase8 of the late Jim Huneker or the pen of Brahms' biographer. Max Kalbeclt, could dc- scl'ibe the wondr·ous beauty and delicate poetry of this part of the symphony. All that can be written here is that it was berond one's power of willingness to be moved. It soared beyond the heights of sub- limity. Topping the concert off was the iliOTICE TO FLUTE I»L~YE!tS Prof. Charles T. Male, direc-tor of the Union College Band announces that the band needs very- badry t:he services of a good fltite ·pJayer. Anyone intere~ted please -rreport to Prof. Male at the Civil Nngjneerirtg Building. JAMES E. DAY, Opfk ian Prescriptions Filleod or Duplicated General Repair \Vorlt 604 Union St., Cor. Blt.l'l'Ftt St. 3 Bloclts Below College Gate PHONE 2-3464 PINE GROVE DAIRY 118 S. Ferry Street Sc:henectCidy, N. V. MILK SO RICH YOU CAN WHIP THE CREAM Produced Under S~rict Laboratory Contrql For Daily Service PHONE 4-3 121 General lee Cream Corp. 1. Do you favor the participation of the United States in the coming Olympiad in Germany? .................................. . 2. Do you favor the continuation of New Deal policies and the reelecton of President FrankJ.in D. Roosevelt? ................... . 3. If the United States should· declare what seemed to you an aggressive or an offensive war, would you wii!ingly bear arms, or co-operate to a reasonable degree without being forced? ........ . 4. Do you favor the granting of athletic scholarships in your college to strengthen athletic teams? ........................... . The Concordiensis wi11 publish an account of the results of this survey as soon as the final figures are released. of leaving the class during an ex- amination. The resulting amount of cheating is shocking to the man who believes in, and attempts to practice, honesty and who has come to college with the assurance that he would find honesty a. com- mon practice among students .. Home, in which MacGregor enlist- ed the hums of the club, this Thomasian attitude was effective but in the remainder of the pro- gram it was unbecomming and is unbecoming to anyone but the ori- ginator. No doubt, Union men are n<J f·-----------------. more dishonest than men of other colleges since Union's reputed moral standing is high. Neverthe- less, the absence o.f honor among a large number of students is dis- illusioning as well as unfair to the man who is new to the college and trying to play fair. Perhaps I ex- pect too much of my fellow stu- dents; in that case, my disillusion- ment is doing me good. But I do think honor is too scarce among us students. --A Freshman. ---0·---- Schubert Club Concert Pleases Chapel Audience <Continued from Pa:ge one) lightful mezzo voce, and a well placed and well controlled sotto voce. Yet with all of this worthy equipment, he resorts to something which makes his presentation· cheap, imitative, and somewhat vulgar. Mr. MacGregor, judging from his predilection for speeches and gestures of a perculiar kind, worships John Charles Thomas_. Every move he makes simulates · a specific move of Thomas'. Even his manner in making speeches and his turning and dedicating a song to the Club smacks right from the core of the histrionism of that incomparable artist, John Charles. For a few minutes this imitation of Thomas is amusing. After a while it grows monotonous, and at the end of four groups of songs, it is disgusting. For a man with fine equipment, such as is MacGregor's, it is nothing short of ridiculous to pursue this course. · In Eri Tu from Verdi's Masked Ball, and the extemporaneous im- provisation on Dvorak's Going AMERICAN Al LAUNDRY 20% DISCOUNT CASH and CARRY 1030 Barrett St. Phone 4m3166 SUNDAY NIGHT SPECIAL ROAST TURKEY Home Made Stuffim: with Almonds Cranberry Sauce Vegetable 1'1 Pamed Mashed l'ola tnp~ ·Candied Sweet• 45c Amid Pleasant Surroundin9s MURRY'S NEXT TO THE SCHOOL COME IN AND GET AC(j)UAINTED We Have the Finest DE LUXE MOTOR COACHES (Equipped with Radio) to be had in the Capitol District BE CONVINCED-CALL G. A. Welcome & Son Phone 4-8444 1171 Union St. Frank the ba rten- der says: there's no cozier place to sit and chat these cold winter nights than down here with George and me. COLD'S Ue~tnnmnl-'l'ap Il.oom-Dolit•ute•seu 631 STATE ST. Union ColleCJe Week at THE TIE SHOP 403 STATE ST. 3,000 TIES TO SELECT FROM Ties ......... 29c, 4 for $1.00 Ties . . . . . . . . 55c, 2 for $1.00 Sox ........ 29c, 4 for $1.00 Sox ......... 35c, 3 for $1.00 Scarfs, all wool ........ $I .00 Trubenized Shirts Solid White, Blue, Tan or Grey Striped or Figured PRICE RANGE $ •• 25 $,.50 $1 .65 $1.95 During this week all Union College stu- dents will s 1 peci a I receive I O<>fo dis- count on purchases in dozen lots. A Persc:~iption is the Doctor's Sacred Message to the Pharmacist. Take it to: BRANDHORST PHARMACY \ON THE CORNER\' UNION ST. & GILLESPIE E. H. Brandhorst, Reg. Phar. L. E. Brandhoi·st, Beg. Pha.r. Vol. LIX., Union Attend Of M( :Reeves, '3' date Qw ed by A Hold Delegates Mark Tw \Cu The Unio students re Roumania ~ Nations As1 end at El: Saturday ni part in thr1 era! social The Union John Hall •: ard Snyder Clark Cur Stewart '37, and Charle1 l'esentatives leges of Ne' Elmira, Thi Hamilton, cuse, Wells, The dele~ Fricla·y mor about 3:30 lasted, from the delegai dinner anc Twain HatE a new cus that the us versed, and the men. The nex Bession op nine until session, Ch Union dele mandate q sisted of th ing with th in Syria, tl ·Of the Uni< west Afric~ ·rights of t r~eague on report was by Profes~ University, tion, who \well done the sessjor paper on tion in wh' pointment vestigate t His policy League Co The last was held E lasted fr01 afternoon. tered som Schenectac session, th pery. (Con t~trie~ Duri1 Back in president lished a s, ern undE found coil ing justifi lege as at and laws four head All Stude Done Witl Which M: Forbidder gory were following: a pail or Each stu after any more tha student n bed and tion of U \Thing1 ed the from one ing dowr <2) Goin~ college. ' entertain lege or iJ or at a night. <l during dancing sort. (7) (8) Meet especiall~ These

In of the only, ve of the the d the an or your this enlist- this pro- and is the ori- St. barten- there's place d chat winter n down 'S ST. ' all is- es StS Vol. LIX., No. 24 PRICE FIVE CENTS UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1935 Union Delegation Attends Assembly Of Model League Reeves, '27, Reports on Man- date Question; Commend- ed by Assembly Critique Hold Three Sessions Delegates Attend Dance at· Mark Twain Hotel; Women \Cut\ In on Men The Union delegation of eight students representing France arid Roumania> at the Model League of Nations Assembiy held last week- end at Elmira College returned Saturday night after having taken part in three sessions and in sev- eral social events at the college. ll'he Union delegation composed of John Hall '36, Carl Olsen '36, Rich- ard Snyder '37, Charles Reeves '37, Clark Cummings '37, Norman Stewart '37, J!lmes MacKenzie '37, and Charles :f1:onikle '38, met rep- resentatives from nine other col- leges of New York State, including Elmira, The University of Buffalo, Hamilton, Colgate, Cornell, Syra- cuse, Wells, and Hobart. K1·on Describes Simple System of Mathematics . Varied ·Collection: Pl'of. Vedder Will Speak Of B 1,... f. S 1 . At Meeting of Sigma Xi• · OOi\.S · or a e · A system of mathematics commonly classed as a:dvanced but really so simple and pow- erful a. methrnd for attacking problems in physics and engi- neering that in a fe-w years it may 'be an essential part of freshman mathematics was de- scribed by Mr. Ga:briel Kron of General Electric Company in the third of a series of four lec- tures at the Physi~s Building this morning. In addition to e::xcplalning the method of tensors, Mr. Kron gave many examples of its use in specific problems su~h as electric circuits and rotating machinery. His series of lec- tures have been on the subject of Tensor Analysis. Mr. Rron's last l-ecture will be .given on Thursday morning in the Physics Building. Religious Bigotry EndangersAmerica Bishop Oldham Warns Against Conh·ol of Religion By the State In Old Gym Dorm Faculty Women's Club to Hold Book Sale to Benefit Scholarship Fund Volumes in All Fields Included Are Books by Mor- ley, Conrad, Wodehouse and Wiggam A large number of second-hand books, including novels, travelogues, biographies, histories, books of poetry essays and plays, and a variety of texts have been gathered and donated for the book sale which will be held Friday a:nd Sat- urday in the Old Gym Dorm. The sale is sponsored by the Faculty Women's Club and the proceeds will go to the general scholarship fund. Among the varied collection are included: books by Christopher Morley, \The Haunted Bookshop,\ \Thunder on the Left\; by Joseph Professor John N. Vedder, of the E~ectrical Engineering Department,: w11l speak on \Unnatural Philos-· ophy\ at the second regular meet-' il}~ of the local chapter of Sigma, X1, to be held tomorrow evening. at 8 o'clock in room 16 of the: Electrical Laboratory. Prof. Ved- der, in his talk, will discuss some of the unhealthy aspects of science. The meeting will be open to stu- dents and to the public. . Dr. Ernst M. Ligon, Assistant Professor of Psychology, addressed the first meeting of the national scientific honorary society in No- vember. The first election of new mem-' b~rs from t~e undergraduate body w1li be held m February, Dr. Frank Studer, Secretary of the local cha- pel, announced. ---a·--- Large Group Lauds Boston Symphony Orchestra, Led by D1·. Kousse- vitsky, Plays Sibelius' Second Conrad, \Chance \The Shadow Line\; \Meet Mr. Mulliner\ by P. By ARTHUR W. HEPNER G. Wodehouse; \The Lives of a The tremendous ovation tender- CALENDAR Today 10:00 a. m.-Daiiy Assembly, Memorial Chapel, Dr. George D. Kellogg, prefessor of latin. 3:30-5:00 p. m.-Concert, Cape- hart recordings, Memorial Chapel. 7:30 p. m.-Classical Club Meet- ing, Dr. Kellogg's home. Tomorrow 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly, Mr. Lambert L. Montgomery, Ef- ficiency Engineer, New York City. 3:30 p. m.-Glee Club Rehearsal, Hanna Hall. 8:00 p. m.-Sigma Xi Meeting, Room 1•6, Electrical Labora- tory. Speaker, Professor John N. Vedder. Thursday 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly, Carl E, Olson, '36. Friday 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, Memorial Chapel. 2:30 p. m.-Choir Rehearsal, Memorial Chapel. 7:30 p.m.-College Christian As- sociation Meeting, Room 20, North College. 8:00 p.m.-Basketball, Union vs. Vermont University, Alumni Gymnasium. 8:30 p. m.-Mountebanks Per- formance, \Both Your Houses\ Albany Academy, Albany. . 9:00 a. m.-5:00 p. m.-Book Sale. Conducted by Faculty Wom- an's Club, Old Gym Dorm; benefit student loan fund of Union College. Annual Christmas Song Festival To Take Place Sunday Carol Sing to Climax a Full· of Music Of Season ])ay Amplifie1·s to Be Used Chapel Will Be Bright With Lights for Gala Celebration The third annual Christmas song festival sponsored by the Union College Christian Association v.rill be held Sunday evening at eight o'clock in the Memorial Chapel. This service will climax a day- of extensive observance of the Christ- mas season by the college for both the morning chapel service at e~even o'clock, and the organ re- el tal at four in the afternoon v.rill be devoted entirely to Christmas music. A . capacity crowd is expected to f1ll the Chapel, singing carols under the guidance of Dr. Ebner A. Tidmarsh, director of music who will be assisted by the colleg~ glee club and choir. In order to facilitate the group singing, the words and music of the carols will be projected upon a screen so that the singers may more easily fol- low the director. The delegation left Schenectady Fricla·y morning, arriving at Elmira about 3:30 p. m. 'l'he fir'st session lastedJrom 4:00 to 6:00 after which the delegates attended a formal dinner and dance at the Mark Twain Hotel in Elmira. At a -dance, a new custom was instituted, in that the usual proceedure wa:s le- versed, and the women \cut in\ on lhe men. America is not to() free of the reiigiou8 bigotry and prejudice which has been carri€d to such a great extent by the totalitarian states in Europe, warned Bishop G. Ashton Oldham, of the Alban~· Diocese, yesterday morning in his sermon at the Sunday services in Bengal Lancer\ by Francis Years- ed the Boston Symphony Orches- Brown; \RooEevelt Versus Recov- .tra and its beloved: conductor, Dr. ery\ by Ralph Robey; \The Marks Serge Koussevitsky, by a brilliant of an Educated Man\ by A. E. throng of music lovers after its Wiggam; and \New Russia's Pri- concert at the Mont Pleasant High mer\ by Ilin. School last night is the best evi- There are also a number of dence of the quality of that event. standard French and Germa-n text- The concert was sponsored by the books together with Chemistry, ~chenectady Civic Music Associa- Mathematics, History and Civics t10n. No other program could There are definite signs that pre- texts. A few of these are: \Shorter have better befitted the occasion c-ede the establishment of the to- French Course\ by Fraser and than Dr. Koussevitsl,y's choice of talitat·ian state which compel us to Squair; \French Conversation and the Concerto for two wind choirs be on our guard, he said. He assert- Grammar\ by Otto; Ford ad Hick's and strings by Handel, the Sym- ed that despite the evidence of re- \A New French Reader\; \German phony in G major No. 88 (Breit- ligious prejudice in the democratic Mei.hod\ by Lange; \Introduction koj)f and Hartel No. 13) by Haydn, country of America, it is not as im- to German\ by Prokosch; \Harris' and the Symphony No. 2 in D ma- portant as the restrictions in a \German Reader\; History of the jor, opus 43 by Sibelius. Here were state like Russia, Germany or United States\ by Gordy; and the elements for a composite whole Italy. \Community Civics\ by Hughes. which explored the finest music of the Memorial Chapel. Kellogg Revi~ws Career of Horace As in the past, the singing will be heard over the campus by means o.f an amplifying system, a~d agam. the Memorial Chapel w;ll be gruly decorated in keeping WltJ: t.he Christmas spirit. Lighted Chnstmas trees will be placed at either side of the chancel and ~an­ dies will adorn the windows thus adding to the spirit of the occa- sion. The next morning the second Bession opened, extending from nine until eleven-thirty. At this session, Charles W. Reeves of the Union delegation reported on the mandate question. His paper con- sisted of three parts, the first deal- ing with the French administration in Syria, the second with a union ·Of the Unions of South and South- west Africa, and the third with the ·rights of the non-members of the r.eague on ma;pdate questions·. His report was afterwards commended by Professor Taylor of Syracuse University, critique of the conven- tion, who remarked that it was \well done and one of the best of the session\. Reeves also read a paper on the Sino-Japanese ques-· tio.n in which he advocated the ap- pomtment of a commission to in- vestigate the far eastern situation. His policy was accepted by the League Council. The last session of the Assembly was held Saturday after lunch and lasted from 1:30 until late in the afternoon. The delegation encoun\ tered some difficulty in reaching Schenectady a:fter leaving this final session, the roads being rather slip- pery. (Continued on Page 4) The religious thinking is so in- terwoven in American life that it seems inconceivable 'to many that anything else may take its place. Yet religious thinking was not able to withsta:nd the attacks of the state in Eu<op.e. Although Christians have fought pagans and one Rnother with equal savagery in the name of the one god, the great- est enemy, the totalitarian state, has tried to do a wa'Y with all re- ligion. \Russia is anti-Christian, anti- religious and anti-God. Religion is there a disturbing fa-ctor and must be remov.ed.\ In Germany Christ has been raised from a. lo-wly Naz- arene to leader of ·blood and iron. The church ha:s become entirely ,subservient to the state. Moreover, this has been accomplished in spit~ of the u11usually courageous oppo- Rition of the churches. ~~triet Rules Were Order of the Day During the Presidency of D-r. Nott \The Works of Edmund Burke\: the past and entered into the most \Kipling's Poetical Works\; \Burns' significant music of the present. Poetical Works\; \Frc Milton to Dr. Koussevitsky lost no time in Tennyson'' by L. D. Syle; \Chaucer manifesting the calibre of his art Selected Poems\ by Oliver F. Em- and the magnificence of his instru- erson; and Goldsmith's \The De- ment. It must be understood that serted Village\ are also available. he controls an instrument which In .addition to these books, theve may be said to be the nearest P·re .some very old books. ~·ome of thing to absolute perfection in these are: \A Serious Address on ox•chestral performance. His the Dangerous Consequences of Ne- orchestra can be depended upon glecting Common Coughs and t:o play in masterly fashion at any Colds\ by Thomas Hayes, published moment's call and the singular in 1808; \Charlotte Temple\ by Mrs. uniqueness of its functioning ran- Rawson, published 'in 1819; and ders it possible for Dr. Koussevit- '';Fables Amusanyes'' by M. Perrin, slty to mold it to his will and pro- published in 1821, duce whatever he desit'es with the Although the greater part of the most delicate nuances of finesse. volumes which have been collected '11he orchestra responds to his for the sale is made up of non-fie- baton and his expressive gestures, tion, including recent works on both facial and with his left hand, Japan, Russia:, Italy and Germany, like a Steinway to the touch of a and many other books on govern- Myra Hess. Without the highly ment, there are also a number of polished Boston Symphony Orches- recently published fiction, and tra playing as it does with so works of literature in many Ian- much elan and poise and luscious guages. Most of the books are well- tone, Dr. Koussevitsky would be known. by famous authors, and a hopelessly unable to unravel the great many of them, Classics. mysteries of Handel's, Haydn's, Among the books of recent and and Sibelius' music. current fiction which are to be After completely recovering found in the collection are ''Within from the emotional paralysis en- This Present,\ '\Mary Peters,\ and gendered by hearing the opening \English Journey.\ bars of the Hand~! concerto, it be- Prices of the books range from ca.me possible, though only barely ten cents up with the average about S(}, to think of other things besides 35 to 40 cents. the impressionistic interpretation Although the Women's Club have of the music. The concerto, as already collected a large number played last night, was in the edi- of books, it is hoped that consider- tion made by Gustav F. Kogel, able more dona:tions will be made (Continued on P!lJge 4) before the sale opens Friday. The sale is under the direction of Mrs. Harrison C. Coffin. ---o•---- Chillrud Traces History Of Character Education The middle section of the balcony will he reserved for members of In spirit with the bi-mellenium the choirs of local churches That celebration of the birth of the La- approximately 100 choir m~mbers t' H are planning to attend is indica- Bi-Mellenium of Poet's Birth Celebrated Throughout World This Year m poet, m·ace, Dr. George D. tive of the outside interest ,in carol Kellogg, professor of Latin, spoke singing by the townspeople. this morning on the life and works This service has for the past two of the great poet at the regular years been so successful that the daily assembly period. Association hopes for its contirmed · succ'3ss and trusts that the an.nual Giving the story of the early life carol singing service will become !lJnd literary activities of Horace, an ~ndensible part of the c:ollege's who is reknowned for his famous Chnstmas activities. d D Gerald ~· Neumann '36, president o es, r. Kellogg described his in- of the Umon College Christian As- fluence on 8Ubsequent literature. sociation has announced the fol- He recited several of the more lowing in charge of the affair: characteristic poems in the English Forrest Reynolds '36, genera.! chair- translation. man in charge, to be assisted by Richard Angle '38, Bradley Plum- Last Sunday was the 1,999th mer '36, and William Green '36. birthday of the famous poet and Among the Carols that will be from then until next year at the sung Sunday morning are the fol- same time, the world will celebrate lowing: Sing Noel, and At Solemn the two thousandth anniversary of Midnight Came a Call, both old his birth. French Noels, and an Old Eurgun- Dr. Kellogg, is the faculty ad- dian Noel, When the World Was viser of the Classical Club which White with Winter; a nold Soeotch at its meeting tonight is also to Carol, Noel Ecossais; Midwinter, by discuss the life and works of Hor- Holst, and Pat-a-pan, a Burgundian ace in accordance with the bi-mel- Carol; Taylor's The Three Ships· lenium. Dr. Kellogg will speak, and Christman Folk Song by Wheaton: Charles Reeves, James MacKenzie, While by My Sheep I WatchEd at and Robert North will present a Night; Holst's Christmas Song; Lo Latin play, Suffroga.trix Milita.ns How a Rose E'er Blooming, by lthe Militant Suffragette), written Praetorius, and the March (}f the by Dr. Kellogg. Wise Men by Gaul. Coming Year to Mark Bi-milleninm Of Birth of Horace, Noted for Odes Back in 1840 when Dr. Nott was Forbidden\ starts off -with a mas- president of the college, he estab- terfi:ll coup that sou.nds as though lished a set of rules that the mod- it might cover a multitude of sins: ern undergrad1,mte would have \Students are forbidden from avow- found confining to the point of be- ing 01: propagating Infidel princi- ing justified in referring to the col-· pies.\ Not content with this ali-in- lege as a t.ype of prison. These rules elusive restriction, the good :poctor and laws were incorporated under went on to forbid the following: four headings, \Things Required: of Profaning the Sabbath by noise, ex- All Students,\ \Things Not to be cursions from college, etc. (2) Done Without Permission,\ \Things Using obscene language. (3) Play- Which May Be Done,\ and \Things ing at c~trds, billiarcis, or any other Forbidden.\ Under the first cate- unlawful game. (4) 1Jsing liquor or gory were such requirements as the giving entertainments, either in or following: Each student must keep out of college. (5) Strildng or in- a pail or bucket in his room, (2) suiting any person. C 6) Visiting tav- Each student must be examined erns or groceries or standing after any absence from college of around hotels. (7) Going to rail- more than one month, (3) Each road depot when trains arrive or student must have his room scrub- dei>arL (8) Throwing things, espe- bed and whitewashed at the direc- cially water, out of the windows. tion of the Registra:r. l9 Speaiting at Commencement or Glee Club to Sing In Daily Assembly Friday The Glee Club, under the direc- tion of Dr. Elmer Tidmarsh, will make its first appearance before the student body this year in morning assembly next Friday. Its program, mainly Negro music, will include: \The Cornish Fiddler's Song,\ and a group of spirituals which includes \Ezekiel Saw de Wheel,\ \Standin' in de Need of Prayer,\ and \Made in de Water.\ December 8, 1935 marked the 1 came his friend and patron A.ugus- 1,999 a?niversary of ,birth of the tus also extended to th~ :young poet Qmtus Horatius F!accus, bet- \writer his favor to so marked an ter ~r.nown as Horace. During the extent that when In need of a sec- Pointing out that the inception of comu~g year ~e bi-mellenium of retary he begged Maecenas to. SJ>are Christianity as a world-recognized ~he b1rth of .th;s man, second only 1 him his protegee, and when Horace religion brought about the divorce- m fame t.o V1rg!l among the Roman declined he showed no resentment ment of ethics from philosophy, poets, Wlll be celebrated all over but continued his efforts to gain Professor Franklin C. Chillrud of the world. the poet's good will. exhibiting anything not approved. \Things Not to Be Done\ includ· (1'0) Joining any secret society. ed the following: (1) Removing (11) Attending a ball or festival en- from one room to another, or tak- tet'talnment at the close of the ing down stove or other fixtures. term. <2) Going more than one mile from Under .the section given over to college. (3) Being present at any things permitted was one single entertainment given either in col- item: To attend classes and reli- lege or in town. (4) Being in .town giou-s exercises. This long list of or at a house of refreshment at. legislation set up by Dr. Nott night. (5) Remaining in college stands out rather shar:PlY when during vacation. (6) Attending c·ontrasted with the rules set up by dancing school or shows of any President Webstel' in 1890. The sort. (7) Going to city post-office. rules for the college were contained (8) Meeting of any class or society, in one sentence: ••Do your work especially at night. and conduct yoursel¥es lilte gentle- The section dea:ling with \Things men,\ After the Christmas holidays the club will give several out of town concerts. It will sing in Albany, Binghamton, Elmira, Potsdam, and New York. According to its present plans, the club will have as active a schedule this season as it did last year. Schenectady is also included in the calendar of recitals and the club will probably finish its year with this concert some time in April, the Depa;rtment of Psychology dis- Horace was born on December 9, After HoraJCe was established in cussed the effect of that change on 65. B. C., the son of a freedman. To Roman society, Maecenas gave modern character education, when ~his fathe; he owed a debt of grat- him some pl'operty in the Sabine he spoke on the subject of \Char- 1tude _wh~ch he handed down to Hills which is still a place of pil- acter Education\ in daily assembly postenty m o~e of. the pi:asantest grimage for those who l<>ve Latin Saturday morning. passages o~ hi~ sabres. H1s fath~r poetry. There Horace loved t() re- With the introduction of Chris- educated him m RoTI?e a~d later m tire, to meditate, to WTite and to tianity, he said, there occurred cer- Athens, then the umvers1ty of the be far from indifferent to the tain changes in society, among oth- world. Horace fought on the side flavour of wine. An amused spec- eta the divorcing of ethics from of ~rutus at the battle of Phillipi tator of the follies of the rnetrop- philosophy. \At t4e same time agamst Antony and Octavius .. After liS', he was a genuine lover of the Christianity became antagonistic to the war he fo~nd himself W:ithout countryside, as is evidenced: in the state, and to philosophy.\ Pro- money O'; . fr1ends. Procurmg . a his poetry. Horace was an obser- fessor Chillrud then showed how small P?Sltlon, he began to wr1te ver of life rather than an. eager people today lool' towards the pub- yerse ~th poverty, as he ~ays, his pursuer of luxury and fasWon. lie schools as the centers of moral mspirabon. However, th1s verse Short and stout, he never married as well as intellectual education, was so good that he soon acquired nor was it very fashionable fo.z• and pointed out a great difficultv the friendship of Virgil and even of literary men of the time t<> do so. in that the public schools are today f\-ugustus. Through them he was Horace made many friends whom a part of the state. mtroduced to Maecenas who be- (Continued on Page 4}

Two \t1. Catesa Per sa Pat·ole 11 ssai\ FouNDED 1877 19.35 Member 1936 Rssociat~d Collet)iate Press Distributor of Colleeiate Die)est :::lu1c lUll! ex.clu~tve uatioua1 mlvet lt::.tng r~ J)resen tall Yeti NATlU:\'.AL A JJVEltTlSlNU SUt\'1l'E, lt•l'. 4~U :\rladil:lun Avenue .':ew Yor1t City Chicago - Dostoa .. tiau I~.,rauch:H:o - f.o~oh t\JJgtlt>:-~ ·l 'orthcud - Sea ttl~ ----------------------~--------- The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Publi::lheu Tuesdays and Friday::; throughout the college year, except tlu1 iug Chri::;truas and ::;pl'ing rece:;::;es. Publication Office, The. Gazette Ptess, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4Hl Enter·ed at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class l\lail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the Unite~,::;~_at_es. Editm,ial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union Coll~ge Campus. Telephone,. Schen~tady, 4-~133. Senior Board Van Vechten Tt:umbull ........ EdiloL-in-Chief llella !'hi !lUUbtl-4·Uti45 John Anderson ................ Managing Editor l'st UpsJluu Huu::.e-4-o 71U Albert H. Steven:son ........... f:>p01 ts Ectilo1 l';,i Lps!luu Huu,;c-4-o71U Robert C. North ................. New::; Edilu1 JJcllu Up~duu Iluu:::.e-4-7!.1::::~ Wallace '!'. Foote .............. Feature Editul A !pita Dol ta l'hi Huw>e-4tio ~~ Daniel B. WahL ........... Circulation Manager KaP!Ja :-.:u Huuse-4-73;;1 Robert 0. Nels011 .......... Business Manager K<\I'I•U Al]l1Ht Lutlge-4·81~2 ---~ Jllltior Board--- ----- A:5:SOGIA'J.'E EDI'l'OltS Milton Bedell IUchard Passenger Ralph Cohen Fred Feldman Fenton Gage Carlton Garrison J. Bundgus R. Doig W. Dean s()JlllOmore Board-- A.ssista.nt Editol's .l:l. Enzer H. Hartmann C. Trahman M. Muroff C. Honikel H. Ferguson THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1935 out the send-off that a foot baH team re- 'II II ceives, and yet they took )Htl't in an ac- IN THE MAlt · tivity mo1·e important tlran 1m athletic con- • 1 ,:_===========1.1 NOW SHOWING Rogel's, Posthumously When Will Rogel'S went flying with Wiley Post he left two pic- tures completed for •Fox. Much query arose as to whether or not the studio should release the pic- tures. Fox announced that it .felt that Will Rogers would have wanted them to release the twe works and that they would do so .. Unmentioned was the fact that a good dea:l of money was invested and that the accident was publicity of high value. The first released was the weak piece, \Steamboat 'Round the Bend.\ Roge1·s fans ·test. In addition to th.e ment::tl tl·aining- and the grooming in world affairs that these men re- . ceive individually, they represent Union in . a manne1· that lms increased our prestige · beyond our own campus. They have estab- lished new contacts, thE: value of which · no one can estimate. The student body sho1.rld take more no- tice ol' activities such as these and extend to them some of the encouragement and enthu- siasm ex.pect<>d by a footbe;tll team. TAKING THEPLEDGE One of the most suqn-ising thing-s about the .safe driving- moven1ent is the alacrity . with which colleges haw 1:al<en up the cam- paig-n to t>liminate auto a{!cidents. Yale, Harvard, Dartmouth and many other colleges. in the East have conducted cam- paig1lS of their own to lm-ve all student driv- ers sign a pledge to co-operate in accident ' prevention by driving c£t11efully. In the · pledge the signer makes the following good resolutions: l. To drive at modet·atoe speed and on my own side of the road. 2. Not to pass cars on curves or hills, :3. To stop at stop sign~. 4. Not to jump traffic lig;ht:s. :5. In city traffic to be )JaTticularly watch- ful for pedestrians steppi:rllg- into the line of traffic from parked cars. To the Editor: Admitting t.he futility of reason- ing with ~k. Van Beuren, who wt·ites the Concordy in defense of fraternities, vve nevertheless feel the necessity of enlightening him on certain points. Had Mr. \'an Beuren been satis- fied with saying that the deliver- ing of fratemity marks before neu-, tral marl{S was a thing of small import, that would have been tn:1e, and adequate, Unfortunately, he felt the urge to \take a crack\ at the neutrals, and in so doing ::;howed himself te be both ignorant and stupid. . were loyal but not enthusiastic to- The fraternities, it is admitted, wards what was no more than an- do control \everything.\ \And why. not?\ asks brother Van Beuren. other stock Rogers vehicle, the one \The fraternity men are far in the of the country squire <a Mississippi majority,\ he says. The question is, steamboat captain this time) bring- however, \Bow much is far?\ Is ing pure young loves to happiness. brother Van Beuren under the im- pres::;ion that our neutvals are but No one looked forward with any a handful. 01• does he wish that they great enthusiasm to the release of be ignored, regardless of their num- the second promised for Decem- ber? Majo1'ities control govern- ber. ments, so therefore they should be at the helm in colleges, we are Pr0ctor's is now playing that one told. So what? If brother Van and a large sized surprise and sore Beuren is t•he blue blooded 110'7c sides await anyone who sees it. American his letter shows him to Anycme who misses \In Old Ken- be, where are his democratic tucky\ is being unjust to himself ideas'? Is the proportional repre- and to the memory of Will Rogers. sentation that spells democracy evi- Yes, this is a rave. While you can't dent in Union College? Where is say that here is a super, super, the neutral rake-off? art triumph, you can say that 'here Brother Van Beuren bites off more than he can chew when he claims, secondly, that the frats would not be in control if they did not ha\·e a big majority. Who can say? Our guess is that their organ- izations would do right well by themselves in any college, whether or not the fl'aternities represented a majority of the students. is as funny a comedy and as skill- ful a rendering of the peculiar charm of Will Rogers as anything he ever made. The story centers around Rogers as a race horse trainer. But you're wrong. There is ne tea:r jerking over the poor dumb beasts. All is humor and jollity. Rogers has lim- ited his tricks and done more of a straightforward job than in his re- Next bmther Van Beuren says cent pictures. He is supported ·by that it is bet·ter that our interests a decent cast that cavorts and be fraternity-controlled than con- dances <Bill \Bojangles\ Robinson) trolled by ''a few communistically with fine abandon and little real inclined imbeciles.\ These imbeciles. dignity. it is implied, a:re the neutral minor- The lines a:nd story are skilful jty. What connection being a col- comedy workmanship and the audi- lege neutral has to do with corn- ence rose to them continually. Wor- II SECRET SERVICE t Union Night at the DeWitt was quite a success. The high spot of the evening came when that wily Phi Gam, A. S. •of Glen Ridge, seized the micvophone and render- ed his conception of one of our more popular ballads. We would recommend a change of bird-seed. . . . And then there is that Sig flash, T. W., who tried in vain to fill someone else's headgear at the check room. You loolted great, Tom! Also-the Double Quartet could use a new announcer. Some fun, eh, kids! * * * t The Student Tax Committee, that all-lmowing body, has seen to it that justice was meted out once more, and were supported by that all-powerful Stupid Ceuncil. When a member of the Mountebanks ob• jected, one of the Council's more stupid lights came back with the thoroughly political answer of one who knows his rights: \Why shouldn't the Council uphold the Tax Committee? It's the Stupid Council's money, isn't it?\ ... and nothing can be done about it. * * * t While on the question of the Tax Committee, has anything been done about that $4,000· Hole in the Ground up by the Delta Phi House? Each student has approxi- mately $5 in that opening. Justice? * * * t The Union delegation to the Model League Council 'last week- end at Elmira covered themselves with glory-at least Brother Olson had complete control of things in the tonneau. • \' * t The President's Herbert has con- ceived something brilliant-a Date Bureau. The inauguration last Saturday was not what one would call a success-however don't take our word for it, ask the Alpha Delt frosh. . ,. . Issue Editor ............... Fred Feldman 6. Always to give band signals showing my intention of turning to the left, to tbe l'ight. or stopping; and not to leave the curb from a parked }JOsition 1v ithout g·iving a signal. munism no one knows, but inci- thy of special mention was the t The Beta upperclassmen must be dentally, brother Van Beuren playing of Charles Shellon as slipping-or else how did the Frosh showed real Rearst Americanism \Grandpappy.\ The old gentleman get out? And speaking of \getting when he took a crack at the com- is pleasantly insane and hence tries out,\ who got the boys \out\ of munists. 1 Please send American. to shoot everyone on sight. The the local cooler? A tough bunch of flags to G. Van Beuren, care of In only thing is that he is short-' freshmen-going amund breaking The Mail> 'The implication of bra- sighted. I leave the complications chairs over people's heads! Assistant Issue Editors Julius l3ungdus Robert Ferguson Tue::;day, December 10, 1935 ther Van Beuren that neutrals are to you. One of his lines stopped imbeciles may be better explained, the show as much as a moving pic- no doubt, by the scholastic aver- ture can be stopped. \Let me take * * • t Bob Everest just called <there was a distinct note of anxiety in his voice) and asked us not tQ print anything concerning his ac- tivities over the week-end. Our curiosity was aroused-all the more because we have heard noth- ing concerning the Honorable Mr. Everest. A clear case of f\ stricken conscience! ages of our \best\ frats. just one shot at him.\ SHOCK NUMBER TWO The Curriculum Committee of the faculty is announcing thei 1' recent decisions regard- ing changes in the rules and the CUITicula in small doses. Tl1 is fortunate method allows the student bo<i~· to assimilate the new changes more th Ol'oug-hly, and it spreads the shock over a longer time. Just as we we!'e recovering ft·om the an- nouncement of the ambiguous absence rules which will go into effect next year, came the news Friday of what appears to be a shift back to mid-year examinations and semester courses.. According to the Dean's l'epolt, the Cur- riculum Committee has decided to cmwd all final examinations into a pel'iod of one week in June, so tha:t departments who wish to divide their year-courses into two convenient lumps may give \three-hou1· tests\ Ht the end of the first semester. The difference between a week set aside for \three-hour tests\ and an examination week is hal'd to see. It is plain that the committee feels that the liberal experiment which Union has been trying in planning courses of study on a year basis has run long enough. This change is the first reactionary step, a legalizing of the prac~ice of some i11structors who were so w~dded to the old system that they gave what were really 111id-year exams in consecu- tive short tests. Although the committee has not definitely called its shots, it is easy to see where they are aiming-, and the students m·e behind the eight-ball. 7. To be fair to othc>l' cirivers in all re- spects and to refrain front re~kless driving. In most cases the c~Inpaig:Jt was under- taken l.J:y the student ne~A-~spaper of the col- lege, and the wide respo11se in every instance b another indication that co-llege students hnve passed the gin-bottl.: a11d coonskin coat em. During the fi1·st two days of the Yale :'\ews' drive, 908 students si,g11ed the pledge, and all of tht> faculty. The Harvard Cl'imson made national headlines ·when they signed up the fast-driving sons d Pl'esident Roose- velt. Of course. these pledging campaigns do not mean that all who sign ·will be meta- mol-phased into safe drive1·s. any more than all who take the W. C. T. U. pledge will re- frain from drinking. But ~t.s a means for bringing· safety principles to the motorists' attention, and to dramatize the necess.ity for pe1·sonal responsibility, taking the pledge is a worthwhile thing to do. BOOKS Students and friends .of thE college will be given the unusual opportunity to g.et rid of \white elephants\ and also b .purchase valu- able books at extremely lo'\¥ prices, through the efforts of the Faculty Women's Club which will conduct a book sale in the Old Gym Dorm December 13 an.d 14 from 9:00 to 5 :00. This project is one of tlu few which seems to be able to please everyone. Not only can everyone get rid ·Of books for which they no longer have specialase, but in pur- chasing copies which they :11eed Ol' desire they can depart with the ~oJnfortable feel- THE M()DEL LEAGUE ing that they have contdbuted to the schol- arship fund. A delegation of students left the campus The wives of the faculty are doing all the Lest this epistle become too lengthy, we proceed to brother Van Beuren's last paragraph, which tells that he is unbiased, being a mem- ber of no fraternity-at Union. Thif' makes brother Van Beuren a per- fectly ideal martyr, and we suggest that for his bold defense, he be pledged to e\'ery Union frat. Per- haps Mr. Van Beuren's attitude af' regaJods the whole matter might be partially explained by the fact that he may possibly be a disgruntled non-pledgee who is looking for a bid to some fraternity. If this is the case. we hope he gets the bid: he is certainly welcome to it. La·stly there is brother Van BPuren's afterthought. \What kind of a place would this be without fraternities?\ It sure would be tough. Look at Princeton. She has none. And isn't Princeton an awful dump, thoug-h, brother Van Beuran? Just a CQUple of neutrals. John E. Duncan. John A McQuire. To the Editot·: The \Long Step Backwards\ tak- en by the Curriculum Committee in abolishing legalized \cuts\ becomes a, complete retrogression when they announced that hereafter we ' shall have mid-year exams. This action virtually takes away our three-week Cbristmas vacation, for who can enjoy himself with the prospect of mid-years thrust under his nose. Although it may be claimed that no one ~tudies during the Christ- mas vacatons anyway. There are many students who can vouch for the fact that their consciences will not let them spend their time as freely as they might otherwise, with the weight of mid-year exams on them, Merely ta:king a week from the. ordinary final exam period and in- serting it in .January does not iron out all the difficulties. The new system may 'WOI'k very well as re- gards the Math\ematics and Science Division which recommend it, but how can we expect it to operate efficiently in the Social Studies Di- vision where a student would be expected to take three-hour exams . in such subjects as history, govern- ment, and economics in the short space of one week. Friday morning to take part in a meeting of planning and the actual W{)dr, It behooves the Model League of Nations Council at El- the student body to show its a:ppreciatiou by mira College. These men represented the rumaging around for co-ntrib·utions and by college in activity which brought them dropping in with a little s:pa.11e change to use in contact with delegates from nine other for their own edification, and some other colleges. They left the campus quietly with-' student's assistence. I urge the Concordiensis to take advantage ·Of the issues afforded by pressing its view and adopting a crusader spirit. Yours for progressiveness, S. S. Student. The r·est of the bill is in perfect keeping with the feature. Scorn- ing to balance comedy with tra- velogue. or music, the management presents El Brendel in an amusing Technicolor comedy, then comes a Technicolor cartoon that also amuses, PLUS a short of the hum- orist. Robert Benchley, lecturing on sleep, that is an absolute howl. You can see yourself in every one of the situations and if that isn't eno~gh. fun for the price of one admrss10n, ........ .. J. B. D. • * t Psychologists tell us that one often uses a single word to express the thought Qf a sentence or even of a whole paragraph ... Hell! Es, Es & Bee. HOME FOR THE CHRISTMAS J2o .HOLIDAY? rf!Lil kmlk ytmt ~ QU.ICKLY muf ECONOMICALLY Don't spoil tho thrill of getting homo again by worrying about the shipment of your baggage. Solve the problem by leaving everything to Railway Express. We will call for your trunks, bagg<1ge and personal belongings and send them home on fast passenger trains through to,destination. You can take yourtrain home with peace of mind-knowing that your baggage will be there quickly:and safely. Railway Express service is a decided economy in expense, too. After vacation, send your baggage .back the same w~y. We give a receipt on pick-up and take a receipt on de- livery ••• double proof of swift, sure handling. For service or information merely call or tel~hono Cor. WALL & LIBERTY STS. 'PHONE 4-5Gl2 DEPOT OFFICE: N.Y. C. STATION 'PHONE 4-8512 SOHENECTADY, N. Y. RAILWAY EXPRESS AGENCY,. INC. NATION -WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE TUNE IN ON THE RAILWAY EXPRESS NEWS PARADE Every week from the lollowinu stations: WEE! • WOR • WHK • WLS • KWK o WDSU • WFAA WGST • KYA 0 KNX • KSTP • KOMO • WBAL • KOIL Watch for local announcements Coach As To Milano, W Men C Fo The difficult steady and depe squad ·of all but confronUng Co man in these· b ing .for the ope basketball seas' Captain Joe M forwards and c either a guard Nitchman mus1 least seven elig opening game Vermont. Vermont wm from McGill U day while Rocl nent next Sat alumni gymna alumni for th( the basketball very formidabl lenges the unfc Vermont H Much bas to day, the final ised let-up. Tl a tough zone quires three n between baske the court and the distance fi ket. The sysU slow down tl: teams use it 1: against a slop] Saturday a called his squ: skull practice. the offenses Rochester and ed to use in t day and Satu today the pr! to strengthe against the zo be faced Frid! The importa cannot be emr not only will men be tested starters for t season will be vide the coa1 opportunity t1 tried'' player selves. Real Seniors, :Mi! dow and Gl Ken Brown; Podbiel.ski, ( Doyle, Vince scherer all bE group in the basketball. 1 the Vermon1 within a sinl the Garnet ll edly be an e1 The unique made in 1934 of their ba: from home v in over 20 yel In the away ens, and Ha trying. Syrac the only gro1 score a victo year, both v Gymnasium. Because o Vermont sh1 Gill Saturda only fair. 'I group of ve most of wh• test which 1 Sextet Hol On Ice The varsi its first trial iaville, is 1 more and n team, believ Although 01 puck-passin were includ candidates men gave ii is e. Coach La ing the han stick and men to the cutting anc intends to The resel handicap, four veter~ ing in vital set. Howe culty in g the men l last spring Track a1 All thos candidate ming tean report to : ner at t Reynolds or Robert pha lodge ity. The r( agerial S3 in these t\ ing.

J was ot of ,.wily .Idge, nder- , our vould -seed. Sig in to t the rreat, tartet 3eme ittee, m to once that IV hen s ob• more t the one 'Why the tupid and ·Tax done the Phi ·roxi- tice? the reek- elves )!son ~s in con- Date last 'OUld take .lpha >t be 'rash tting H Of :h of king here y in t to ac- Our the toth- Mr. Jken one ·ress =ven ! Bee. THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, DEGEMBER 10, 1935 Coach Nitchman Undeeided ~:~~~titfiql~it~~~c~ee::.~A.A.U. At Annual As ·To St.arti·ng· F··I··ve, Fr:1·,d·a·y· -~ lVIeetingVoteDown ~----------------------------- vVoi·king steadily and petl:listcnt- .. Olymp· l··cs· B· 0 y·c 0 ·.t t ly with a squad broken up by loss , of 111.embers through gr·aduation, Milano, Waldr9n, Men Certain Positions Only ·.·'lr.-··· -,. 1 -N-T-·R-A- .. -M-U-. _R_A_L-----~----- Coach Bill Leonard is holding daHy I practices with his swimming squad Reported Lil~ely That Obsta- of .. ATI-ILETICS •. in hope:; of building up a team in I . . time for the opening meet in Jan- C es Will Remain ill Way Baslfetball Results uary. Left with but three men from Of Participation last year's outfit, since Guy Gris- . wold, last year's captain is out for The difficulty of moulding a; In the second round oef the intra- the basketball team, Coach Leonar·d. steady and dependable team from a, mural basketball tournament, is spending· much of his time in• squad ·of all but two untried men is. Theta Delta Chi nosed out Beta developing the younger candidates· conjjmnting Coach Nelson Niteh-'. Theta Pi by a score of 16 to 15, of the team. Kennedy, •Fa elton and' man in these· hectic ·days of train- while Kappa Sigma deJiealed Phi• Captain Keens are the only h0kl-. ing for the opening of the varsity' Gamma Delta in an.other ·close over::;, but Meyers, a soph0mor e,, basketball season. Only certain of game, the final scove being 19 to: promises to be a regular performer Captain Joe Milano as one of his l:l. The next day, Psi Bpsilon de\ before the season is over. forwards and of Van Waldron as: cisively overcame South College 22i As matters are now working, Ed either a guard or a center, Coach Nitchman must decide ·between at: to 11 and Sigma Phi w<m from Al-' morning session, while Iilr. Leonard least seven eligible starters for the; pha Delta Phi by a score of 12 to assumes coaching duties in the aft-• 9. Behind the brilliant shooting of ernoon workout. The team, while opening game Friday night with Naguszewski, the Neutrals swamp- weak in several departments, is no- Vermont. ed Phi Sigma Kappa by the o•,rer-: ticeably lackl:ng In back and breast Vermont won its opening game whelming score of 52 to 25. Phi stroke material, a:nd it is in these from McGill University last Satur- Sigma Delta also won :by a large fields that coaching is being pa1·- day while Rochester, Union's oppo- score when they took the Sigma ticularly stressed. nent next Saturday night in the· Chi five over to the tune of 43 The team this year will meet alumni gymnasium., defeated its to 10. · seven opponents, the schedule run-. alumni for the unofficial start ·of High scoring honors went to ning from the last of January until the basketball schedule. It is that: Hallstrom of Kappa Sigma, Kad- late in February. Four of the en- very formidaJble record which chal- zas of South College, Naguszewski counters will take place at home .. lenges the unformed Garnet quintet. of the Neutrals, and Dworslty of the remaining three to be swum in Vermont Has zone Defense Phi Sigma Delta. foreign pools. The schedule this Lineups year includes: Tl'inity, Williams, Much has to be done in the next Theta Delta Chi G F p Colgate, Syracuse, Rochester, R. P. day, the final one before a prom- Rehberg , , . , ... , ... , ..... , 1 0 2 I., and Swarthmore, in that order. ised let-up. The Catamounts have. Burnham ................. 1 0 2 ---0--- a tough zone defense, which re- Dwyer ............. , ....... D 1 1 quires three men to play mid-way Ha:lliday .... , .. , .......... 2 1 5 between basket and the center of Phillipe ............ , .. , .. , 1 o 2 the court and two men about half Weile ..................... 0 0 0 the distance from them to the bas-. Reichal ............... , ... 2 o 4 ket. The system has been said to Totals .. , ....... , ... , . . . . 7 2 16 slow down the game, but many Bet3 Theta Pi G F p teams use it because it is effective Brown, E. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 1 3 against a sloppy passing group. Geer .................. , . . . 2 2 6 Sa.turday afternoon Nitchman Terhune · · · ·. · ·. . . . . . . . . . . . 1 0 2 called his squad together for some Derrick · .. ·.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 skull practice. H:e outlined for them Maxwell · · · · · · · . · · . · .... - . . 1 0 2 the offenses and defenses which Templeton ............... , 1 0 2 Rochester and Vermont are expect- Sanderson · · · · · . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 ed to use in their games here Fri- Krull · · · · · · · · · · · · · ...... - . . 0 0 0 day and Saturday. Yesterday and Totals·············-····· 6 315 today the practices were devoted Kappa Sigma\ * G F p to strengthening the offenses H against the zone defense which will · allstrom · · · · · · · · · · ·- · · - · · 3 1 7 be faced Friday. Clark · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·- · · - · · 1 0 2 Morrison ............• , , . . . 0 1 1 The importan.ce of the first game Carr ................. _ .. _ . . 2 1 .5 cannot be emphasized too much, for Zuhr ... , ............ _ . , . . . 0 0 () not only will the a.bilities of the Potts ................ _.. . . . 0 o o men be tested, but th.e best possible Kopf ... , ............ _ . . . . . o 0 o starters for the remainder of the Fa elton ............. _ . . . . . 2 0 4 seasonwillbeselected. Itwillpro- Godfrey .................... o 0 0 vide the coach with an excellent 'J.'otals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 o o opportunity to jugde how his \un- Phi' Gamma Delta G F p tried'' players can handle them- Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 1 7 selves. Sands . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 0 6 Real Test Friday Seniors, Milte Priznar, Bill Bran- dow and Guy Griswold; junior, Ken Brown; and sophomores, Ted Podbielski, Grant Smith, George Doyle, Vince Smith and Phil Duch- scherer all belong to the \untried\ group in the category of college basketball. Their baptism against the Vermont team which came within a single point of defeating the Garnet last year will undoubt- edly be an enlightening one. The unique record the Dutchmen made in 1934 by winning every one of their basll:.etball games away from home was the first one made in over 20 years by any Union team. In the away games Vermont, Stev- ens, and Hamilton were the most trying. Syracuse and Clarkson were the only groups which were able to score a victory over the Garnet last year, both winning in the Alumni Gymnasium. Because of the strength which Vermont showed in trimming Mc- Gill Saturday, the Union outlook is only fair. The Green team has a group of veterans from last year, most of whom played in the con- test which Union won 24 to 23. ---o,--- Sextet Holds First Practice On lee Rink at Mariaville The varsity hockey squad, a.fter its first trial on the ice-rink at Mar- ia ville, is beginning to shape up more and more into a fair-looking team, believes Coach Art Lawrence. Although only the fundamentals of puck-passing, shooting and skating were included in the drills of the candidates Saturday, some of the men gave indications of good prom- ise. Coach Lawrence has been stress- ing the handling of the long hockey stick and the ac.climation of the men to the intricacie.s of twisting, cutting and dodging on skates. He intends to keep a squad of 12 men. The reserves will be the greatest handicap. The first squad, with four veterallS from last year play- ing in vital positions, is pretty well set. However, there will be diffi- culty in getting replacements for the men lost through graduation last spring. ---0•---- Track and Swimming Notice All those interested in becoming candidate managers of the swim- ming team and track team should report to Professor J. Harold Witt- ner at the gymnasium, Forrest Reynolds at the Sigma Phi place, or Robert Nelson a.t the Kappa Al- pha lodge at the earliest opportun1 ity. The recent revision of the man- agerial system makes competition in these two sports unusually in vit- ing. Glen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ·o 0 0 Blue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 Clifton .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. . 0 0 0 Keens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 Robert ...... , ... , . . . . . . . . . 2 0 4 Totals ................... 8 1 17 * .. Phi Upsilon G H. Duchscherer .......... 1 Gane ...... , ... , .. , . . . . . . . . 2 Hawkes . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 • A. Stevenson .............. 1 Cadwallader ............... 1 Burrell .................... 4 Gatchell . . . . . . . . . . . 1 W. Fet·guson .............. (} Jones .............. _ . . . . . . 0 Baker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Hatch ..................... {} A. Grant .................. 0 Masterson . . . . . . . . . . . . .... 0 Totals ................... 11 Routh College G Cobb ...................... 0 Karizas .. .. . .. .. . .. .. .. .. . 4 Enzer ... , . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . 0 Annese .................... 1 Bundgus .................. 0 Totals . . . . . . . . . . . ... 5 * * * Sigma Phi G Bowie . . . . . . . . . . . . . ....... 1 Palmer ............ _ ....... 1 Kruesi .................... 2 Sto1,1ghton .................. 0 Borden ........... , _ .... , .. 0 Wells .............. _ ....... 1 DeWitt .. , ...... , . , • , , .... , 0 Totals ........... _ ....... 5 Alpha Delta Phi G Sheilds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Shepard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Hughes .......... , .... , . . . 1 C. Little .................. 0 Dennett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 H. Grant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Hart ...................... 0 Mulcare . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 McEnerny . , ..... , . , , . . . . . . 1 Fox ....................... 0 Totals ....... , .. , . , .. , . , . 4 .. FP 0 2 0 4 0 ~ 0 2 0 2 0 8 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 22 FP 0 0 1 9 0 0 0 2 0 0 111 FP 2 4 0 2 .() 4 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 2 12 FP i 5 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 1 9 Neutrals G F P Le Tarte ... , ......... , . . . 5 () 10 Naguszewski . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 1 19 Colby ............ _ , .•. , .. , 4 1 9 Ross ................. , . . . . 2 0 4 Lambeth .. , . , . , .... , • , , . , . 1 0 2 Helling ........... _ ...... , . 0 0 0 Greulick ........ , _ , .. , , . . . 4 0 ~ Page . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 Totals .... , .. , ... , , , ..... 25 2 52 Phi Sigma Rappa G F P Van Dyke ................ 0 0 0 Waldron . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 Eaton ..................... 0 0 0 Hull ....................... 6 1 13 Boychuck . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 3 0 6 Neumann . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 3 0 6 Totals . . . . . . . . . . . .. , ....• 12 1 25 * * Phi Sigma. Delta G F P Dwore .................... 2 0 4 ·Gold .. ' ' . ' ... ' ' ' - ' ' \ . ' . ' . . 6 0 12 Worthman ...... _ ......... 0 0 0 Dworsky ........ _ . . . . . . . . . 4 0 8 Friedman ................. 1 0 2 Schultz . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . 3 1 7 Lifset .. , , .. , . . . . . ... , . . . . . 0 0 0 Salad .. , .... , . . . . . .. , . . . . . . 3 0 6 Galuten .........•...... , .. 2 0 4 Totals •.• , .•.....••.• , , •. 21 l 43 Bill J(etz Brings Report 0 f A. A. U. Olympic Debate One of the hottest debates within the Amateur Athletic Union was personally reported by Professor Wilford H. Ketz, who attended the :,essions of the meeting during the memmable weekend. Viewing without prejudice the factions arguing for and against the participation of the United States in the forthcoming Olympic games in Berlin, Coach Ketz de- clared that the sentiment of the body gathered in the Hotel Com- modore Saturday and Sunday was overwhelmingly in favor of Amer- ica's going into the Olympics. The attitude of the coaches and representatives from colleges was decidedly for the games, he said, pointing out that the Intercol- legiate Amateur Athletic Associa- tion of America voted solidly for the. Olympics, with only one excep- tion. \It was a very stiring meeting,\ Coach Ketz said, \and perhaps one of the greatest fights in the A.A.U.\ He was very much impressed by the sincerity of Aaron Steuer's ef- forts to achieve a compromise in the hotly argued debate. The mix- up in the amendments and the vot- ing against the Steuer compromise was the turning point of the meet- ing said Professor Ketz. Anti-Olympic Delegates Leave As soon as the anti-Olympic dele- gates heard the results of the vote on Steuer's amendment they left the meeting place, and the accept- ance of the original Gustavus T~ Kirby resolution was then a per- functory matter. The college men in the ICAAAA held to the attitude that the oppor- tunities for competition in the Olympic games was a rare event in collegiate athletic history, and that there was no good reason for de- priving young college athletes· of such opportunities-so long as there was no discrimination against American athletes. Professor Ketz attended the sma.ll committee meetings on Friday af- ternoon, and sat in on the discus- sion held by the 150 delegates from the 31 sections of the country. Each district may send si xmen to the convention. So close was the vot· ing, said Ketz, that the pre!3ence or absence of one or two delegates made a great difference in the re- sult. Sig·ma Chi G McGee , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Hasbrook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Engesser . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Barringer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Burgess . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Rhinehart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Mitchell . , , .... , . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Estrich . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Stewart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Totals ...... , . , . , .. , , . . . . 4 Schedule FP 1 7 0 0 1 1 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 10 7:30-Sigma Phi vs. South Col- lege. 8:30--Neutrals vs. Kappa Nu. Tomorl'Ow Nig.ht 7:30-·Phi Sigma Delta vs. North College. 8:30-Chi Psi vs. Delta Chi. For House Linen Service PHONE !l-3166 American Coat, Apron & Laundry Co. 1030 Bll.rrett St. CHARLES' Formerly ED'S The Official Union College Barber for the past 26 years. As!~ anv up.per classmen, they !mow. fl operators. Schenectady's greatest barber. COR. STATE AND BROADWAY Denounce Ge1·many Decision, Though Favoring Our Entry, Decrys Con· dition of Country In an atmosphere charged with hostility, Sunday the pro-Olympic. participation force:; at the 47th an- nual convention of the Amateur Athletic Union of the United States held at the Hotel Commodore in New York City stood off the last challenge of the boycott advocates, and then went on record as favor-: ing the Arne rican participation in the 1936 Olympics in Germany. Following up their victory, achiev- ed after a two-day debate that was perhaps the bitterest in A. A. U •. history, the pro-Olympic delegates. promptly returned Avery Brundage of Chicago to. the presidency which· he vacated in 1934 following six years in office. Brundage, who also i:; presif;lent of the American Olym- pic committee,. replaced Jeremiah T. Mahoney of New York, leader· of the Olympic boycott movement and· foe of Nazi-Ism. Mahoney, who withdrew as a can- didate for re-election after the re- jection of his leadership, subse- quently issued a statement, declar- ing \the fight against American participation in the games in Ger- many must be continued, as the only way of preserving the Olym- pic ideal.\ He claimed a \moral victory\ charged his opponents were afraid to face the facts and announced his intention personal to hlep carry on the boycott move- ment. May Face Obstacles So strong is the sentiment within as well as without the A. A. U. that it appeared lilceiy the program for full American Olympic participa- tion would continue to meet with obstacles, ,financial and otherwise. Samuel K. MacCabee, chairman of the move-the-Olympics committee, issued the following statement: \In a clash of principles the foes are not conquered. The very clo·se vote is a mandate to continue the fight to prove. that sportsmanship is bigger than sport. The move- ment for a counter Olympiad will probably gain impetus from this close vote.\ The final decision of the A. A. U., while removing the last official bar- rier to American entry in the elev- enth Olympiad, nevertheless carried with it a strong denunciation of ex- isting conditions in Germany, be- silles calling upon all constituted Olympic authorities to maintain \Vigilance\ and specifically re.cord- ing that the sending of this coun- try's athletes will involve no en- dorsement of the \principles or practices of the Nazi government.\ Passage of the resolution em- bodying this attitude, as presented to the convention by Gustavus T. Kirby of New York, was made per- functorily unanimous after advo- cates of non-participation lost the final battle of ballots. Previously the fo.rces opposed to holding the Olympics in Germany had rejected the Kirby resolution, put forward yesterday as a compromise, and characterized it as \picayune and pussyfooting.\ Many refrained from voting on the Kirby resolution which was carried without audible opposition on an \aye\ and \nay\ vote. The non-participation and anti- Nazi forces, for the second straight <Continued on Page 4) Please mention THE CONCORDIENSIS when you patronize its advertisers JAMES E. DAY, Optician Prescriptions Filled or Duplicated General Repair Work 604 Union St., Cor. :Ba.rrett St. 3 Bloclts Below College Gate PHONE 2-3464. Interr?sted i1z Schenectady lulensted i11 UNION Maurice B. Graubart The Jay Street Jeweler 166 ]A Y STREET Watcl1 and Jewelry Repairing a Specialty Fencing S(}uad Practices AfterU()()US and Evenings Finding h.is afternoons taken up too much with the teaching of fun· tla.mentals.to.the inexperienced can- didates on h. is fencing squad, Coach Von Forstrne;rer is inaugurating a new system at Union, an.d is bold' ing night i>VUCtices with the more adept pupils in his school of swonlsmanship. This will naturally help to build up the team towards perfection in time for the opening match, ea.t:ly in January, and will give Mr. V0on Forstrneyer an oppor- tunity to watch the individual work of the members, as well as to show them the :fine points of the art which ·could not be accomplished. dming the crowded afternoon hours in the gym. · The squa.d• as yet has assumed no definite >lineup for its engage- ments, and. there is much hard work ahead before the first test is encountered. '!'he freshmen, who are working r·igbt along with the upperclassnaen·-·fencing not yet be- ing recognized as a varsity sport at Union-have shown the need of attentive coaching, although the work of Ca..piello, a first year man, has been <mtstanding among the whole squad, and with a little teaching 'he should step to the fore within the next ye:.r or so. Cap- tain Righter, of course, will assume one position of the squad, and Law- rence has displayed some .form which should earn him a post. Mr. VQn Forstmeyer has already arranged several practice engage- ments with the fencing teams of several \Y. :M. C. A.'s of the vicinity. These will .probably be held later this montb, the dates not having been definitely fixed, and will help to prove the condition and skill of the team before it enters its sched- ule, which includes Army, Colgate- Williams, :and Hamilton among its list of opponents. Conection I'h.ree NOTES ON OUR CON1'EM:PORARIES Increase When physlcai education was made non-compulsory at the Uni- versity of Califomia, emollment in the department jumped 1,800. 1\laggot ~he typical Harvard• man is \an indifferent old maggot with a funny accent,\ says the uni·versity~s <Vlumni bulletin. Start Dime novels got their start to- wal•d populal'ity as Sunday school literature, according to Frank K. Walter, Univet·sity ·of Minnesota ii- brarian. Higher Averaging a full point higher in their grades than their non-work- ing fellows are students receiving NY A assistance. lndependent Stuart Manley, University of Cali- fornia sophomc>re, is a rnan without a country. Born in Japan of Ameri- can parents, lie is a citizen of neither country. Lack New Jersey is one of the few states in the Union which has neither a medical nor a dental school. Prove It! Go a:head and sleep. A CCNY professor of ph Hosophy is quoted as saying those who sleep in class learn more. Behind Time Baker University hopes to build a. stadium with the help of-a penny chain letter! Sharpshooters . The pioneer spirit is not yet dead m New England. Sixty-five co-eds are out for the rifle team at the University of Vermont. Bell A bell cast by Paul (Here Come the British) Revere used to wake students at Colby College in Maine. Page Poy-Eye In the financial statement for Spinach is the fastest-selling fall sports published in The Con- vegetable in the student cafeteria cordiensis for Friday, December at Georgia's Emory University, 10, the following items were in- With Accent? correctly printed: the net profit Harvard has started a course for figure in both tables should be stammerers. $696.85 instead of $666.85; expendi- Bat.iie ture for supplies for freshman ' Vanderbilt Phi Psis and Betas cross-courr tvy should read $85.76 in- had a private war recently with stead of $80.76; and, $468.70 rather eggs, <old), mud balls and garden than $742.10. hose. 'I'ui tion Notice The ftnal payment of tuition is du€ Monday, December 16th. Any payrnen t made after the above date will be subject to the 11sual fine for late pa.y- ment. The Comptroller's Office will be open. Monday for the collec- tion of fees from 8:30-11:45 a. m. a;nd 1-4:45 p. m. * Fish To win a $3 bet, a former Uni- versity of Minnesota swimming team captain swam 225 feet under water. Gate Ohio State~s champ football team brought in $300,000 at home games this year. Chislers An average of $10 in slugs is taken from the Northwestern Uni- versity library yearly, Get New Low·Fares i Other Information From Greyhound Agent These big reductions cf!'ec- tive nearly everywhere. Dr. op i~, or telephone for 1pe~ific d~ta~. Greyhound Terminal 227 State Street Ph.: Sch'dy 4-5521 UllOM COLLEGE Book Store Room 5-Administration BuildinCJ OJ~rtatttttta ~ifts COLLEGE SEAL JEWELRY' FOUNTAIN PENS FELT PENNANTS, BANNERS, PILLOW CASES CALENDAR fopillar Priced Leisure Reading Books l'lours: 8:45-1 2:00 I: 15-5:00

Four Tl!E CONCORDIENSIS,. TUESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1935 A A U V t D poser of the past or present. W·hat . . .. .. 0 . 0 es own a glorious tribute to a man -wbo· Olympl .CS ».' O Y CO: t t· has reached the heights in ml.lsi.e. D And last night's performance of I :Larrabee to Read Paper Delegates Attend League Mark Anniversary Of A.t Philosophers' Meeting --- N@ted Roman Ode-writer pleasures which, at one time he certainly did :not di~dain. his second symphony evidenced the reason for his· fame. (Continued from Page 3) Sibelius has w1•itten that he does day, met defeat on a proposal to not wish his symphonies to be send a three-man investigating, identified with authentic Finnish commis;;ion to Germany and to folk tunes. Nor do they relate a. withhold final Olympic action pend- saga of his country. But it seems ing its findings on charges of racial that notwithstanding his pre<ea~-· as well as religious discrimination. tions, the germ of rugged, Finnish: under the Hitler government. This. sunoundings has injected i tselt proposal, aimed as a compromise, into his symphonies. There is i.n: was placed before the convention· the second symphony a great a11d: by Supreme Cour·t J.ustice Aaron powerful saga, perhaps the stor-y Steuer of New York, a delegate of of the glorification of a hero, tbe: the Jewish welfare board. delineation of his trials and tdb~- The vote to reject the Steuer pro-· lations, with a great funeral cel~- 5 5 ft ll t bration and a tumultuous trumpet: posal was 8~ to 5 'h a er a: a - heraldry which, stated first in the· tempts to brin gabout a reconcilia- Professor Harold A. Larrabee of the Department of Philosophy, is to tead a paper at the 35th annual meeting of the American Philoso- ph.ical Association to be held at tbe John Hopkh1s University, Balti- mot'e, Maryland, from Decernbet' 29 to 31. It will be the first of three paJ>ers forming a session devoted to the philosophy of history, am! Wi II deal with \Pareto and the 'Pemperamental Interpretation of History.\ I)J. ·Larrab\e completed last year a term of three years as Secretary- Treasurer of the Association, which consists of about four hundred col- lege and university teachers of ph.ilosophy in the eastern United States. ----0·----- Chemistry Students At National Exposition tion of opposing views had failed. slow movement, mounts to the Thus there was a margin of only climax of the stirring finale. :It is two and one-half votes on the crit- conceivable to find in this trea.-t- ical and final convention roll-call, ment, especially with the rectu- as compar·ed with the advantage of renee of the trumpet theme whic:h· si xand a fraction votes obtained is like a paean to greatness, !be Saturday by the pro-Olympic forces story of the death of a god, similar in tabling the original boycott reso- in spirit at least to the last ]la:it lution. Saturday's vote was 61 53-60 of Siegfried's death in Gotterdaoo- to 55 7-160. merung. It is impossible in .the ()n Friday and Saturday, Decem- limited space here to comment ·e::x- ber 6 and 7, the Department of Again the so-called \allied bod- haustively upon this symph<m:y. (!hemistry conducted an inspection ies,'' by voting 1[) to 1 againBt the: Despite Sibelius' warnings, the trip for students specializing in Steuer proposal, furniBhed the bal- music is seeped in the melancholia chemistry to New York City, a ance of power. They offset an in- and verdantly forestral chaz•acte.r- party of ten under the supervision crea~ed majority among the active istics of Finland. Technically tbe of Charles B. Hurd attending the district associations of the A. A. U. symphony has a style of its ow7l!. Exposition of Chemical Industries in sup pol t of the non-participation· It is cyclic, with Sibelius recapit;u- at the Grand Central Palace. This side. With 32 of the 34 district A. lating the entire work in the fi!l>al. is n bi-ennial exposition at which A. U. bodies voting, each with three bars of the last movement, again the newest features of chemical in- votes, the tally was 54% to 41% in reinforcing the possibility t>f a dustry and allied subjects are favor of the Steuer proposal to in- glorification of a hero. The instr;u- · shown. The high note appear-d to vestigate conditions in Germany be- mentation is heavy and overbea..:r- be a bottle of ascorbic acid, or vi- fore sanctioning American Olympic ing, but it is this very factor tamin C, as it usually known. It is participation. which makes the symphony !be ex:pected that this will prove very <Continued from Page 1) __ _ The Model League of Nations' sembly has adopted the regular (Continued from Page 1) League of Nations' style of pro- he held ·in affectionate regard. Of cedure. The addresses, however, are the many love affairs to which' he of a more informal nature. The As- aHudes in :his writings it is safe sembly at Elmira devoted much of to assume that some are imagin- its time to discussing the Italo- ary and the rest not too serious. Ethiopian question and finally He gives the impression of having agreed to force fuH sanctions on outgrown in his later life not only Italy including embB~rgoes on coa I, the violence of .passion, but also oil, copper, iron and cotton. the taste for dissipation, and hav- Horace died. ir1 November, 8 B. C., having almost completed his fifty-seventh year and was buried on the EsqlLline Hill near the tomb of li!Iaec enas. Horace's works comprise fOUl' books of odes, o·ne of epodes, two of satire, two of epistles, the Car- men Saeculare, and De Arte Poet- lea. His .true claim to lyric fame rest in his odes. His ingenuity, his subtle choice of epithets have won the admiration of succeeding gen- !lrations, Established him as a text- boolr. in S'eh<lols, and compelled the flattery of translators and hnlta- Pro.fessm· Howard Smyth who ing brought himself ·by degrees to accompanied the .group as sponsor find more delight in good company has replaced Dr. Phillip Mosely in. and philosophy than in the looser this capacity. --------------------~~~---------------- tors alike. In the afternoon, the party was taken through the plant of the Na- tional Sugar Refining Company of . New Jersey. The students who attended the exposition were: P. G. Lipps '39, C. E. Bingraff '39, J. P. MengeJ.I '39, W. V. Day '38, M. W. Wilson '38, J. R. Jrcioranello '37, W. A. Den-, nison '37, W. Gopcynski '37, T. D.' Moore '37, A. W. Balter '37. FOUNTAIN PENS Parker Waterman Wahl Sheaffer PENS REPAIRED LYON'S When you come o\.\.IGI back after ~e aaC XMAS e 0 \ ~,o~ G~~o SPECIAL'' These special school and college rail you can u:;;c the return coupon to tickets, with theirliberalextended,re- travel hame.again or use it at closa turn limits,areimmenselypopularwith of school. and a great saving to students and The ticket agent in your own .town, teachers. When you're ready to come or any rai I road passenger repro· bock ·after Christmas, buy one and &entative .can give you full details save a third of the regular two-way regarding return limits, stop-over fare. When Spring Holidays come, privileges, prices, etc. The Safe Way is the Railwcay The balance of votes, cast by for- unique product it virtually is. l>r. useful in the treatment of sc.urvy mer presidents and secretaries of Koussevitsky and the orchestra aud allied diseases. The small bot- the A. A. U. added 1% votes to the are to be loudly applauded for tle-ful was quoted as worth $8,000, pro-Olympic total with a quarter giving u.s such a thrilling rea<llr:i.g and contains the equivalent of vote to the opposition. ~o~f~th~~~·s~h~i~g~h~ly~o~ri~g~in~a~l ~s~c:_:o~r~·e:· --~~th~c~u:s~a~n~d~s~o~f~o~r~a~n~g~e~s.:_· ------~=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:~~===============================- ---+ 236 State St. ASSOCIATED Tel. 4·8647 EASTERN RAUROADS Large Group Lauds Boston Symphony \Continued flom Page lJ 1902. Kogel has taken five of the urigmal nine movements of the concerto from the edition of Chry- sander, and marked explicit phras- ing and bowing inclications, filled in certain voices, and added an occasional embellishment in the notation. Unlike usual editions where undue liberty has been taken, Kogel is respectful of Han- del's intention~. He is careful and sufficiently accurate to make hi;; emendations fit in to the music just as if the composer him.self had placed them in the score. Dr. Kous:;evitsk>· emphasized the noble, ~lately, qualities of Handel's mW:J!c where demanded and drew from the orchestr-cL a I kh, ~olemn, and poignantly dutching tun~ m the <>low pa;,- ,;age:;. He 1 evived the art uf Han- tid in the VeJY :;ctting and. spirit in which it was Wl itten. This xnu:;ic was majestic; courtly, and. ,yet always fluwing with an ease which made it humble in the face uf all grandeu1. Attention was then turned to the rococo music of that boister- ous, lovable, Croatian peasant, Franz Josef Haydn. His symphony in G, No. 88, is frequently per- formed and enjoys the favor of all who are acquainted with it. The first theme of the main body of the opening allegro is so similar to the theme employed by Beetho- ven in the finale of the eighth symphony that it was all but im- possible to refrain from hum- ming the sequence to the ante- cedent phrase. The wonderful largo, about which Brahms is re- ported to have said \I want my ninth symphony to be Hke this ... \ aJmost a floating swan song swell- ing on an unseen wave, was not played last night. 1t was breathed -breathed out from a group of inanimate lungs transformed into animacy for the far too brief dur- ntion of that music. The minuet, typical of the kind composed by Haydn, was taken at ·the only seemingly po.ssible tempo. Dr. Koussevitsky seemed to have felt that no other interpretation could be extracted from these pages. And the finale! How that orches- tra ran thmugh that shouting rondo, with its recurring theme .stealing into the picture at every unexpected tum lilte an impish Puck playing pranlts. Here was Haydn at his best. The orches- tration was dazzling with color. The main theme pounced in and just as suddenly disappeared to allow for a contrasting section. The whole movement was so gay and crisp and thoroughly articu- late despite its breath-taking pace, that it wound up a symphony of gaiety mixed with the pathos of the slow movement with a joyous finish, if only joyous and exuber- ant in the reserved fashion of the eighteenth century. The important part of the pro- gram was reserved for after the intermission. This was the Sibel- ius symphony, coming at a proPit- ious time when the entire musical world is toasting Sibelius, the occasion being his seventieth birth- day. It was no Jess revelatory to Lawrence Gilman than to the di- rectors of the New York Philhar- monic Orchestra that in their re- cent radio poll, Sibelius received more votes than any other com- The proof of the cigarette is in the smoking . • . and it always will be Smokers-both men and women- want a cigarette to be mild-yet not flat or insipid. At the same time they want a cigarette that gives them taste-- taste they can enjoy. Chesterfields are outstanding for mild· ness-outstanding /or better taste. You can find that out by smoking them .. : : jLt \tlvrt ~ _,Chesterfields are what they say they are • Vol. LIX. Fresh: Main Propo College ( Intro' Fo Other List Incl1 Gathe l Union C man Cam gram ann christian to the col program, establishn: list.s plan Forums, I in Schem erings wi leges, Sm ers, the and an E Althoug man carr everyone are an in tation pr leading c1 New Yorl St. Lawr• more, D freshman ceding tl college t: man cam Sta Tuesda; faculty D Associati• traveling student speak o: also saw by Mr. S Colgate : Mr. ::: freshmar of acqca the col!~ Accordin man can four or : ceding tl camp is of stude expense freshmal for boar camp si the near At all a regula cussions mal, arE various letic cor held. Ab althougl on frat one day ulty vi: prof esse camp. In c Sweetm of a fre the ca1 environ men m their c perclas: and ec The frE college unrestr ( Hol Fro I tis both h often • pation to the specia mathe as rnu he is i well-k the c, men. are n• they these to the is to The are o! fields SOl' 0 ure o and his r from On tl

.me he ~, 8 B. ed his buried ar the e four es, two 1e Car- e Poet- 3 fame ity, his ~e won Lg gen- a tex;t- led the i itn!ta- 1. :o \' ,, ,. Is >r • • trnsts Vol. LIX., No. 25 UNION COLLEGE,. SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1935 PRICE FI\ CENTS Freshman Camp Is.· Main Feature Of Proposed Program,' College Christian Association' Introduces New Ideas For Coming Year· Other Plans Outlined List Includes Sunday Evening · Gatherings, Sonugfests, Usual Forums CALENDAR Today •7·: 30 p. m.-College Christian . Association Meeting, Room 20, North College. 8:30 p. m.-Varsity Basketball,· Union vs. Vermont, Alumni Gymnasium. Mountebanks Performance, \Both Your Houses,\ Albany Academy. '9:{)0 a. m.c5:DO p. m.-Book Sale Conducted by Faculty Wom- en's Club, Old Gym Dorm. Tomoi'l'OW 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly, Memorial Chapel, Cadman His- lop, '29. 8:00 p. m.-Varsity Basketball, Union vs. Rochester, Alumni Gymnasium. 9.00 a:. m.-5:00 p. m.-Book Sale, Further Changes In. C11rriculum Made By Faculty :Geoup Exemption Tests Extended to Allow Two Year Credit in Modern Language Geology for Freshmen Sophomore Course in Science And Mathematics :Division Made More F.Jexible Union College will have a Fresh- by Faculty Women's Club, Another list of changes decided man Camp next year, if a pro-: Old Gym Dorm. by the curriculum committee of the gram announced this week by the Srmday faculty has been announced by Christian Association is agreeable 11:(}0 a. m.--Sunday Service, Dean Charles F. F. Garis. to the college administration, This :M:usical program under direc· The latest changes in the curri- program, besides providing for the tion of Dr. Tidmarsh, Memo- culum make it possible next year establishment of a freshman camp, rial Chapel. for an entering freshman to be ex- lists plans for the usual College 4 :00 p. m.-Organ Recital, Dr. erupted from not only one year of Forums, leadership of Boys Clubs Tidmarsh, assisted by the wor-k in a modern ·language but in Schenectady, joint social gath- Union College Choir, Memo-- · twG, if he qualifies by exemption erings with nearby women's col- rial Chapel. te~ts. Freshmen and so-phomores leges, Sunday evening get-togeth- S.:OO p. m.-Annual Christmas in the social studies division may ers, the Christmas Song Festival Song Festival, under direction elect Latin or Greek as a language, and an Easter Pageant. of Dr. Tidmarsh, Memorial and anyone in college will be able Although the subject of fresh· Chapel. to take geology for at least one man camps is probably new to Monday year. The curriculum for the everyone at Union, frosh camps Mathematics and Science division, are an integral part of the orien· 11:CO a.m.-Radio Debate, Wells s{lphomore year, will omit English tation programs of many of the College vs. Union College, 10 as a required subject, will re- leading colleges of the country. In Memorial Chapel. quire only two courses in science New York state, Cornell, Syracuse, 7:30 p. m.--Debate, Skidmore instead of three, thus pro·viding for· St. Lawrence, Colgate, and many College vs. Union College, the choosing of two electives where more, now operate successful Memorial Chapel. none were allowed before. freshman camps in the week pre· Band Meeting, Trophy Room, \On the recommendation of the ceding their formal opening. No Gymnasium. Division of Language and Litera- college that has tried the fresh- ture it was voted to extend the ex- man camp has ever dropped it. · emption tests in modern languages State Secretary Speaks Mountebanks Open' to include one more year of work, Tuesday evening, student and : 01aldng it possible for an entering faculty members of the Christian R: oa.d Tour Tont\ght student to be exempted in either Association heard Ray Sweetman, . one year or two year's work in traveling secretary for the state . rno·dern languages.\ student Christian Association, \On the recommendation of the speak Gn freshman camps, and Cast Remains Same for \Both· ])ivision of Social Studies, it was also saw several reels of film talten voted to add Latin and Greek to by Mr. Sweetman this year at the Yoar Houses\ iu Perform- . the freshman and sophomore and Colgate Freshman Camp. ance at Albany Academy language g!OUP::> in lhe curriculum Mr. Sweetman described the for the Division.\ freshman camp as the best means Geology Inclu(led of acqcainting the freshman with The Mountebanks will open their \On the recommendation of the the college and its requirements .. season on the road tonight as they Di vi::;ion of 1\lathcma tic::; and Sci- According to Mr. Sweetman, fresh- .Present their first productions. ence, it wa::> voted to include Geol- man camps are. usually held in the Max:well Anderson's \Both Your ogy 1 as an elective in the scirnce four or five days immediately pre- Houaes\ at the Albany Academy gt·oup offered to freshmen in the ceding the opening of college. The under the auspices of the Academy cttuicula of the Di.l'i:\inns nf Lnn- camp is run by a staff composed Forum. guage and Literature, Social Stud· of students and faculty. It is no The actors were put through a ies, and Mathema tirs and Science expense to the college since the pick-up rehearsal Wednesday night with the understanding that fresh- freshman pay a small sum to care C men desiring to major in Geology for board and other expenses. The by director Edward L. arroll, but will follow the program for maJ'ors • 1 t no changes were made in the actual' . h camp site 1s genera ly a one of. staging. The Academy production, m. t e field of geology and post- the nearby boys' camps. pone the election of the subject to At all camps, Mr. Sweetman ~aid, however, will be done in a drape their sophomore year. The new a regular program is followed. Dis- set rather than in the regular scene ruling now makes it po~sible for cussions, both formal and infor-. because of difficulties peculiar to everyone outside of the electrical mal, are held; talks are given on the Albany stage. engineering department to study various phases of college life; ath- No change has been made in the geology at least one year. Ietic contests, hikes, and trips are original cast, whose members in- On the recommendation of the held. Ab.solutely no rushing is done, elude: Marjorie Grey, Mrs. Philip Division of Mathematics and Sci- although a disinterested discussion W. Sayles; Bus, Miss Bethia L. ence the following revised curricu- on fraternities may be held. On Doyle; Eddie Wister-, Wallace T. lum for freshman and sophomores one day of the camp a special fac- Foote; Soloman Fitzmaurice, J .. in the division was approved: The ulty visitation is held for those Laurence Hennessey; Mal'lt, George ;five courses for- the freshman year professors not on the staff of the P. Hart; Simeon Grey, S. Ralph will include English 1, Mathematics camp. Cohen; Levering, Bernard H. Salad; 2, one course from (a) French 1 In concluding his talk, Mr. Merton, Frederick W. Frost; Dell, Gr 2 and <b) German 1 or 2, and Sweetman reviewed the purposes John B. Dowling; ~neden, Carl R. two courses from (a) Biology 1, of a freshman camp. First, he said, Trahman; Miss McMurtry, Miss (b) Chemistry 1 or 3, (c) Geology the camp provides a wholesome Anne Quigley; Wingblatt, Harvey 1, and (d) Physics 1. environment in which the fresh-, Handelman; Peebles, V. V. Trum- The course for the sophomore men may become acquainted wltb bull; Farnum, William Mulvey; y-ear will include a language con- their classmates, faculty; and up- Alan McClean, Forrest W. Reyn- tinued from (a) French 2 or 10, and perclassmen. Class unity and spirit olds; and Ebnet', Ferdinand Helm. < bl. German 2 or 10. two courses and college spirit are improved. Further productions maybe given from (a) Biology 1 ot· 11, \.b) The freshman's first contacts with on the road as there are open dates Chemistry 1, 3, or 11, (c) Geology 1, college are made in a friendly and until January 4. After this date the (d) Mathematics 12, {e) Physics 1 unrestrained atmosphere. The cast will prepare for the next plays, or 11, (f) Psychology 1, and two (CGntinued on Page 4) Charles II and Masterpiece, ·elective courses. Greek or Latin may be substi- U. bb • f D. lt 71/1 b R tuted for the language in the Math- .1..1;0 leS 0 .l' UCU Y 1r1em ers . ange · em.atics and Science division on the · approval of Dean Garis. At least Lt... R d • 111 one course of the two sciences I' I\Om .· ea zng tOJ.rLOUntain Climbing. studied in the sophomore year shall be a laboratory science, the recom- mendation provides. It is interesting to note that men, ant professor of biology, carries on 0---- both in the past and in the present an entensive research of the Petu~ Collection of Eest Speeches Gften choose as their hobbies occu- nia and Salpiglossus plants. Al- pations that are totally unrelated though they are in the direct line Includes Address of Dr. Fox to the type of work in. which they of his work, he gets a great d1lal specialize. One finds that a great of pleasure out of experimenting· mathematician, Einstein, is almost with them. as much interested in his violin as Dr. Harold A. Larrabee, profes\ he is in hi.s relativity- theory; and a sor of philosophy, has climbed well-known theolGgian was one of mot1ntains in Switzerland, France, the country's most expert fish<Br- and New England. Since he was· men. Our- professors here at Union in college, he has contributed verse are no dif·ferent from these men- a.nd philosophy to a column in the they all have their hobbies, and. New ~ork Herald Tribune called these in many cases are .as opposite \The Conning Tower\ which is to the man's wor-k in college as day written by F. P. Adams. is to night. Edward: L. Carroll, .instructor in The interests of these professors English, is a mart. ·Of many hobbles. are of wdde variety and cover mai\Y' .His chief interest is symphony and fields. William L. Bennett, . .profes- chamber music. He also, however, sor of economics, gets great pleas.- likes to listen to suing ·quartets. ure out Of reading historical no·vels .Aside from this Professor Carroll and biographies. He said that in plays the piano and the oboe and his reading he liked to get a'Way binds old books. On the other hand from his work as much as \POssible. we have Dr. Vladimir Rojanski, as- On the other- hand Dr. Dale, assist- (Continued on Page 4) Included in a two-volume work, \Best Speeches by Eminent Speak- ers,\ published by Funk and Wag- nalls Company, is the address by Dr. Dixon Ryan F'ox on \The Small College and Liberal Learn- ing,\ which he delivered at his in- stallation as president, October 12, 1934. The editor comments on the ad· dress in his introduction: \lt is ·stimulating because it advances a new point of vievv with force and .conviction. The logical development of the facts, presented in a.·smooth, flowing style, a.nd the careful pre- cision which the speaker has ex- ·ercised in selecting his words, make a splendid example of an oc- casional address.' ' Social Studies 1Jivision Announces Its Policies \In view of the recent actions taken by the college Curricu- lum Committee concerning ab- sences, semester courses, and mid-year examinations, it seemed desirable for the Divi~ sian of Social Studies to clarify its position,\ said Dr. Douglas W. Campbell, secretary of the division today, Resignation of Hatfield As Football Coach Announced ------------------------------~ \The actions of the Curricu- lum Committee were in the na- ture of 'home-rule' provisions, granting to the divisions the right to determine their own policies within defined limits on thede impGrtant matters. \At a subsequent meeting of the Division of Social Studies it was unanimously voted to continue the absence policy now gener- ally followed within the divi- sion, and to continue all courses on a year basis 'with frequent hour tests and a final ex;amina- tion at the close' of the yeat'.' \ Debaters to Meet Wells, Skidmore Visitors from Women's Insti- tutions to Argue on Co-edu- cation, Supreme Coru·t Fair vi:;ilors from two prominent eastern women's colleges will ap- pear on the campus Monday, when Union debaters argue with Wells College on the values of coeduca- Lional institutions at 11:00 A. M. and with Skidmore College on con- gressional control of the Supreme Court in the evening. . Wells debaters will argue the topic, Resolved, that the prospec- tive college freshman will do better by entering a coeducational institu- Lion, Monday morning at 11:00 A. M. in the Memorial Chapel. The de- bate is expected to arouse much in- tei est in view of the fact that the Union constituent, composed of Charles Honikel '3B and Bernard Krau<~e '39, will uphold the affirm- ative side of the question. Carl 01- ;;en '36 will act as chairman and the juuges are to be, Mr. Spaine, prin- <.:tpal of Mont Pleasant High School, ~1r . .!'.lcCormick, headmaster of Al- bany Boys Academy and Miss Trot- ter·, principal of Albany Academy for Girls. :Skidmore Practice Debate A practice no-decision debate with Skidmore College, is to take place Monday evening at 7:20 in the Old Chapel 011. the topic Re- .solved, that congress should be per- ' mitted by a two thirds vote in each house to overt ide any decision of ·the Supreme Court which declares 'an act of congress unconstitutional. 'This debate in which Miss Marcia Goldys and Miss Jane Nobel will defend the affirmative for .Skid- more, is a rgeular part of the Phil- omathean program_, The negaLive will be argued by Charles Hcmikel '38, and Lon Barrin!Jer, '39. Resigns Post PROF. G. ELLIOTT HA TF!ELD Juniors Nominated To Prom Committee Candidates for Election In Chapel Tomorrow Among Campus Leaders Twenty-one juniors were nomin- ated for the Junior Prom Commit- tee, representatives of many activ- ities, and 10 different fraternities •and the neutrals, in Old Chapel Tuesday. Elections fot' the eight available positiGns will take place tomorrow in the Memorial Chapel, Charles Krull '36, President of the Student Council, announced' today. The men named were: John E. Bloom, Troy, Pa.; Er·ne~t C. Brown, Gloversville; Franklyn Converse, Mechanicville; Laur,ence Clinton, Troy; Ro-bert Everest, Gloversvill'e; Vibert C. Fr·yer·, Schenectady; Har- old A. Friedman, Schenectady; Frank Gatchell, Baltimore, Md.; Melville Hargraves, Fulton; Paul Higgins, Schenectady, Also Wallace Hughes, Huron, S. D.; Paul Jacquet, Delmar-; John E. Knauf, Albany; John J. Marsella, Schenectady; Carl L. Marshall, Troy; Frank Phillips, Schenectady; John K. Slo.atman, Jr., Norwood, Pa.; John F. Smith, Brooklyn; Har- old Vandecar-, Albany and Herbert Wilson, Albany. Complete charge of the Prom is invested in the hands of the com- mitteemen, who choose the orches- tra and are responsible for decor- ating the Gym. A tentative date of the dance. was set for- early in May. Union of Hundred Years Ago Clearly Described inFamous Pearson Diaries One hundred years ago, in 1835, and to a great extent, contempor- a young man sat in his room at. ary-. In one place he writes of the Union College and wrote in his depression in w}:lich the country diary: \Who will !mow my name wae at time plunged, and decries a hundred years hence? It may the high taxes, high prices, and find a place in the family recoirds the lack of system in the national m' be faintly deciphered upon administration. The cormtry, he some moulderlng, moss-grown believed, could never recover-it tomb-stone, but It will be cherish- was doomed. This paragraph cou'ld ed in no one's heart.\ The young be lifted from the pages of the man's name is known a hundred diary and insei'ted in the middle years from that date, and tomor- of an editot'ial in one of our pres- row a portrait of Jonathan Pear- ent day newspapers, and it would son will be presented tOo the col- not seem dated,. or out of keeping lege. He kept his diary faithfully with the r-est of the editoriaJ. from 1832 until his death in 1887, Jonathan Pearson was born on and from it we are able to gain a February 23, 1813 at Chichester, clearer idea of Union College, its New Hampshire, and received his students and its professors. a hun- early education at Dover and at dred years ago than any history New Hampton. In 1831, his father book could give us. moved to Schenectady, and the Through the kindness of John next year Jonathan entered Union. Pearson, Jonathan's son, who .gave Dr. Nott was then over 60 years Union the diary, and the labor of' old, stur energetic and domlneer- M:r. Cadman IDslop, who spent ing, and into this \world presided m.any months indexirug its ten vol-· over by such a monarch,\ Jonathan umes, the college has become the move<t and began his now famous possessor of this most irp.portant diary. In 1835 he graduated; and record. rn it, the elder Pel;Lrson ib. 1836 he bec·ame a tutGr in the describes his life at Union as a college. T.hree years later he be- student, and later as ·a tutor and ca,me a professor and until hi'S re- a professor. His comments on his tii'ement in 1884 he taught many classmates, his professors, Dr. courses: Chemistry, philosophy, Nott, Schenectady, and many other history, agriculture, mathematics, subjects are interesting, amusing; (Continued on Page 4) Fox Tells New Yorlc Alumni Of Acceptance of Resigna- tion Dated October 18 Nitchman Successor Present Freshman Coach Assume Varsity Job After August 1 To The resignation of Prof. G. Elliott Hatfield as coach of varsity foot- ball and baseball and the appoint- ment of Nelson W. Nltchman to succeed him were announced by Dr. Dixon Ryan Fooc last night at the dinner of the New York city Alumni Association. Prof. Hatfield's resignation, sub- mitted nearly two months ago, was kept secret until the football sea- son was over and his successor ap- pointed. The resignation is effec- tive at the end of the college year, August 1, 1936. The retiring coach declined to discuss his plans for the future or- the reasons for his action, except to say that his mind had been made up to leave since last sum- mer. \A letter of resignation was written on October 18,\ he said. \This letter was delivered to Mr. Wittner a few days later, with tills statement: 'You are free to use this as you see fit.' \ \As for future plans, I am con- tinuing in Physical Education and Athletics,\ he said, but explained that negotiations now under way cannot be divulged prematurely. Prof. Hatfield's letter to J. Har- old Wittner, director of physical education and athletics, .said in part: \In severing my connection with the college, I want to express my deep appreciation of the fine co- operation you have given during my stay at Union.\ Nitohman New Coach Nelson W. Nitchma.n '31, will be- come the first professional football cGach who is an al UJn.nus of Union. He is at present .an Instructor in physical education, and coach of varsity basketball a.nd freshman football. Interviewed this morning, Nitch- man said, \1 will carry on. with the same spirit and enthusiasm with which I have attacked my work in the past and hpoe to enthuse the boys with a spirit similar to that evidenced by Coacb ·Hatfield's team in several of the games which I saw this year.\ Musical Programs Prevail on Sunday Christmas Music for Morning Chapel, Organ Recital; Choral Sing i\ :mvening The annual c<>mmemoration of Christmas at Union will ;t>e <>b- served in three musical celebratiGns Sunday with all the pomp and dig- nity that befits the :holiday, The Christmas services which Dr. El- mer A. Tidmarsh, director of music, has been conducting since his affil- iation with the college will be given by the choir and Dr. Tidmarsh Sunday morning, afternoon and evening. The Memorial Chapel will be gayly decorated with electric lights, holly wreaths, and Christmas can- dles by the College Christian Asso- ciation. The evening community sing, havin\g ·been so po.pular with the Schenectady public that many have had to ·be turned away fmm the chapel because of lack of room, will again be sponsored by the Christian Association. The regular Sun,day inorning chapel service will take place at 11 G'clock and will be broadcast through the facilities of WGY Slim- Bar to other Sunday services. Dr. Tidmarsh will open the service with an organ prelude which will be followed by the processional hymn. -During the service there will be several pieC!es sung and play- ed for the first time In the ~hapel, including the o-rgan prelude \Vari- ations on an Ancient Christmas Carol\ lby Detbier which contanis much modern harmony and \The Three Ships\ by Taylor. During the aftevnoon, the choir will assist Dr. Tldmarsh in his weekly recital.

Two THE GGNCOJliQrENSIS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13, U35 e part of the pro gram of course, and would , : . · .· ' · .. AROUND THE WORLD By RICHARD SNYDER Sbpeech..es, conferences, and discussi<:Jll.s w0uld I ( Q L u M N 1·.·.· ... • accomplish about as much as SJ.>ee.ell es, eort-.. .------------------. ferences, and discussions usuall~ tl.o. The !.Jio·========;;;;;;;;====;;;;;:=========;;!.! J!=o;;;;;=========-lt really valuable thing about tl:te £reshman: We're just a poet at heart, we And he no longer thought he was a A very interesting and signifi- \A Causa Persa Parole llssai\ FOUNDED 1877 I 9 3 5 Member :1936 Associdted CoUee>ide Press Distributor of Colle6iate Die)est Sule ami exclusive national adverti.,ing representatives NATIONAL ADVBH.TlSlNG fli!:RVICE, l11c. ~2U lMadi~on A veuue New York CitY ·Chicago - Boston - San Franclsro - Los A JJgeJeij Portland - Seattle 'rhe official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fridays throughout the college year, except during Christmas and spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 33!1, State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Tele.Phone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union Cel!ege Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4.-0133. Senior Boai'd Van Vechten 'l'rumbull ...... , . Editm·-in-Chief Delta I'll! lluu:;e-4·Q645 John Anderson ... _ ............ Managing Editor l'si Up:,;Jluu Huu:;e-4-b7lU Albert H. Steven2on., _ ........ Sports Editor Ptii llp:;Jlou Huu:>e-4-871U Robert C. North .. , ..... , ........ News Editor Della UI>•Iiou House--4·7~22 Wallace 'I'. Foote., .... _, .. , ... Feature Editor All.>ha Della Plti Hou::oe-4ti7~U Daniel B. Wohl. ....... - .. Circulation Manager Kappa Nu House-4-73al Robert 0. Nelson ..... _ .... Buslness Manager -----=l=:Ut~· ppa Alpha Lodge--4-8122 Junior Board ASSOVlA'.l'E EDITOI~S Millon Bedell Richard Passenger Ralph Cohen Fred Feldman Fenton Gage Carlton Gardson J. Bundgus R. Doig W. Dean Sophomore Board Assistant Editors H_ Enzer H. Hartmann C. Trahman M. Muroff C. Honikel R. Ferguson camp W(}Uld be t1J.e excellent <>ppodll.Ilities for friendships. 'The freshmen wotaTd h€aome acquainted with their classmate-s lle::fore the' fratemal cohorts descend upon t!Lerrn.. II'he:y would also get to know some (}i !:he upper-. class leaders and faculty members~ &..nd ithe:y would have a swell thne. The project looks very good '@ll,]Ja::per, and the first ground has been brok.e11. llut tl1e plans are ·still in the tentative sta.ze:. If the Christian Association can shovv w~ys and means, they will undoubtedly get the ap- proval of the administration. the the guess. :sinner, cant factor in Japan's newest ac- THE CAMPUS ROMANCE If he polished his shoes and step-. tivity in North China is that she or WINIFRED !Uid ETHELBERT Winifred Whisp was a typical co-ed Willowy, waty, and .passably win- some. Ethelbert .Apple was rather a sloV\1- head·, Instructor in Latin, a scholar and thin some. People thoug-ht Ethelbert Wasn't such shakes, But they all said that Winifred Had what it tffkes. Winifr-ed went to The places one goes, While introvert Ethelbett Sought his I'epose. From dinners to dances vVent Winnie, the roamer, WhHe Bertie ale!'tlY Translated Homer. Winifred's figure was straight and alludng Ethelbert's hOlly looked most unen- during. Winnie could swim and play golf and backgammon~a Ethelbert, somehow, seemed to lack stamina. Winifred played in the senior class ped out ta dinner. . ·is using entirely Manchukuan . troops, showing the tremendous ad- dition t<> her man pawer made pos- sH>le by her control over Man- churia. Ethelbert went out lo dance Looklllg very chic. Winifred sat up in bed Translating Greek. * * * A d w: . 'f d' h d b t t When asked recently how the n mi re 5 eyes a · ec.n es - Philippines would defend them- ·ed for glasses. She bought Bertie a ski-suit and selves, an important representative taught all his classes. of those islands said, \With resolu- Artd Eertie went out 8;11d occa- tion,\ :rt is ·the humble opinion of .simla! firank this colUinn that within a few While deeper in scholarship Wini-. years the Philippines wiH ask to fred sank. again come under the control ef The ·classical faculty Found her an aggressor. She kept at them until she Was m.ade a full professor. The things she did, it should he stated, Caused s.ome repercussion. She l'e-wrote Horace and translated Virgil into Russian. At last the University Made Winifred a Ph. D. Diploma ·(President's donation) Followed by a light collation. The president asked with a schol- aJ!ly smile \What inspired your effortful Ufe?\ the United States and if we refuse then they will apply to Great Bri- tain for dominion status in the Bri- tish Empire, * \' * 'The Co~nmunists throughout the world are very much elated at the rtalo-Ethiopian War because it is a splendid ex:ample of the breakdown in Christian idealism. The specta- cle is one where the oldest Chris- tian nation in 1J1urope seeking to massacre the oldest Christian na- tion in .Africa. * * * The high Japanese admiral who WHERE WILL YOU BE: 7 Monday brings fresh opporh.111 ity to thinking students of Union. We Ii.efer t0 Wells and Slddmore debates, a :put play. Of They said her performance just carried' the day. And Berti~, ha;J.fway up the aisle, Said simply, \Ain't she Grand? !V.Iy wife!!!\ is repl.'esenting his country at the Naval Conference in London went to that conference through Russia instead of through the United States as has been the custom for many years. * * * the unheralded and unsung, but 11f>one the less ever-continuing, :program of th~ F·lliloma· thean Society. Monday morning at eleven a 'Wells College team will meet Union in a debatetobe broad- cast over VVGY, and in the eveni.ng a final contest with Skidmore will be hel·d. E2.ch of these represents many hours <if strenuous work, gathering information, 2ssem).)ling facts and preparing briefs. Without a d(}ubt, the contestants will reap their <Jwn 1:ewards Ethelbert saw her and asked for a date-a. F. H. The recent peace proposals to Mussolini are more than just a pro- She went, and he read her a chap-11 1·· posed termination of the current ter from Plato. I\'' THE MAIL war, it is what the smaller nations Their appearance together was not :I 'I · regard as a betrayal of their rights a success. ..l!;;;;=============·J..I under the League. Now it is a case For he always stepped on the hem of the smaller powers sinking or of her dress. To the Editor: swimming together. In informed When at the tennis courts Wini- I, as an alumnus of Union Col- circles it is the belief that if Mus- fred :played, lege, in the class of 1931, and also solini gets as much or more than Ethelbert read a good book in the as a for:mer fraternity member at he asks for in Ethiopia, in five shade. Union, admire the statement of years or so he will take Switzer- People declared that it never would last. \Winifred's. only a-dallying.\ Bertie resented aspersions cast. \I'll stop this damn shilly-shally- ing.\ John E: Duncan and John A. Me- land. Guire. * * * Fraternities in Union College Senator Borah's passiveness to Issue Editor ....•.•. Richard E. Passenger in the training they personally acg_uLJ·e .• So in the Jlaper people's eyes Met to their immense surprise A notice headed, Whis(J and Apple, \Wedding in the college chapel.\ They spent the summer in the dis- have very seldom been honorable the Republican candidacy is due to in class elections or in the election the fact that he does not want to of committees for the various so- run the risk of large pre--campaign cia! events. Their game has <>fte 11 expenditUI'eS. It is further believed been one of unfair elections and that he would rather support some- not a course of electing students one else who shared his views. on their merits but on fraternity * * * deals. As for insinua:ting upon in- By 1936 the Soviet Union wiH be dividual groups-a man is actually the greatest gold-producing conn- what he calls the other fellow. 1 try in the world. She is second now. R. Doig Assistant Issue Editors These debates are all on inter-es-ting t0:pics H. Hartmann -topies of vital importance to CG>llege men, Friday, December 13, 1935 yet past experiences have shown t.hat ()nly a small :percentage of the students -ca:n be ex- pected to attend. Many will talle 11.0 :more in- tant -west, And \Vinn.ie got tanned, and Bertie got rest. But wheu they got back people noticed a change. \What's got into Winnie? She's acting so strange.'' This achievement will enable the have experienced such in my col- lege days at Union when I had the Soviets to strengthen their unit of satisfaction of disrupting filthy pol- money, the ruble, itics at many fraternities at Union. Joseph A. Padula, '31. .. • * FRESHMAN CAMP terest than is indicated by a g-lailce at the headlines of The Concordiensis to :see vvho won. Such apparent indifference js; a. gesture of discourtesy io our opponents and .shows For Winnie no longer played tennis To the Editor: and polo. The Philomathean Society will make ~ention of this editorially, attemptmg thereby to stimulate interest in these two girl debating teams specifically, in Union Col- lege debating generally? One of the maj Ol\ problems of any college administration is the orientation of its fresh- She sat up with Bertie to conjugate pat·ticipa te in two debates next \volo\, Monday. The one at 11 in the .Such interest on the edit~r's part would prove valuable and helpful to both the Philomathean and the student body, would be ap- preciated by the former if not by the latter, men. Much of the success of a student's col- lack of appreciation for our rep-Tesmtatives. lege career depends upon the ease with About a month ago, following the B<Jw- which he can make the transition from :prep doin College debate, these columLs :inquired school to college life. lmpropeT or incomplete with some embarrassment, \Where Wa.s The adjustment to college and its problems is one Audience?\ Now they ask 111 advance, of the chief reasons for failures in scholar- \Where Will You Be?\ THE BOOK SHELF SOME A.MER.JCAN PEOPLE by Erskine Caldwell, New York, Mc- Bride, $2. Erskine Caldwell has been pro- voking considerable comment both as novelist and writer of short stor- ies. One o:f the abler exponents of proletarian literature, he has been attached by some of the more or- ship, in social life, and in personality. At present there are three agencies which Union C(}llege employs to help its freshmen in making this transition: personal contacts and interviews with the admissions officers, the pledging activities of the fratemities, and the formal \orientation program\ of the opening week. Of these three, the fraterni- ties are of most importance and exert the greatest influence in trying to fit the new men into the life (}f the college. Of c(}urse ir some cases the fraternity's effect may bt: negative; it may disrupt more than it ad- justs. The contacts of the great maj(}rity of sub-freshmen with the coll.ege officers are necessarily brief and cursory. And the f(}r- mal orientation program consists mainl:y in speeches and good advice. A plan which has attained considerable success in other c<Jl!ege.s has been pr()posed by the Christian Association as part of their program as custodians of the mllege morale. They would like to start a Freshman Camp to be held for several days b€fore the college opens in September. Not only do they rec- ommend such a project, hut they are willing to organize it and do the work requiTed to carl'y it through. The purpose of the freshman camp is to do something definite, concrete, and tangible about the problem of freshman adjustment. COLLEGIATE CAROLLEEf; thodox Marx:ist critics, because he refuses to introduce doctrine into his writings. Wbether or not these attacks have been justified depends upon one's attitude towards Marx- ism in general, but even the most extreme Marxists, if they are at all as penetratin.g as they are reputed to be, cannot deny that Caldwell is The Christmas season at Unil()ll brings a master at propaganda. with it one of the richest of OUT colleQ'e 00 _ In his latest book, in which he ~ abandons the trodden path of fic- servan<:es, the Christmas musicaJ s;er·vices. ticm, Caldwell states in the preface Although the custom of d-€Vl()tinQ' ..,.he. that travel is not the flight from ~ L one place to another, and an Chapel service and the organ recital of the equally rapid return. n is the visit- s d b f ing of a new people, set in an al- un ay e ore vacation to musical programs together n€w background, physical is not very old in years, it has aJready as.- .and envimmnental, the studying of those people, and the contrasting of sumed the importance and gained the follow- those peo}>le with others, together ing of an honored tradition. with whmn they- form the complete pattern of a specific country or And for the third successiv~ :ye:ar, 3 continent. Caldwell has traveled the entire length. and breadth of the Christmas Carol sing will be hel <l Sunday U11ited States and recorded his evening iiJ the Chapel, climaxing· a d:a·y of. findings in. an objective, vivid, and whoiiy realistic fashion. His people music. This event, conducted bY\ .tlle Cllrist- are types. \You can find them wher- . A · t' h · ever Caldwell found them, Some 1an ssoCia 1011, as met With overwl!elming are not the Itind of citizens Mr. success, and is as eagerly anticipatea a.s the Hearst would laud; they are willing Ch · d to sign petitions agitating for bet- Oil' an Ol'gan services of the n1o-m.ing and ter conditions and they are not re- afternoon. luctant to despise Henry Ford be- cause he .pretended to champion the It is refreshing to see college t~e n in an worker. f h . The repo-rt of Mr. Caldwell's tra- age 0 SOp lStication and agnostjci SID get SO vels is organized in three parts: much pleasure out of the naive song-::; vvh.ich Cross-country which describes the condition t>f the American freeman belong to a. faith they do not shsre. [s it fmm ~he R..ackies to Maine; Detroit, some half-forgotten racial merno-l'f ~ldch .wh.erem the kingdom o-f that gen- erous patron of history, King makes us J•e.spond to these old ·e:l.l't.Jit; 1 Or a Htmry I, is discussed; and The secret longing to return to the \\O'E \\f 1'1111\~ 'Tenant Far~ner, a section devited \o \-' \T\ to the \for-gotten man' 'of the cot- cence whicll they represent? i;on belt. Tl:)is portrait of America, as the Whatever the reason, the musjcc:tl services book well :may be called, does not d th 1 · f h .shout \We must have a revolu- an e caro Sing ar.e or us t e m;os~ e11j oy- tion! ... \ y-et, if the reader fails to able part of the Christmas season. We invite to perceive the lnfir:mities of our present economic system after turn- you to come and share in a cb.ax!n wh.ieh ing over the last leaf. it is his cannot be descl'ibed in words. fault, no-t Erskine Caldwell's. A. W.H. morning in Memorial Chapel is with Wells College; the one at 7:30 Monday evening in Old Chapel is with Skidznore College. Could the editor of the Concor- diensia by some manner or means Hoping for the editor's co-oper- ation. INTERESTED. :HOME FOR THE CHRISTMAS -d1 ·HOLIDAY? ' .. ~'!df kmlk rout~ QUICKLY muf ECONOMICALLY Don't spoil iho thrill of getting home again by worrying about the shipment of your baggage. Solve the problem by leaving everything to Railway Express. We will call for your trunks, baggage and personal belongings and send tb.em home on fast passenger trains thr<lugh to destination. You can takeyourtrain ho!Ilewith peace of mind-knowing tb.at your baggage will be there quickly and safely. Railway E:xpress service is a decided economy in expense, too. A.fter vacation, send yoll1' baggage back the same way. We give a receipt on pick:-up and take a receipt on de- livery ... double proof of swift, sure handling, .For service or information merely call Qr telepb.one Cor. WALL & LIBERTY STS. 'I'HONE 4-5612 DEPOT OFFICE: N. Y. C. STATION 'PHONE ~8512 SOHENECTADY, N. Y. RAILWAY EXPRESS AGENCY, INC .. NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE TUI-tE IN ON THE RAILWAY EXPRESS NEWS PARADE EYery weok from the following stations: WEEI • WOR • WHK • WLS • KWK ·• WDSU t WFAA WGST • KYA. • KNX • KSTP • KOMO • WBAL • KOIL Watch for /oea/ crnnauncemenlr i \ ! i ! i ' Unio] :Team Captain Fodbit: No Unic opened a ' which the in playing The weeks W. Nitchrr fitting clin Nell The· exten' to be fulfille· of Coach Ni has attracte the basketba jar centes~ booked are 1 that the C Nitchman h sh<>rt period Besides th ent varsity good materi experienced and the ge which has l training pe squad this ' an importaJ lege athleti~ Union's A real va in the forJ this winter games will cause of th as t<> the < newcomers petition, th ground wil the best n flights.\ Last yea Clarkson 1 men off w coUit, mai lars were on person: quent cant down and be termed ing only tc The san strength o tonight as the openir group itse experience reserves tl fouls cam mate an opener as Vermon· best fives in any s this year. termen a1 Union ba mounts a 24. The Green an< as effect! it did sl~ The cone test was tain Yotl br<>ught single po try was< when th that he shots. ' It is v to aveng mont ill! gym nasi' play the slight ac by virtu cause of sity pia: initial v sity last In ad there is the Ca Coach S or the coupled fense. I Nitchm players ods of tics. 1 Coach; paring which i of the Capt: erring er for more~ one re· night : in one a guar be Va net's b played sons. The fith tl that I' as co nar,; Waldt his so ed fo1 butt

RLD 'I ~ signifi- vest ac- hat she !hukuan lous ad- ~de pos- r Man- .ow the them- entative L resolu- inion of a few ask .to 1trol ef 3 refuse eat Bri- the Bri- lOUt the 1 at the l it is a :akdown specta- t Chris- :king to :ian na- raJ who · at the m went Russia Unite.d tom for lsals to >t a pro- current nations ir rights sa case king or [!formed if Mus- •re than in five Switzer- ness to s due to want to 1mpaign believed rt some- ws. will be g coun- nd now. Lble the unit of itorial!y, timulate lebating .on Col- editor's lie and nathean d be ap- not by co-oper- :!TED. y ~ r i ,. > 'l'liE CONC:()RD1iENSIS, FBU:DA.Y, DECEMBEJR. 13, 1935 I'h.ree Garnet Five Meets Vermont Tonight, Rochester Tomorrow ~·--------------~------ Union To Encounter StrongJIN'I'RA.MURAL ATHLE111es lJntramur.al Card I 0 . G !..-------------\: Sllows Odd Faets ''\F~rAirna Mater•• !Teams 'n pening ' '.am·es BasketbUResul.ts i By MI:.L'l:'ON D. BED ELL ---- Physical Exam Ta.ken by 140 G S 'th T d Several more aspiring teams ·fe]Jf' Men·, Many Upmerclassmen Captain Milano, Van Waldron, · rant m1 , . e .. by the w-ayside itt the past wee I{ ~f; lit' Fodbielski, Mike Friznar Will Start Ambiticus intramur-al cou.r~ competition. JileJ-: Found Unf.it ta Upsilon, a-fter -winning its o:l)eo-: ·Co!r:lpared with our other sports, basketball is of comparatively re- cent dnriVEI!.tion. Some peo:ple main- tain -that a sport similax 'bo our pr,ese:z:rt g&me was played in an- cie.nt times;. basing their state- meuts e>n the f·inding of a. court among M.:aya ruins which had ho<Jps fast:.en.ed high up- on the sides of the walls. As far as we can de'tennine this game must ha. ve· :be-en ,played with a. n. umbe·r of me11 on ea.ch side and· the game itself •la.sti:ng- indefinitely. Obscure recor-ds even. state that men were killed ·d. uring the process of play. Season Tonight at 8 ing gamE of the schedule, droppe-d, a close one to l!.ambda Chi Al::Pha,; In the carrying out of the in- No Union Golle~re basketball team in recent years has. 22 to <8~ Theta Delta Ch.i and th..c• tramural program many interest- ~ Phi Gams put. •On one of the best: ing facts have come out, both sta- opened a season of n:J.Ol'e ambition and imp0Tt than that shows t~ date. Eoth teams W'!er-e· ttstJc.al and otherwise. l!'he phy- '11 · t t · ht d t evenly matched·a.nd the game was: sica! examination, for instance, which the Garnet five WI' maugura e omg an ornorrow an.ybody's tUI the ·!ina! whistle. •BUI, which is required .f<>r all those in playing the Vermont and Rochester basketball teams here.· Keens w-as fou.led. as the game end- who wish to part!cipa te in the l ed and if he hll-<1' been successful· .ba..sltetball playing, and in the The weeks of arduous training on the part of Coach Ne son aa ovet•time pev!I){!Wou!d have IJeen wr·estling or boxing classes, has W. Nitchman and his &quad of 11 players will receive a be-. necessar-y:. He :missed and. the Tnef:a been tal1en by over 140 men. In De!ts ta-o!• the ·game 23 to 22. the check up, many .u..pperclassmen fitting climax this wee'k-end in these two opening games. The Neutr•als carne out on :top ha.ve •bee[l found unfit ·to take part over the Kapp.al\l'u's 28 to 23, V\''hi 1e for various reasons. Dt'. Jalll~s A. Naismith wllile ail instl'Uct<!lr' .. at .. the .. Springfield, (Kas~.) Y. !rl:. C. A. in 13Sl. It was his b.op-E ~!at it would Jlrovide a fGrnt of ·h..ealtlr-giving and nru.scle- bttiltling;, exercise. that. \'ould. do away- withl the rnonotony of ordi- !lll,I')' gyllllllllSium work. Fot• t;he nets Dr. J'la:isll:1ith used the taU, cone sh:a]letl: .peoach baskets wlriclr. were in ge.lleral metelrl1lldising use at the time .. 'ltenee tire narne of 1lre ~me. A s~e1· :football was th~ <niginal ba.n u&EJd in .play. Nels' Third Yea1• The· extensive schedule which is to be fulfilled this year by the third of Coach Nitchman's varsity teams: has attracted \Unusual interest to the basketball team. The many ma- 1 jor contests which have been booked are indicative of the 't'espect that the Garnet quintets under Nitchman have achieved in. a very short period of time. Besides the value of Union's pres- ent varsity coach, the pmmise of good material, a fair number of in- · experienced but willing reserves, and the generail high enthusiasm which has been present during the training period of the basketball squad this winter are indicative of an irnportant season in Union Col- lege athletics. · Union's Stmtegic Schedule A rea1 vantage point was gained in the formation of the schedule· this winter in that the first three games will be played at home. Be- cause of the doubt which yet exists as to the capabilities of the three newcomers to intercollegiate com- petition, these first games on home ground will most certainly prove the best means of allowing \test flights.\ Last year the first game against Clarkson Tech started the Dutch- men off with a loss on the home cou1t, mainly because three regu- lars were lost after the first half on personal fouls. But in subse- quent contests the Garnet tempered down and went through what may be termed a very good season, los- ing only to Syracuse University. Th.e same conditions as to the strength of Union's opponent exist tonight as they did last year before the opening game. But the Union group itself, in spite of its lack of experience, has bigger and better reserves than it did in '34. Personal fouls cannot be deemed as legiti- mate an excuse in this season's opener as it did last winter. Vermont probably has one of the best fives the Dutchmen will meet in any small college aggregation this year. All the players are let- termen and played last year when Union barely edged out the Cata- mounts at Burlington, Vt., 23 to 24. The zone defense 'V!hich the Green and Gold team put up proved as effective for the hom.e team as it did slow-moving for the game. The conclusion of the hectic con- test was marked by a foul on Cap- tain Young. His one free throw brought the Catamounts within a single point of a tie, and the second try was denied him by the officials when the Vermont side protested that he should have received two shots. Vermont Seeks 'Win It is with rightful determination to avenge their defeat that the Ver- mont men will meet in the Alumni gymnasium tonight at 8 o'clock to play the Dutchmen. They have a slight advantage over the local five by virtue of this determination, be- cause of the 'longevity\ of the var- sity players, and because of ~heir initial victory over McGill Uruver- sity last week, 42 to 17. In addition to these advantages there is also the teclmique which the Catamounts employ. Under Coach Saba the midwestern offense, or the \fling and follow\ play, is coupled with the deadening zone de- fense. During the past week Coach Nitchman has been irtstructing his players in the most effective meth- ods of combatting botll these tac- tics. In. his offensive practices Coach Nitchman has also been pre- paring for the Rochester ~efense which is believed to be llkewrse that of the zone type. Captain Joe Milano, whose un- erring eye has made him high scor- er for the varsit ysince his sopho- more year, will be Union's number- one representative on the court to- night and tomorrow. He will start in one of the forward. positions. In a guard post for the first time will be Van Waldro-n, one of the Gar- net's best defensive players who has played center for the past two sea- sons. The third man who began playing fith the varsity at tl:te same time that Nitchman took over his duties as coach in 1933, is Mike Prfiz- par, who will start at guard wi~h Waldron. Priznar was a reserve m his sophomore term and was head- ed for a varsity berth last season, but then was unable to :play. The J' arsity Coach Phi Sig-ma Bella swamped Nfor:t:.h :Bill Ketz and Art Lawrence both College 42 to ~0: <:hi Psi and Sigtna . feel· that the exarns have been of Phi bot.lt won. ,(heir respective .e 11- considerabl'e service to tl!le pro- counter's. High· scoring fer Hhe gr.arn as well as to the individuals games ,goes to Lenny Shultz, ·?-111' •loolted over. At the .present time it Sigma Delta, vvlt:h seven field goa.Js. ia e::Kpected that more than two Bob Everest, :]!). U., Red Obrien: ·hundred boys will •be checked by Lambda Chi, and Joe Reichal, Thte· the o:nd of the year. T'ltis is just ta Delt, come in for second hon~rs ln. •connection with the intermural with a total of ten points apiece~ :program and does not include Lluoups those out for var•ious other activi- tiEs. J)elta Opsilo!l :(:UI) G :F P ., , , McGovern ..... - ........... 1 '0 2 The three activities now under Barcy - ......... - . . . . . . . . . . . 1 '0 2 full swing in the newly arranged Slrenna.n ..... , - . . . . . . . . . . . 0 2 2 pz og:rarn have in corpora ted a hefty Ever·est. ... ·- ... - ........... 4 2 10 slice of the student body into par- F'ent()n ..... - .. - .. - .... - ... 0 ·o 0 ti;;!poation. With twenty-three Bedell . , .... - ... - ....... - ... 1 ·O 2 poups competing a total of two Brown .... , - ... - ........... 0 0 0 )11111dred and fifty-one fellows have TotaLs .... - .. - ........... 7 4 1& taken some part in one or more Lan:Lbda Chi Alpha (22) G F\ ·l\ c>f t:he sports. Ther-e hasn't been Abrien ..... - ................ 4 2 1(}. s'llch a huge number of students Adams ... , . - .............. 2 '2 ·5. s<J engaged in many-, many years. RandaLl .. , , .. , .. _ ... , ..... 1 1 3: Canale ····· ··· ············ 0 ·!f 1 L[) .New Timingniachine Will Callige :ris . .. .... ... . .. . .. . . . . 0 sz~~~~~r~~~~~. :::::::::::: ~ t 2 ~. Ertliven Intenst Tonight • • * Theta :Delta <Jb.i. (23) Gl .P P'·: Basketball games in the future Rehberg .................... 1 L 3~~will be much more interesting and 'T·h~ neVI game rapidly spread fr<Jm ... ]ts s ()Urce to all parts of this coun iry and. then was imported across the seas. Today it l:tas be- come ~>one of the most popular of games, t1ven.ty-two nations intend- ill.g to se :nd teams to colll.pete in tb.e Olympiad at Berlin in 1936. The gam€ spr-ead: so rapid-ly that in lll.an::Y sect.io:ns of the country only the :fundo...mentals were adltered to, 1'ritb. •IU.an::y innovations occurring in the sty-les o:f play. This eventually led' to confusion in intersectional a:nd illltercollegiate games until finally Hte game was standardized b::Y a join. t committee co-Jnposed of colleges,~. lv.l. C. A.'s, high schools, the .A, A, U., and prep schools. Garllett ............ , ....... 1 L 3: exc::iting to the spe.ctators in the Burnham ...... , ........... (F C> O''Aiumni Gymnasium~ The ath1etic Wile nturri.er of rnen composing a Hallad.ay ..... _ ............ 2: L 5• depoartment of lJnie>n College has tEaru '\'Vent t.hrough nurnerous fluc- Reich~tl ...... _ ... , ........ ·::. D -tn just installed a special timing de- nr~tlous ilefore the five man team Phillip43 ..... ~, ........... L 0 2' vice that will ind.icate at all times WRS. ()orig,;ina.ted. In tile .beginlrlng Tota.ls ...... _ ....... _ .... 1() 3 2~! the exact number of :minutes and eaetl side .Jr.sd saven men, i:.his was Phi Gamma Delta (22) G F p' sec<Jnds remainingto·be played dur- rl:llsed ro nLue and then went bacli . Robe1t .... ~ ... - ............ 1. 0 ::2i ing- the contests- 'I' he newly pre- t-() -Eig:ht m.en until tlte standard Sands ... , . _ .. - ............ :2 0 4; pared device will 1>-€ used for the was ,fbJ.ll.ily fixed. A game consisted Blue ...... _ .. _, ........... 2 0 4. :fltst time this eveniag when the of 't;hr>ee pe.:~.·iods of tweu.ty minutes Wilson .... - .. - ............ 2 ::2 -6! -varsity quintet n:reets Vermont in eaelr. ':rh.3s \'as changed io quarters Reens ..... - . , ...... , ...... 8 () 6 i:he opening game of the season for anCI. is ~ow played in t'\v()~ twenty Totals ... _ ,, ............. 10 :2 2:2, the Dutchrnen. nrlnut.cJ J:rnlves. lligh scli{J-()]s play Soutlt Colleg:e (6) F ::I' C::k Credit for the dor:ation °~ th~ de- elg-:lrt mi.nllte quarters. :ii'ield goals Harrizas, J. . ............. 0 tO 0· vi~e and for the shll and mtncate a.~sed ~o c~unt three point;s, while Zambito ............. () 0 o: movements of tlle hugh machine tlu-~B fo111ls gave the injured team Pi taro .................... () 0 0 belongs to Wi!liatrJ. E. Owen of ::a poiirt. Specialists in foul shoot- En:zer· .......... - .......... ::l 0 6 '2630 Campbell Aven.ue who made a iug;: were called in to IIULlu~ these Annese ............. <0 0 0· gift of his work to the college. Mr. Captain Milano Van Waldr()n Bundgus .................. <0 0 0 Ca.mpbell also- a.ided in installing ----------------- other two positions, that of center and forward will be filled by Grant Smith and Ted Pod.bielski, stars from the 1934 freshman quintet. Cobb . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . il 0 0 the four-foot cloc.l{ at the south end Totals , . .. . .. . .. .. . . .. .. a 0 6 of the court whe::re it has been sus- Si ... ma Phi (1~) t(l F J:' :Jie:nd<ed from the rai'ters. Located in p;)mer ..... _ .. . .. .. . . .. .. 2 1 5 such a strategic position the elec- Bo-wie .. , _ . , • . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 0 8 tri.c clock is visi llle from any part Kr eusi . . .. .. _ .. _ . . .. . . . . .. 1 0 2 of the gymnasium. Gar\'let Reserves Stoug;hton .. _ , ...... _ ... , . 1 1 3 'The officia1 timer of the game The reserve situation wlll be han- Wells. .... - .. _ ....... - ..... 0 0 0 will have before bim. a timepiece dled by six l}ther men, only two of Borden .. _ .. _ . . ... . . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 IV11ich will record the time of the whom are under six feet. Guy Gris- WhitE ... - .. _.. . . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 game as well a.s t.he time \tal~ en wold, who won his numerals on Totals . _ ... , ......... - . . 8 2 18 out\ by each team an.d the referee. his freshman team, came out for ,. • Players, spectator;s and officials the varsity this winter for the first Neutrals (28) G F P will always have before them a time. He and Bill Brandow, sharp- Trua:x - · · - · · · · · • · · · · · · · · · · 0 0 0 complete pictur-e of the time left shooting ace, are the two seniors Col'1>y · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 3 2 -s• to play, tending to heighten inter- among the subs·. Ken Brown, who Naguszewsld · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 1 0 2 est t1> the spectators at I east, es- won his aU a with Brandow last sea- Lambeth · · · •· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 2 0 4 pe~ially during close games in the son, and George Doyle, Vincent La 'l.'arte · .... · .. · · · · · · .. · 3 0 6 concluding moments. Smith, and Phil Duchscherer, Greu.llck · · ·- · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 4 0 8 sophomores, are the other reserves. Toials · \- \ ·\ · · · ·\ .. · l3 2 28 4 (} 8 ~M Elt.IC:AN Al LAUNDRY 20% DISCOUNT CA.SH: and C.ARR Y 1030 Barrett St. Phone 4·3166 ..J~l.1ES E. DAY, Optician .Pr:escription.s Filled or Duplicated General Repair W <>rk ~114. Union St., Cor. ll!U'I'ett St. Bl ccks Below Co liege Gate KapJllt Nn (23) G :r P' Waters ......... - .. - ..... . Vermont's team is composed of Spellman .. _ ............. _ 4 ~ g. A-gostini ........ - .. - ..•... 0 (} 0 11----------------1 veterans Duncan, Captain Young, Kessler , _ .. _ .............. 1 ·0 ·2- Totals ..... _ .. _ .. - ...... 5 0 10 PHONE 2-3464, Tomassetti, Shaw, and Parker. w ,... 1 3 () 5 * Coach Sabo figures them the safe Mou. ff. \- \- .. · .. \· .. · .. - 2 () !b Chi Psi (17 G F P b et as starters, Ross, varsity grid- ur>O ' - \ - .... · .. · · ' · \ - .Stewart ...... - .. - ......... 2 0 4 Cosen ... ~ .. - .... · .. · · · · .. - l 1 3. 1 0 2 man, Warden, a letterman, and \' 1 1 ·o ·\- o 01ton ........ - .. • .. · · · · · · · b oe g e ... - .. - . • ....... · • .. - \ ,..., 2 () 4 Reed, are the three most cap a le Totals _ .. _ ............. _ll 1 23 , =yrne .... · · .. - .... · .. - \ • · 0 substitutes. '* * \ Mnrphy ...... - ....... · .. - · 0 0 R()chester Lineup · Phi Sigma. ·J)oelta ( 42) •<R F' ? ~:;~~ 11 • :: ::: ::: ::: :: : :: :: ~ ~ ~ 1 Gola - ... - .... - ........ - ... 4 () 8 1 o 2 The Rochester Yellowjackets are Salad ......... , ........... L () 2 Hyle .............. - .. - .. · · not quite so fortunate as the Ver- Lifs-et ....... , ............. () 0 0, Hawley ........... - .. - .... 1 0 2., mont Catamounts, for two of their D 1 vorsky 3: 0 6. Totals .......... _.,- .... 8 1 17 · t ... \• \• • • \• ••.. Q 1A• '\'~ltn Cl:u' (11) G F? .' stars were lost through gradua ion. Shultz ... , .... , ........... 7' \\ .>Ltv w 0 0 Nevertheless, the Rivermen's case Gah.rten ... _ , .. , ..... , ..... <I; 0 3· Goodrich ......... - . . . . . . . 0 ' r ·s not so· seve1·e r'n v1'ew of the fact Sar·~aw 1 ·tz \\ 0 ...,. LeForstier .....•.. - .. · .. ·· 3 2 8 · that the five easily trounced the T~tals .:::::::::::::::: :2i o42 :Ritchey ........... _ ....... ~~~; alumni in a non-official game last North o()ollcge (10) G F P :Kearns ..... - .. - .. - .. · · ·.. •• week. Farr ....... _ ............... 0 () (] :McC~rthy ......... _ ....... 0 1 ~·· Two sophomores, stars on the Fr~eliclt .. - .. · · · .. • .. · .. - · 0 () (] .Arnutage · \- \ - .. · .. · · · .. ~ g l:t' frosh quintet of '34, have been Borst .. - .. - ............. -. 0 i{} .() Totals · .. · - · · · .. · • · .. - .. culled from the varsity candidates :MiUs ... - .. -.- ....... · ... ~ • :1 0 2 ° by Coach Louis Alexander to fill the vacant places. Nelson Spies and Clark Shaeffer, forward and cen- ter, respectively, are the inexper·i- enced starters. Otherwise the Ro- chester lineup remains as formid- able as ever. Topey Maliborski, a substitute last year who proved to be the star in the two games· played against the Dutchmen, will starl at the left guard position. His running ma.te will be Russell Anderson, a junior. Jack Mason, another junior, will play the other:- forward post. Tuition Notice The final payment of tuition is due Monday, December 16th. Any payment made after the above date will be subject to the usual fine f<Jr late pay-- ment. MILK HENRY'S BARBER SHOP BARBER.!~& and MANICURING I 0 It 'r. C. Arcade CREA..tv1 BUTTER Clov~rl;n~ ereamerr PHO liE 2·4265 EGGS ICE CREAM COTTAGE CHEESE VVe- liave the Finest DE LUXE M010R COACHES (Equipped with. Radio) ro beo !tad in the Capitol District &E CONVINCE:D-CALL 6. A. Welcome & Soli! P:lrOlllC 4-8444 117L Union St. iFDR. BETTER .Af\JD :QUICKER SERVICE CALL BAtL•s Phone 2-3456 or Bring W orl< to 63 3 State Sireet 'BALL'S Cleaners ar~d Dyers Inc_ Shoe Rebuilders The Corn:ptroller:-'s Office will be open Monday for· the collec- tion of fees from 8::l0-ll:!b5 a. m. and 1-4:45 p. m. JL-------------------------------~·1::~========~====~ Sextet May Practice At Princeton During Recess This year the varsity hockey team will be fully prepared for their Hrst opponents if present plans matm·e. Through the efforts of Mr. H. Lauren.ce Achilles ar- rangements have been made with Princeton University for the Union hockey team to use the Tiger rink from December 30 to January 4. Williams College is also going to work out at the New Jersey College during the recess. Coach Art Lawrence expects to accomplish a great deal more on the indoor ice, which will always be there when wanted, than would be possible around Schenectady. The squad will drill mostly in fun- damentals in two daily sessions. If work pmgresses smoothly and effi- ciently a practice game with Wil- liams may be sought with perhaps a few scrimmages between the Union members. The added advan- tage of playing on an inside rink will be of great aid to the Garnet sextet in preparation for the Army since this game will be inside. Coach Lawrence believes that ap- proximately twelve men will go with him to Princeton. Each man will have to pay his own expenses, but very reasonable rates offered by the Princeton authorities have made it possible for the Union team to make the trip. The first game of the year will take place two days after the college returns from the Xmas recess, when Mid- d:Jebury College will meet the Dutchmen on the Mohawk rink on January 8. shots. One of these men at Ford- ham once made twenty-eight fuul shots in one game. Although records in basketball have not been adequately kept a number of those available are in- teresting. In 1930 in a play off for the championship of Marshall County, Illinois, ten overtime pe- riods were played; tied at 15-15 at end of fourth, 21-21 end of the ninth. Homer and Georgetown played a 1 to 0 regulation game in 1930. The record for total score goes to Goldsboro, Pa.. team against Chec!{er Club of Harrisbu-rg. The final score was 85 to 81 . DUKE UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE DURHAM, N. C. Four terms of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken consecutively (graduation in three years) or three terms ma.y be taken each year (gradua- tion in four years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, character and at least two years of cellege work, including the sub- jects specified for Grade A Med- ical Schools. Catalogues and ap- plication forms may he obtained from the Dean, Your Guide In Buying Ice Cream lll5EY JP:CECREAM Frank, the bar- tender s a y s : Give the Green Mountain Boys H ·-- tonight. may have been Union is better! George speaks for night. may tomorrow Rochester be known for its Eastman, picture will stand out with Union's fighting Dutchmen COLD'S Restnut·nnt-Tltp Rooin-Del!cntessen 631 STATE ST.

Vedder Protests AgainstDogmatism [a the Sciences Reviews by Mosely In Political· Science Annal ~}Jeaker Warns Sigma Xi Group N()t to Be Too Confi· dent in Basic P1·inciples Laws Matters of Faith Scientific Concepts Are Merely Cenemlizations, Always Subject to Testing Tl~e AnnaLs of the American Academy of Political and Social Science for November, 1935, con- tains reviews by Dr. Philip E. Mosely, Instructor in History, of Wirthwein's \Britain and the Bal- kan Crisis, 1875-78,\ Lenin's \'I'he Stl.'uggle f<Jr the Bolshevik Party,\ Popov's \Outline History of the Cmnmunist Party of the Soviet Unio-n,\ and \Socialism Victorious\ by Stalin and others. The Septem- ber issue also published Dr. Mos- ely's reviews of Dombrovsky-Ram- say, \Injustices revolutions, guer- res,\ \The Correspondence of Karl Mar:x and Friedrich Engels,'' En- gel's \.Anti-Duhving and Volume One of Lenin's \Selected Works.\ A protest against scientific dog- matism was voiced in the address enti t.lfrd ''Unnatural Philosophy\ given before the second meeting of Sig-ma Xi by John N. Vedder, pro- fessor of mechanics and thermo- dynamics, in the Electrical Engi- neering Building Wednesday even- ing-_ Introduced by President Firederick W. Gmver, Mr. Vedder :pr~eeded to show in picturesque l:errns and with specific examples that scientific dogmatism, which he I:Jelieves is a thing of the past and can no longer stand as a support to determinism and materialism, is· as harmful in science a.s in all other :fields and produces results equally l:Jad. Before the discovery of X-rays, :::Mt·. Vedder stated, scientists be- lieved. that practically all the great :fundamental princip-les of nature ltad become known. They believed that though much was left to be ~iscovered, the extension of knowl- Edge would be merely the applica- tion of know laws. This confidence <leveloped into an attitude which :supported such theories as scienti- iic materialism and derteminism. X-R.ays Rouse World The discovery of the x-rays awoke the :scientific world from its dogmatic slumber. It gradually be- carne aware of the fact that a large part of scientific thought is postu- lation a! in character. A set of facts grounded on experience is general- ized into a universal law. A num- b~r of such laws and the associated concepts are combined into a con- sistent system. 'The laws them- selves are generalized beyond ex- perience and consequently the be- lief that they hold univet·sally is a matter of faith. This system of lavvs and concepts constitutes a postulational set -which is compar- able to the definitions and axioms which stand at t.he beginning of geometry. The logical deductions from these postulates and defini- tie>ns constitutes scientific possibil- ities. Whether they are actual or not must be determined by experi- ment. ••n is a natural tendency to turn concepts into things,\ said Mr. Ved- der. \The high sch()ol student re- peats the sentence, 'Energy can neither be created nor destroyed.' as a sorcer's acolyte might repeat a magic formula of meaningless words. For him, energy is a thing -a kind o-f juice.\ :Darwinism, Vedder continued, was too severe for the ldndliness and the triumphant democracy of tile nineteenth century. The utilitar- ianism of .J. S. Mill and the evolu- tion theory of Herbert Spencer cor- l'e\Cled this and gave opportunity for a wholesale altruism \which in- cluded all humanity in its ample eiD.brace. Where Mill and Spencer failed, one might have recourse to August Comte whose philosophy, ho-wever it begins, ends in a love- feast which would satisfy the emo- tions of an adolescent schoolgirl.\ • 'It is feared that science is a Fr-ankenstein. which will destroy civilization. The history of the poast score of years gives much plausi- bility to this view. 'The experience of these years has destroyed, prob- ai>Iy for good and all, the over- weening trust in science as a means of redeeming mankind.\ F1·osh Camp Feature Of UCCA Program (Continued from Page 1) freshman camp, be said, provides one of the b!'st means for bridging the gap between high school and college. College authorities seem unan- irn.ous in their approval of fresh- man camps. Livingston Farrand, prellident of Cornel !University, sa.id, \The Freshman Camp is an exceptional op-portunity for a lim- ited group of entering students to •learn beforehand about some of the problerns which will face them in their University life. I only wish that the experience given to those who attend could be extended to all members of the class of 1939.\ In a. letter to Robert Everest '37, secretary of the U. C. C. A., Carl A. Kallgren, Dean of Students at Colgate University, said \Our CIUllp was very successful with an attendance of about .two hundred.\ ..As yet, the College Christian As- S!K!ia.tion has not received the per- mission of the administration to C()rtd uct a. freshman camp. How- ever, the members p-lan to put oth- er parts of their program into operation in the near future. Sev- eral parts {)f the program, such as the Sunda.:y evening get-togethere and the College F<Jrums, will prob- ab·Iy be nu:rnbered among the most ]lopular campus activities. Union of 100 Years Ago Revealed by Pem·son Diary (Continued from Page 1) and botany, and acted concunent- ly as LilJrarian and Treasurer. His diary followed down all these years recordnig hds thoughts on a myriad of subjects. He CUl'Ses the toW1n of Schenectady, deplores the into-:xication that prevails among many of the students of his day, makes sly and humorous remarks about his classmates and his fel- low professors, and even makes unN conplimentary remarks about Dr. Nott. He speaks about the girls oif the times, and remarks about their bare backs and rouged faces. He WI'if.es about the depression, reli- gion, and tells of the tricks he and his friends played upon the profes- sors. Many ()f his rema.I'ks, such as the following one about the con- versation of Americans, are as per- tinent today as they were in his own time: \Whoever heard an Americ•an speak 10 words but 'dol- lar' was not among them? His mind is an arithmetic of loss and gain.'' His comments are wise, humor- ous and frank. He writeS' exactly what he believes, and at times be- comes quite vitriolic when speak- ing- of h:is contemporaries. After his retirement in 1884, he lived in his house which was in the middle of the college pasture, on what is now Seward Place. Editor's N>()te-This is an fn. troduetion to a series of arti- eles eonmining excerpts fr()m tbe PearsoJL Diaries which will a.ppear in the Concordiensis. © 1935, LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO Co 1 THE OONCORDLENSlS, FRIDAY, DE·CElY.IBER 13, 1935 Olsen Discusses Debating Society Two Years Older Tha.n Col· lege, Stin Going Strong, Says Philomathean Head SUNUAY PROGRAMS )lorniug l'llnpel ~orvl~e nt H A. III. Org,ut l'J'elude--\'ariationH on an An- cient Chrl:;tma..' Ca-rol ...... lJethiet Pruct->ssiunal llj-·mn-U Cumt.= All Y:e l•'u.ithful ............... Annonymous 'l'he Congreg-ation l>rnyer Choral He~ponse-Silent Night The Oltoir Ca-mlti: Smg .Noel ......... 01<1 French Noel \\'hen tho \\'orld Wa\ White with As long as there are men at' Wiuter ..... Old Bttrgundain Noel Union interested in public spealt-. J~t 8olenm ::-.Iidnight Came a call ing, there will .probably be a Phil- - .. - ....... Th~ ·Ci 10 ? 1 ~d French Noel omathean Society:, said Carl E. H~·mn-ThP Fir-st Noel ... Traditional Olson, '36, president of that or-· The Congreg-ation ganization, in assembly Thursday. L'arols-Mitlwinter ..... _ ........ Holst Olson briefly traced the history I'a.t-a.-pan · · ...... Burgundian Carol of the society, which was started Organ-:>roel Ecossais - Old Srotrh at the Schenectady Academy 'in L'arol . - ........... At-r. by Guilmant 1793, two years before the college Carols-'I'res ~!agi de Gentibus .. Lang was founded. Its importance was Lo How a Rose E'er Blooming ... .................... , . . . . Prnetorius greater in 1800 than it is now, March of the Wise Men ........ Gaul \but it is still going strong,\ he The Choir claimed. Hymn-0 Come, 0 Come, Emmanuel .....•.•.... 13th Century Plain Song 1'he Congregation Carols-The Three Ships ...•... Taylor Cht,istmas l\ollr Song . , ... '\Vheaton The Choir As the only activity at Union interested in public speaking, the Philomathean society makes many contacts with outside organiza- tions. Besides the trips te other colleges, and the annual state con- ventions of the New York State Debating Society, the debates broadcast over WGY extend the circle of its influence for a con- siderable distance. This year, the society has changed its policy somewhat to in- terest the student body. The time of the radio debates has been changed from 11 at night to 11 o'clock in the morning in the hope that more students can attend; and the subjects for the debates have been made more interesting. In conclusion, Olson expFessed the hope that the coming debate with Wells would attract a laFger audi- ence than has hitherto been pres- ent. Organ-Christmas Evening ......... . .. . .. .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . . . Maruo-Cottone {DesCI'iPtive Note on Opposite Page) Carols-While by lily Sheep I Watched at Xight ............... 17th Century Christmas Song ............... Holst The Choir Benediction Organ Recital aL 4 P. lH, I. Yeni Emmanuel-Choral Impro- visation ............... Edg-erton II. Carols-The 'Three Ships . Taylor Christmas Follt Song .. '\Vheaton Carol of Huo;sian Chlldt·en .... . . . .. .. . .. !•'rom White Hussia Arr. l>y Harvey Gaul The Choir III. :Nativity ................. Dupre Christmas E-vening ........... . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . l\lauro-Cottone :\larch of the Magi Kings ..... . . _ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . DuhoiH 01'ga.n IV. Carols-While by My Sheep I \''atched at Night . 17th Century l'nt-a-pan .... Burgundian -C'arol Christmas Song ... Hislop-Smith Christmas Song .....•..•.. Holst The Cholr Delta Phi Fraternity To Y. C'hristmas · 0 ~,;,;_; 1 ·- ... • .. - Dethier Entertain Faculty at Tea 0 N()l'th Possible Rhodes Scholai· The Delta Phi Fraternity will hold a faculty tea on Sunday after- noon from 4 to 7. Those pouring will be Mrs. Edward Ellery, Mrs. Ernest J. Berg, Mrs. Dixon Ryan Fox, Mrs. Charles F. F. Garis, Mrs. Harrison C. Coffin, and Miss Mil- dred March. Mrs. Frederick C. Schmidt, Mrs. Peter I. Wold, Mrs. H. Laurence Achilles, Mrs. Charles A. Waldron, Mrs. Earl E. Cummins, and Mrs. George D. Kellogg will assist. Robet·t C. North, '36, recently elected to the Phi Beta Kappa Chapter here, left yesterday for in- tervieVJs in New York by the com- mittees in charge of awarding Rhodes Scholarships in this district. North has been active in student activities here including the Student Council, Cross-country, the Chemi- cal Club and the Outing Club. He is NeVIS Editor of The Concordien- sis. Classical Club Celebrat(lS Bi-Mellenium of Hor~ce The age-old debate as to whether the peet Horace, whosE) bi-:rnellen- ium celebration is being held· th.is year was really a lover of :nature, or whether he merely wrote allout nature because it was the conuno·n subject of his time was discU.J3sed in the talk given by Dr. Gee>rge D. Kellogg, professor of Latin, at the meeting of the Classical Club in his home Tuesday evening, The great .poet was a true lover of lla- ture, Dtr, :Kellogg intimated. iD. ·his talk which included a descviption of the principle ·odes of Horace as wen as several translations. The program of the meeting also included a Latin play by Dr, Kel- legg, Suffragatrix Milltans, with Charles -Reeves, '37, James !l'[ac:Ke:n- zie '37 and Robert North '35 -ta.king the roles -respectively of :Eo:race, Trebatius and a Suffragette. :Rob- ert S. Langer, '36, read the play in an English translation previous to the performance. Athletic Notices Professor Harold Wittner has an- nounced that season tickets for .the 10 home basketball games will' be available this year. T·he tickets will sell for $4.00 making a total saving' of $1:25, since admittance l!>- the R. P. I. game will be seventy-..,five cents instead of the usual :fifty. Students should take advantage of the opportunity immediately, * * * .A!ll student tickets f<Jr the borne basketball games will be handled in the same manner as the football tickets. All seats are reserveci a.nd the student tickets must be pre- sented in order to obtain tllfr pass into the gymnasium. ---·0--- Prmn Committe Electi<Ons Charles Krull has requested all juniors to be present in C1lapel Sat- urday morning f·or election of the Junior Prom Committee. Hobbies of .Faculty Show Wide Variety of Subjeets (Continued from Page 1~ sociate professor of physics, 1vlto likes to take long w.alks through as much as twenty-five miles of the country surrounding Schenec- tady. Dr. Leonard B. Clark, professor of biology, is chiefly interested in bass and trout fishing. He also col- lects old ch1cks, while Dr. Orin J·. Farrell, professor of mathematics likes to read foreign languages, Ee Ustens to Italian short wave hroad'- casts, reads Germ.an novels, a.nd. takes a great interest in photo- graphy. Dr. Frederick Grover, professor of Electrical Engineering, is inter- ested in the study of A&tronor:ny. He also enjoys motoring throagh. parts of the United States and Can- ada Dr. FredeJ.1ick L. Bronner, act- ing! librarian, likes to attend t.he theatres and watch the New York: ·Giants play baseball. Novels of any sort appeal to him. o~~~ Corrected Correction Among the corrections of the ~i­ nancial statement for fall spcnts published in Tuesday's issue of The Concord.iensis, the correction. \$468.70 rather than $742.10\ applied -to losses from varsity cross coun- .try for the season 1934-5. The Acme Barber\ Shop Welcomes All UOION COLLEGE STUDENTS 509 'Union St. NEAREST THE CAMPUS PINE GROVE DAIRY 118 5. Ferry Street Schenectady, N. Y. Mildness etter Taste :: ::· V0l. LIX., Famou Granfl Spen Lyman B1 Speak on' On J~ Othel' L :President Lecture~ Sforza Lyman 'E editor, and the series Foundation rent year, talk on Jan pel on \Un of his famo Beecher St yesterday b Fox. Other nc here, spons will be Cot: Foreign Mi bassador to ed an hon• bia Univer the Memor on \'I'he li Europe\ a \The Inter: rope.\ He thur C. Pi naturalist, who will cl ture on FE rial Chapc ture.\ Mr. Sto'li book \Sai ers\ will i1 show how ters in \1J out of ac life of his scribe the Beecher S coin at th president tie womaiJ made thi brave mo crossed tl: ice to el catchers Stowes w child in : taining tl: include s' tions of l: Lyman ditions of both writ !ems that and of th uated frc (Cc Stud DiffE Jonath In 1832 a uated tb Beta K.a lege he as a stti day mig playing and tell day, he above th the !ibn <Jughly c home, t his clot' hold wit and me prevaler college. 1832: \ were kr and it · currenc cases' s late at Vulgar too oftc Amor class 1 Pears01 them i1 with tl writes, \He ~ wicked picture gard ix and p: read tl doubt but m anothe was a sessin~

1~ w-110 through of in also col- Orin .J. b.ematics Ee broa.d'- els, and photo~ is inter- throagh. ·Can- ad- the York:. of.any- the ~i­ sports of The \ applied. coun- N.Y. te ' r I i I I • • trnsts V 0l. LIX., No .. 26 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1935 Organ Scares Students, So PEJrtrait Unaccepted PR[CE FIVE CENTS Famous Aut:h.or' s Grands()ll Is Fi~rst Spencer 1,ecturer, Lyman Beecher Stowe Will Speak on 'Un-cle Toltl's Cabin' On January Eighth Union has a new portrait hanging in the Old Chapel, but it isn't dedicated yet. And the college hasn't really gotten around to accepting it, The portrait is of Jonathan Pearson, the tragic .occasion, daily a:ssembly .last Saturday. The Development of Economic Thought, and a Seminar To Be Given Changes in lVIodei'n Languages Make Field \Up Comparative Literature New Divisional Course English Pl'ogram Unde1·goes Changes Amounting· To to Date\ · Reorganization Scheduled on the program were Codman Hislop, '31, who was to tell of Pearson's life and achievements, and Dr. Charles N. Waldron, who was to satisfy the formalities of the occasion. In the background, like an ominously-robed Greek chorus, lurked the choir an:d the 0rganist. S. S. 38 Expanded Donation fol' Books The Division of Language and Literature wiU offer, beginning next year, a course in Comparative Lit- erature, presenting to the student a conspectus of the important types of litera:ture as they have developed throughout the world. Some atten- tion will be devoted to the social, politicai, and psychological factors· which have conditioned literary de- velopment; and Or-iental as well as to European standa1·ds of literary expression will be considel:\ed. Modern Authm~s Stressed Othe1· Le-cturers Named :President Fox 1\..lso Announces Lectures by Co11nt Carl() Sforza,. A. C. Pillsbury Course to Become Two Full- y ear Studies in Accounting, Corporations Dr. Frank Bailey Gives $300 For Volumes in New Courses Lyman Beecl::tei\ Stowe, authm, editor, and lecture!' will inaugurate the series ·of Ichabod Spencer Foundation LedtLres .for the cur- rent year, when 1he delivers his talk on January .g, .in the Old Cha- pel on \Uncle \Torn's Cabin,\ novel of his famous IP'andn::wther, Harriet Beecher Stowe, it was announced: Mr. Hislop gave his ta:lk in good order, but as he yielded the floor, the organist, with his back to the proceedings, struck up the recessional. The student body, overly anx- ious for that 10:20 class, stam- peded out every available exit, with the result that Jonathan Pearson's portrait remains un- accepted and unhallowed. Several changes and additions to With th new curricular changes, the curriculum of the Division of the modern language field now ha> Social Studies for 1936-37 have a co-ordinated program in both been approved by the Curriculum French and German, with the rea·d· ·Committee, it was announced to- ing aim as the chief objective but day, although the number of with ample emphasis on the spoken courses offered in the division wiH languages, according to Dr. George ·not be increased. Two new courses, H. Denton, chairman of the field. ~~~-erday by President Dixon Ryan. Two Union Alumni Other noted lecturers to talk R •t I c t here, sponsored :by the Foundation eUfll e fi 0 U r · will be Count Carlo Sforza, former - Foreign Minister of Italy and Am- bassador to FranC!e, recently award-· Todd, '97 and E1·skine, '00 ed an honorar-y deg;1ee by Colum- . bia University, IVho will speak in ! Meet in Druckman Case, For· the MemorialCha:pel on January 20: mer Freshman Presiding on \The Future of Democracy in : Europe\ and o11o J'an.uary 27 on. --- \The Internati<Jna.l Situation in Eu- When Hiram C. Todd, trustee of. rope.\ He will be f<Jllowed by Ar- ·Union College, was sworn in as· thur C. Pillsbury- of California, a Specia:l Deputy Attorney General naturalist, inorentor, and explorer,' to press the new Druckman case· who will deliver an illustrated lee- investigation, the judge on the· ture on February- 28 in the Memo- bench may have felt a slight thrill riai Chapel e»n ••M:iracles in Na- of exultation at having reversed a ture.\ situation which may have elicited the Development of Economic The former courses Ccataloguec Thought, and a semina:r in the spe- . as) 1, and 12, are joined into one cia! aspects of particular institu- : course, the aim being to stimulate tions will be offered, and the pres- sophomores by contact with good ent Social Studies 38, Corporate Or- freshmen a:nd the freshman ganization, is to be expanded into . through immediate contact with two full year courses which will sophomores. be offered in a'lternate years. The course in the development of The former French 11 is now economic thought, which will be French Classics; the .former French known as Social Studies 30, is to 21, nineteenth centnry literature, be given by Dr. Philip Sta:nley, As- will be a survey of French litera- sistant Professor of Philosophy, ture of an advanced nature, in- and students will be admitted to it tended for students who have a lot only by permission of the instruc- of French and want to do real tor, In order that Professor Stan- work in the field. ley may offer this course, Profes- German Courses :Reorganized sor Harold Larrabee will give So- The German cotuses are reorga:n- cial Studies 51, Contemporary Phil- ized in much the same way, ex- osophical Problems, previously giv- cept that the nineteenth century en by Professor Stanley. course precedes the classics. The Course Expanded advanced survey courses will be di- The division of Social Studies 38, vided into two years, the first half Corporate Organization, into two will treat the earlier literature and full year subjects, will result in the second half will deal with mod- more extended courses in Account- ern and contemporary literature. ing and Corporation Finance, each Dr. Frank Bailey, '85, has given of which make up about half of the $300 for books with which to de- present course. In his announce- velop the work in these two !iter- ment, Dr. Earl E. Cummins, Chair- ature c-ourses which are to be giv- man of the Division of Social Stud- en for the first time at Union Col- ies, pointed out that \experience lege. It is hoped that a great deal has clearly demonstrated the im- of modern liteuature will be read possibility of doing all of this work in these courses. thoroughly in one year's time; and This course will be directed en- tirely by Dr. Harrison C. Coffin, chai1man or the division. From time to time, however, various members of the staff will be invited to lecture to the class on their sev- eral specialties, This i:> the first time th.at an ef- fort has been made to give a course in Comparative Literature in Union College. The divisional system of- fers possibilities for integration that did not exist before; this cou1se represents anothei\ step to- ward the realization of those possi- bilities. The course in Comparative Literature will take the place of the course in Greek Literature in trans- lation which has been given for many years,' and it will a:lternate with the course in Gr-eek and Roman History, now listed in the catalog as Greek 14. Debaters Win Over Wells College 'Jearn Follow 2-1 Victory in Morning By Non-Decision Debate With Skidmore Fnshmau Course Emphasizes Composition, Readings in Conternporal'ies ''Changes in the English teaching program at Union are so many a:nd far-reaching that they amount to a reorganization,\ said Dr. Bul'ges Johnson, chairman of the field of English, commenting on the revised curriculum. \Certain changes in freshman and sophomore years were necessary and inevitable. These is turn compelled other changes throughout.\ In the new program, as in the past the work of freshman year will emphasize composition. A min- imum objective is that students shall be trained to set forth facts and opinions simply and clearly in unmistakable English; and to write a good letter on any subject with- in their grasp. \If in addition to these min!mus essentials,\ said Dr. Johnson, \students can be encour- aged to express themselves with some grace and individuality of style, even genius w!ll have full op- portunity to discover itself.\ Modern Authors Studied \But it is not fitting that stu- dentsdents should have no class room contacts with good literature during the freshman year,\ he con- tinued, \since for many students this may be the only college work in English. Obviously that contact should be with modern literature and not with those writing in ob: solete styles of other periods. Lit- erature will be introduced to the freshmen through reading and dis- cussion of representative authors of today.\ Mr. Stowe who is noted for his· a \Your Honor\ 38 years ago, ex- book \Saint S!nne:rs, and Beech- plaining to a lordly senior why the ers\ will in his forthcoming lecture Alma Mater was not properly sung. show how the scenes and charac- Supreme Court Justice Erskine ters in \Uncle 'i:'ora's· Cabin\ grew C. Rogers, '00, and Mr. Todd, '97 out of actual ~periences in the are holding a reunion in Brooklyn life of his grandcrwther. He will de- all because a truckman was beaten scribe the meeting' between Harriet over the head with a pool cue, Beecher Stowe and. Abraham Lin- strangled, and . le~~ dead in a ga- coln at the White Bouse when the rage. The prosecution of his slayers president said, ••so this is the lit- was mishandled so Governor Leh- tle woman 'Wll.o wrote the book that man asked Justice Rogers to take inade this ~ig war.\ Eliza, the over the case and appointed Mr. brave mother of the novel who Todd as special prosecutor. crossed the ()hio R.lver on floating Both the Union College men tak- ice to elude the pursuing slave- ing charge of the Druckman case catchers actually \Worked for the received the Ph. B. degree from Stowes who assisted: her and her their alma mater and went on to child in reac:h!ng -canada and at- study law. For a time they met in taining their freedom. He will also the la:W co:urts up-s~ate, usua:lly on include some of Jl.is own recollec- opposmg s1des, and 1t was not long the increasing importance of a: Brought Up to Date knowledge of accounting in busi- \Union's offering in the modern ness, law and government warrants languages is now brought up to the attempt to give that thorough date,\ said Dr. Danton. grounding in the fundamentals of \The trend is to have one aim in the subject which is possible in a each course and one type of rea:d- full year course. As an eminent ing, carefully co-ordinated and The Union debating team encoun- tered a busy turn in their schedule yesterday, when they met and de- feated the Wells College debaters in a contest .broadcast over station WGY, and then staged a practice debate with Skidmore College last night ih the Old ChapeL In the morning Union. gained a 2-1 decision over their opponents by upholding the affirmative of the argument \Resolved that a pros- pective c·ollege student would do better to enter a co-educational in- stitution.'' Charles Honikel '38 and Bernard Krause '39, debated for Union. Annette Webb and Jean Heller upheld the negative side of the question. In sophomore year students will be introduced to the great tradi- tion of English literature. The year will be divided into four parts, of eight weeks each, and in each part attention will be directed toward one period ·in English literature as exemplified by a few outstanding writers. \This plan differs from what is generally termed a survey in that it will be much more con- densed and less superficial,\ said Dr. Johnson. The first week in each of these eight-week periods will be used to present a picture of the social, political and economic conditions which formed a back- ground for the literature of that time. To this end instructors from the division of social studies will be invited to co-operate. tions of his .grandmother before Rogers was appointed Dis- L . ' trict Attorney of his home county American historian has remarked; graded. ----01---- .. yman Sto\We c~:rn~s on the tra- They were both active in thei; dlhons ~f the fanuly, m that he has undergraduate days in athl r both wntten an·d lectured on prob- d th . ' . ~ . 1 cs !ems that faee tl!.e man of the past \ an o er extracurnc~lar activities. d fth t M S Small wonder the JUdge on the an o e pr-esen · r. towe grad- bench leaned over and excha:rtg d uated from Ha.rvard in '04, as a a few whispered confidences wi~h 'It is almost impossible to .get a: clear grasp of model'n civilization without some understanding of the corporate unit;' and this w111 be undertaken in the new course, Cor- poration Finance.'\ Christmas Services Draw Large Crowd Last night Lon Barringer '39, and Honikel upheld the nega:tive side of the argument \Resolved: that Congress should be allowed by a two-thirds vote in each house to override a decision by the Supreme Court which declares an act of Congress unconstitution.al.\ {Continued <>n Page 4) the man whose oath he was taking. Student$ Of A Century Ago Did Not Differ Much From Modern Collegians The course in accounting will be known as Social Studies 38, and that in Corporation Finance as So- cial Studies 40. The seminar which the division is adding, Social Studies 56, is to be Largest Numbel' So Far At- tend Three Pre-Christ· mas Events \The introduction of semester courses is of gl:\eat advantage to the English Department,\ Dr. Johnson declared. \It will be pos- sible not only t() offer a half-year course in the English Novel, fol- lowed by a half-year in the English Drama, but in such a. course as Advanced Composition to have a mid-year break when students who restricted to qualified seniors who wish to undertake an intensive study of special aspects of particu- lar institutions under the direction of members of the staff. 0 ·sunday was literally the most crowded day in the history of the Memoria:! Chapel as the choir gave their three services before crowds that aggregated over 2,1()0. Jonathan Pearson entered Union sense. His pride of personal appear- In 1832 as a S()'phomore, and grad- ance was founded upon a pair of uated three years later with Phi downy whiskers which caused much Beta Kappa honon. While at col- trouble in raising.'' lege he led the saine kind of life Some of the slang expressions as a student. of h.is day or of any l).eard at college In Pearson's day day migh.t lead. He delighted in Guy Griswold Announces Class Day Committees It was also a strenuous day for the singers, who climaxed months of rehearsal singing, with short in- termissions from 9 o'clock irt the morning until 10 at night. The affirmative side was upheld by Marcia Goldys and Jane Noble who were well supported by a bus- load of their sister students. The feminists asserted that the Supreme Court with its present powers re- tards social legislation, wbile Union countered that the balance between the states and the Federal govern- ment must oe preserved. will gain no further advantage from the course may withdraw and receive credit for the half-year.\ playing trieRs up~n his professors are comparable in sense if not in and tells h.ow, 0one cold w1nter's · sound to those that we of today Guy Griswold, president of the use. He speaks of \bootlicking a · 1 day, he placed a bucket of water prof. so as to get a high bill.\ This semor c ass, announced yesterday above the library >door so that when that the following men have been the librarian entered he was thor- practice is rl:)ferred to now as· \pol- appointed for Class Day: Arthur oughly dreiL<Jhed and had to return ishing the apple.\ A student who Bullard, Marshall; Esmond Gif- home, teetll. cba. t:teJ:\ing to change worked hard at his .books to get a ford, Historian·, Carl Olson, Orator·, The greatest number of students ever to attend Sunday chapel, 250, in addition to more than 500 townspeople came to the morning service, which wa:s entirely devoted to the choir, while the largest Sun- day afternoon crowd, more than Survey Shows Faculty Pastimes Are Very Similar To Everyday Work 800, heard them as assisting artists Continuing with our investigation with Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh. into the ·hobbies of the faculty good grade was called a \poler.\ his clothes. ae >did not, howevel', Again, we today have a distinct Robert Langer Poem; Donald hold with drualteness and profanity feeling of rapport with the student Trumbull, Prophesy; Charles Reid, and more than Once decrl ·es the Song·, Jack Kearns and Charles · of a hundred years ago when we prevalence <Jf these· two factors at read that a disagreeable fellow then Kennedy, Keepers of the Jug. college. He writes of the class of was labeled a \J)uke.\ The Class Day committee will 1832: \-several of its members consist of James Kimball, chair- were known as vicioUs young men, There has been much discussion man, and Gerard Neumann, Thorn- and it was no-t a very strange oc- in tl;l.e past few years and particu- as Palmatier, and Robert Nelson. currence to meet certain 'hard larly in the last few weeks about Michael Lavorgna, chairman, cases? staggering up to their rooms the mildness of the winter weather, Emory Burton, Collins McGovern, late at nigD.tfull of noise and wine. and the absence of snow. Many be-. and LeRoy Dyal, Jr., will form the Vulgar and p.rof.ane language was lieve it is because the gulf stream :Is Cap and Gown committee. too often indUlged in.'' moving in, and that cold winters 'Willis Brandow, chairman, Doug- Among the members of his own are a thing of the past. It may les Lambeth, Michael Fiore, and class ther.a were several whom help these· to read what Pearson Dan.iel Wohl will have charge of Pearson disliked, and in describing wrote on Janua~y 11th, 1833: \Not programs, announcements, and in- them in hios .diar-y he does not deal . a bit of snow. Such winters must vitations. with them toe gently. Of one he be expected, for by the course of John Hallenbeck, chairman, John writes, n()t toe> complimentarily: nature as fast as a country is clear- · Emans, and William Green will \He was the Dlt>St profane and ed and cultivated the duration and take care of the Class Banquet. wicked fellow h college; the exact severity of the winter !lecreases.'' picture of a Cataline, pale and hag- But two years later, on Jant1ary 1st gard in his features, his eyes black he writes \During the two days and piercing. One could not but past the weather has been growing read the Villil.in in him. His talents, colder, until the thermometer stood doubt not, were- of the first order, 32 degrees below zero.'' It would but neglected and perverted.'' Of appear from this that cold and another llE wt·ites scathingly: \Be snowy winters are not a thing of W!!-S a. great cowardly dunce ·pos- the past, in spite of civilization and sessing Dl<ll'e vanlty than common the gulf stream. Choir Notice The Choir will sing in the Daily Assembly services Friday morning, and aH members are requested to· be present at 9:30 o'clock, or as soon thereafter as possible, for a short rehearsal, The evening carol sing, spon- members, Dr. Ernst J. Berg, chair- sored by the college Christian As- man of the division of Electrical sociation, drew 1,300 more, making Engineering, telis us: \My chief a total of 2,10(). fn addition, an un- hobby for many years has been to determined number heard the try to express by equations simple broadcast in the morning over sta- phenomena occuring about us. For tion WGY and the carols sent out instance to find an eCJ.uation which over Schenectady through a spe-· expresses what takes place inside cially arranged amplifying system .of a rubber band when it is in the evening. stretched. Singing many of their more fa- \During the last two years, I miliar pieces, the choir also gave have also been trying to learn to several S·ongs new in their reper- work in wood and have found that toire. Ghief a,mong these was \The it takes remarkably little skill to Three Ships\ by Taylor, distin- produce fairly presentable useful guished by an. elaborate accompan- results. I have learne\1 a lot about iment on organ and piano. what not to do ;~-nd just a little Other selections given were \Lo about what to do to .get good re- How a Rose E'er Blooming\ by suits.\ Praetorius, Holst's \Christmas D'r. George H. Danton, professor Song\ and \Midwinter and the of German, says that he liltes to old Burgundian carol \Pat-a-pan.\ read Chinese literature and collect The chapel was especially decor- Chinese items, while Professor Pat- ated for the occasion with lighted terson H. French gets a great deal Christmas trees, wrea:ths and can- of pleasure out of repairing radios dles. and reading. Attending Russian Ballets and dance recitals, and traveling in for- eign lands are the bobbies of Pro- fessor James S. Green Jr. while Dr. Samuel L. Leonard, assistant pro- fessor of Biology, likes to fish, travel,. and carry on his research work. Dr. Ernest M. Ligon, assistant professor of psychology, collects stamps, likes to watch football, and play handball. Reading, fencing, mountain climb- ing, and horseback riding are the many hobbies of Mr. Kurt von Forstmeyer, of the modern lan- guage division. Raising potatoes in the summer at South Paris, Maine and study- ing during the :winter the theoreti- cal factors envolved in their growth is the bobby of D1·. Edward Ellery, chairman of the· faculty. Dr. George D. Kellogg, professor of Latin, gets a great deal of pleas- ure out of listening to music and participating in social work in the Italian-American community.

Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1935 insh\uctors to give aH the courses which the division would like to offer. Nor are there at present enough students who would take 1 Let the Grecian Scream SECRET SERVICE II \il Causa Persa Parole Assai\ FOUNDED 1877 I935 Member I936 14.ssociated Co\leeiate Press Disni bator of Collee>iate Die>est Sole am! exclusive national advertising re1n·ese mat! v (lS NATIONAL AlJV.BHT'lSINU ~ER\'ICE. Iuc. ~20 1\ladl:; on A veu ue Nt:W Y udc City ·Chicago - I3o~lon - San Franci>;l'O - Los kngel<!s l'ortlaucl - SeutHe The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Publitihed 'Tuesdays and Fridays throughout the college year, except during Christmas and spring rece:;;;es. Publication Office, The Gazelle PI·ess,334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4·U41 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matt~er ___ _ Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.0(1 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliruan Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 1-0133. Senior Board Van Vechten 'frumbull ...•.... Editor-in-Chief lJelta l'hl llouot>-4-Utl45 John Anderson .............•.. Managing Editor l'~t UJt~tlun Huuoc-1-o7Iu Albert H. Sleven5on ........... ~ports Editor l'oi C potion lluu,;c-1·ti71U Robert C. North .................. News Editor Delta Up:;ilou lloL1~•-4-7n~ Wallace '1'. Foote ....... _ ...... li'eature Editor Alpha ]ldta Phi llou:;e-4ti7:<tl Daniel B. Wohl. .......... Circulation Manager Kappa Nu llouse-4-73;!1 Robert 0. Nelson .......... Business Manager ____ ...:1='-tt::.:P~!JJ. .Alt>ha Lotlge:...-~1:...·:::!H,~:2:::.' ___ _ Junior.Boat·d AS:SO(.;IA'l'E EDITO.HS Milton Bedell Richard Passenger Ralph Cohen Fred Feldman Fenton Gage Carlton Garrison J. Bundgus R. Doig W. Dean Sopbomore Boat~d Assistant Edilors H. Erl.Zer H. Hactrnann C. Trahman M. Muroff C. Hooikel R. Ferguson these courses. These departments must grad'- ually build ·U.IJ the quality of their work in- Dear Ye Ed: Have my deepest a·ppeals no ef- tensively, till they can attract more students feet on your cold heart? Of course, I must admit you are improving-. and so justify the broadening of their pro'- only about four bad errors in the · last set, one of which I wish to cor- gram-extensively. rect. The Want-Ad should rea<l: LECTURES AND LECTURING ·wanted-Room and broad, rea- .sonable .... Some people want every- thillg. · And now that that's over with: \' ~ * On davs like some of these last few hav·e been, the less shed the :better. * !f: * Th t f tl S l t Mayhap this is going too ful', but: . e announcemen o 1e pence1· ec ures \The dairy lands in southern Eng- is o'l\ttifvincr because it sio-nifies the open- :land m·e ovell'u.n with rabbits,\ .we '=' ' J <=- ' • '=' . -read. Aha! Verily, a land flout•ts·h· ing- of the intelledual \season\ at Union. In ing with milk ,.an~ b,~nny. the past, many distinguished men have vis- One of the Seniors swear empha- ' tically in German, Italian, and Po- i ted the college and deliveeed lectures tl<rough the posthumous g·enerosity of the NOW SHOWING daug·hter of Ichabod Spencer, D. D., who The Operatic :Marxes d t d f U ' · 1822 0 · · 11 · · The Marx brothers are unortho- . gra ua e rorn nion 111 . rlgma y m~· dox and, I am convinced, com- tended to be restricted to the field of psy- pletely crazy. \A Night at thl' Opera,\ current at Proctor's is one cholog-y, the lectures have been extended to long, mad, mass of insanity almost flawlessly put together. include such widely diversified subjects as The Marx brothers used to be four, now they are three. :Zeppo . contemporary economic problems, sidelights has turned theatrical agent. He never added to the antics of the on American history, and even a discourse brothPrs, he was the romantic foil. on Chinese music. But Groucho, Harpo, and Chico are there, complete with paint. mustache, honking horn, and Ital- ian accent. In general the populal'ity of lectures and lecturing has declined since the turn of the country. Time was when any author, edu- catol', or public official of any importance was snapped np by one of the numerous lec- ture bureaus as soon as his name hit the headlines. Now with the increased circula-; tion and coveeage of newspapers and maga- zines, and the advent of the radio and the newsreel, the general public is less desirous The quality of the comic a!1Ucs of the three buffoons is quite defin· itely slapstick though actually a great part of il implies the 8lap- stick without banging anyone a tergo. But there isn't much use in trymg- to analyze their comic gen- ius. It is true that critics a1 e con- tinually having a field day by see- ing in comedians whole vistas of social implications and tragic over- tones galot·e. I am happy to say that at present the Marx brothers have not gone intellectual, they're just hilarious. Issue Editors ...... _.F. Gage, S. R. Cohen of seeing authorities and bigwigs in the The st01y? There isn't much story. What there is deals with the struggles of Kitty Carlisle and Al- lan Jones to make good in grand opera. There is a villainous tenor who is busy thwarting the two lovers and the Marx brothers busy themselves thwarting the tenor. Italy is the opening locale of the film but n.fter the villain is signed to sing in America the scene shifts acroso the ocean to New York City. In fact the whole crew of the pic- ture goes across either in palatial suites or by stowing away. Assistant Issue Editors H. A. Enzer J. Bundgus Tuesday, December 17, 1935 flesh. But colleges and other educational organ- izations keep the lecture habit going where impressal'ios have given up. Endowments and benefactions make this possible, and it is the generally recognized duty of the col- leges to offer such inteHectual fare for thei1· students and friends. The Concordiensis will not be pttblished Friday, Decembe1· 20, bec;;mse of the Christ- mas recess. Publication will be reswned the Friday after college reopens, January 10, 1936. However, a.s our racial wisdom states, it's an ill wind that blows nobody good. The chilling wind of unpopularity blows one great ~~~~~~~~~~~~~i{~ advantage into the lecturers' laps: it im- proved the quality of their audiences. Now ON THE UP A.ND UP people go to lectures because they are i!l- terested. Those who want amusement go to the movies. The scene aboard the ship in which six-no, seventeen people get into one tiny cabin and attempt to eat, manicure nails, fix pipes, mop floors and slPep is devastating to your sides. In New York the mad, merry whirl goes on. The tenor is making his debut and the brothers Marx deride to wreck it. They do! The opera is II Trovatore. The orchestra plays the first page of the score and then· -see for yourself. Things happen and happen. The Ma:rxes don costume and go on- stage. Then they are chased and take to the flies of the stage. I leave it to you what the Marx brothers can do let loose in miles of hanging ropes. They wreck the stage and finally blow out the lights. During the darkness they hoist the tenor aloft and the lovers take up the opera. It is apparent from the announcements printed elsewhere in this issue, that the long-awaited house cleaning in the English and modern language fields has co1ne. The curricula in both these fields have been re- vised and extended so as to ba almost un- It is fitting to mention the use of these two as relief from the recognizable to a lang-uage and lit major un- DOGMATISM VERSUS TOLERATION comedy of the picture. Both are · f excellent singers and actors. They der the old regime. The stimulus o new When a man has devoted a considerable' are written into the story just minds in the administration and ill the fac- pal..~- of hi's li'fe .to t·he study of a certain sub- often enough to prevent your get- -~ ting Ill from laughing. The best ulty of these fields is clea1·ly demollstmted. ject he may legitimately set himself up as scene which the lovers do is sing- ing a: duet from Il Trovatore. The These fields have been under fire during an authority on that subject. Having thought effect is beautiful, especia.lly in con- recent years from vaTious unofficial critics, about it, and around it, he may have arrived trast to our insane friends. Help- ing the whole thing along is the and they have suffere<l great loss of prestige at definite conclusions, the logical result of best photography r have ever seen amon£\ the students who see colleg-e as a his whole system of thought. It has been visited on a comedy. It moves with ~ the mood of the picture and varies chance to study as well as a mea11s ()f getting said that the more intellectual or informed· from blatant glare for low slap- d P h f h . . . . stick to beautiful play of light and a egree. er aps s01ne o t IS crihclsm was a man is, the less discussion he will allow shadow in the duet scene. exaggerated and unjustified, but the fact on the part of his associates, for more often · Many people do not like the Marx brothers. That is their privilege. that the college as a whole had lostcon.fidence than not they will merely be voicing ideas But anyone who has ever felt a in the English and modern languag-e depart- which he has long· ago considered and either. wild desire for a lovely wide canoe paddle when his hoste~s bends over ments could not be remedied by scorning or accepted or eliminated. to pick up that napkin she drop- . · th 't' F d f t ped, will like \A Night at the Ignormg e cr1 I?s .. •ewer a~ 'ewer s u- Undoubtedly it must be very monotonous Opera.\ dents ch?se to maJor 111 these fie.lds, and last at times for a professor who considers him- State Spectacle th t k h d 11 t J The State theatre has not been year ell' S oc reac e an a - lme r:>w. self well-informed to be compelled to listen visited by any particularly good With the appointment of several new pro- to the prattling of infants in his class-room. pictures lately. Last weekend saw \The Last Days of Pompeii\ estab- fessors last spring, th.e up-swing began. Now At the same time, when the subject happens lished there. After having seen and the curricular revisions offer fresh evidence to be one which calls for a subJ'ective estima- disliked \The Crusades\ this re- viewer was prepared to like R. K. that these departments are on the up and tion or opinion, one man's, even a student's O.'s spectacle. But that is not to d t · d t · t 1 t · th be. The evidences of bad taste ex- U?, e ermme o g1Ve s uc en s In ese may very well be as acceptable as another's, hibited by DeMille were lacking fields a program of study that ranks with even a professor's. If an opinion which did but along with them wa:s lacking tl t f II b the tremendous excitement of his 1a o any co ege com para le to 1Jnion in not fit into the system previously built up . battle scenes. The story was not size and facilities. by the professor were OCCasionally admitted Bulwer-Lytton but a sometimes mawkish Christian mysticism with lin spite of the extent of the -changes, the as a possible alternate, the atmosphere of a miracle, a renunciation and a re- p roQ'ram announced for langua£\es and liter- the class room- would be decidedly 1nore pentance thrown in. The spectade ~ ~ scenes were weighted down with ature division still l'e])resents a comp·romise scholarly. There would be less of the \dish too much technical effect work and between scholarly a1nbitio11s .and b-udgetary it out\ and \throw it back on the exam\ at- r~:u~~~tl~o6£. 0 rTh~~~':rt~h~ll~ci~ limitations. There are not enough fLmd.s or titude. not ba:d it Is rathet· dull. J. B. D. 'l' Now that football has gotten its New Deal we wish to e:xtend our !ish whenever he gets angry, hia· congratulations to Nels Nitchman words being a complete mystifica-, and wish him the best of tuck for tion to his fl'iends .. · .A sort of a' next season (somewhat previous). cross word puzzle? Also we would like to extend that * * * True to form: The manufacturer of penny banks who was easily rat- tled. * * * good luck to the present backetball season. * * * t We are happy to note that a few of out• professors are interested in intel'lectual advancement as witness · the attention exhibited by Messrs. ·Our modern version: Old Mother Hubbard Took a Peke in her cupboard, To keep him inside all alone. But 'twas not hot in there, 'Twas in fact Frigidaire! Green, He!'rick and Zabuesnic at the Birth Control lecture the other evening at the Civic Playhouse. * * * t We were under the impression · that the racing season at Saratoga * * * was confined to the month of ,Aug- And so her dog froze to the bone. \I have noticed,\ writes a gen-. ust, but, judging from the contest tleman, \that all great wits are: staged by the Alpha Delts and the kind and courteous.\ Gracious me!· Sigs Saturday night, we were misin- * * * . formed. The Adelphi Bar was the From the Star; \Statistics show post with the A. D.'s representing beer drink·ing in Austria reached a Justice in pursuit of the Bad Mens new low dmi·ng the first five <Sigs) who had overlooked .paying months of this year\ ... We have it their chec]{. on t·e!iable authority, however, that * * * it's coming up. t The Delta Phi's showed their * * * usual lack of foresight by having One of the frosh asks me if in their FacultyTea Sunday. We have case the library should catch on it upon good authority that the D. U.'s and the A. D.'s get much better .fire, would the smoke pour out in results (five to ten points) by hold- volumes. ing the its in May. * * * * * .. An inventor claims to have made t It has been suggested that Jimmy a container for gasoline that will Riggs wear overshoes at the next absolutely prevent it from catching basketball game or at least sit in fire. Huh-that's not new. He an obscure corner so that his hos- should Pee my cigarette lighter. iery (socks to you) will not detract * * * \Sinking oil wells is an exciting and a dangerous job,\ says a geol- ogist. Dunno, but it looks to me a~ though it':; all boring. * * • On the campus today we find plenty to add mire. \China at the Crossroads,\ reade a headline: It's tough we can't have someone to sweep that stuff up reg- ularly. * * * A light-haired understudy recent- ly appea-red in a brunette star's role since the later had to be out of town .... Absence made the part grow blonder. * * * Ad: \Treasure Buried. Send for free literature.\ Too bad I haven't any treasure to bury right now. • * * 'Nothcr Ad: \Hundreds Airplanes, $40 up.\ And how much on Terra Firma?\ * * * J>orne Tho sheep and cows and goats are seldom horse, Ya gotta study math for no re Morse. • * * And l:'O to bird -Me for the Moun- tebanks in Albany tonight. Yours, I'm sure, G. P. S.-Bill Owns and I think the C. E.'s ou~htta be crated-they're such a bunch of dumb eggs. P. P. s.- To the boys-A very merry XXX mas. from the enjoyment of the cash customers. * .. .. t Judging from the discords emit- ting from the carrillon Sunday night after the Carol Sing, Ed. Moulton's mind was not on his work or else his female understudy has a lot to learn. .. .. * ·t And so we come to the end of an\ other year-in January we hope that Uncle Philipe will be with us to brighten up the winter months. A Happy Yuletide to you all. Es, Es and Bee. ---0 Notes on Our Contemporaries Some Gel! Probably the oldest co-ed in the country is a woman candidate for a master's degree in archaeology at Brown. She is 81. * \' * Far:mel' Purdue's charter stipulates that there be on the board of regents \one farmer, one woman, and one person of good moral character.\ \' . . No Myth It's not a myth. Accol'ding to physical education department sta- tistics from several universities, the average gets lighter and shorter every year. * * * Broke in a Month - University of Akron students are fined five cents for being late to class. HOME FOR THE CHRISTMAS do HOLIDAY? W.i/1 kul~ yout ~ QUICKLY tMU/ ECONOMICAlLY Don't spoil the thrill of getting home again by worrying about the shipment of your baggage. Solve the problem by leaving everything to Railway Express. We will call for your trunks, baggage and personal belongings and send them home on fast passenger trains tbro11gh to destination. You can take yourtrain home with peaceofmind-knowing that your baggage will be there quickly and safely. Railway Express service is a decided economy in expense, too. After vacation,.send your baggage back the same way. We give a receipt on pick-up and take a receipt on de• livery •.. double proof of swift, sure handling. For service or information merely call or teleph<lne Cor. WALL & LIBERTY STS. 'l'HONE 4-5612 DEPOT OFFICE: N. Y. C. STATION ':PHONE 4-8512 SOHENECTADY, N.Y. RAILWAY EXPRESS AGENCY, INC. NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE TUNE IN ON THE RAILWAY EXPRESS NEWS PARADE Every week froin the followinf1 stqtions: WEEI • WOR • WHK • WLS • KWK e WDSU • WFAA WGST • KYA • KNX: • KSTP • KOMO • WB,AL • KOIL Watch for /ccaf llnnoun<~menlr - -- c ;;;;;;;;::;;; Qui Both Best Larries 1l Lio By H The Gm•ne go through ' i row night ill \ renee Univ I .Alumni gym will be the I men before scheduled F lumbia Lio: Broadway-11 far the Unic in technical and in nerV( Rochester. J two will be With the approaching having hi:> easy this v held yester today and ' consist of The open in: ed the Ga ground-wor events. A large arid Fredd~ attend the York. Wore cerning th! game. St. L: St. Lawr cupy the n tet and st1 at least. Tl contests t scores. Arr pea:ted a ttl and Cleary Western ( chin from Fortified t will afford the strong Coach played ag high resp( the Garne doubtedly sort of 0 will be p the Cantc three let I mores. Stl football f1 foot three Shannon, year in st erans. T Rockmor1 ing forw the rest nine men tomorrow The The Cl big-time ing roste several c ing on t first tim' hopes fo team fr opened Poly ani the toug 11, aCC·OI on the Union g Decemb1 Captai stan din@ start at White, I probabll ball far. Jim Caf 1934 cal at the f Crowle~ Some men ir Jack ( Brescia Namee startin€ E For 1 Nitchw men; Waldrc Smith, fine w and G1 contes1 the u Nitchn upon l this y1 UnioJ The Union Frida: o'clocl ium lc street ] ~

~E ·11 ~tte:n its end OU·r itchman Luck for :evious). md that .cketbaU :~.t a few ested' in witness Messrs. ~snic at :1e other >use. pression laratoga of ,Aug- contest and the ·e misin- was the esenting ad Mens L paying :d their · having We have .t the D. lh better by hold- t Jimmy the next st sit in his hos- e detract he cash ds emit- Sunday ing, Ed. on his derstudy td of an, ve hope with us months. ll. td Bee. ~s din the idate for ~ology at tes that regents and one acter.\ ·ding to .1ent sta- ities, the shorter .ents are r late to • r .. £; LY 1'1. tg LY o. LC I THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, DECEM~ER !7, 1935 Quintet Faces St. Lawrence Here, Columbia In New York ~--------------------~--------------------~------------------------------------------ Both Opponents Are Antong· Skidmo1·e-Union outing· Attracts Twenty Skius 'Garnet Qsintet Swamps Vermont 55-27, Defeats S(rappy Rochester Team 40-35 Swimming Team Suffering· From Dearth of Material Best O,n Garnet Schedule Larries Have Won Two Games in as Many Stat·ts; Lions Are Slated. to Capture Easte1·n Conference Title This Season ~-------------------------- By HYMAN ENZER The Garnet ·basketball team wiH ·1 I go throagh its third ordeal tomor- ••.• INTRAMURAL ATHLETICS. row night in meeting the St. Law- rence University team on the .A:lumni gymnasium at 8 o'cloclt. It Schedule will be the last trial for the Dutch- men before the important meeting 1'onigbt scheduled Friday eve, when the Co- ' 7 :30--Phi Sigma Kappa vs. Alpha· lumbia Lions entertain in thei! Delta Phi Broadway-119th Street den. Tbu::o 8:30--Beta Theta Pi vs. Phi Delta far tbe Union men have been tried Theta in technical skill against Vermont After the completion of the Tues- · and in nerve and endurance against day evening contests, hostilities will Rochester. A combination of these be postponed tmtil after the Christ-· two will be tested tomor10w. · mas 1•ecess. An intr:tmural foal With the most important game~· shooting contest will be held soon approaching, Coach Nitchman i:o aftet· school l'esumes in January. having hi;:; charges talte t hingE' * * * easy this week. Light scrimmage Basketball Results held yesterday, and the practicct: today and ThUrsday will probabl~. The leading contenders for the in- consist of only shooting basltets. dividual league titles began to hit The opening contests have provid·' their stride during the past week ed the Garnet players suff.icient of intramural coU:rt competition. ground-work for the coming bib Alpha Phi Delta topped Della Phi events. 19-11, while Kappa Sigma over- A large delegation of students whelmed Kappa Alpha 32-6, thereby and Freddy Wyatt a:te expected tc: tying for the leads in the National attend the Columbia game in New and American Leagues respectively, York, Word has been received con· In the closest contest of the week, cerning the time and price of the the Kappa Nu five staged a last game, half rally by nosing out the previ- St. La~vmnce Threatens ously undefeated Psi U's 26-23. In another interesting contest North St. Lawrence, however, will oc- College won its first league game cupy the minds of the Union quin· by topping Theta Nu Epsilon 23-14. tet and students for the next day The weelts high scoret· was Dick at least. The Larries have won two Burrell, Psi Upsilon ace, who gar- contests tl:~ls far-both by easy nered thilteen points. 'l'he largest group ever to occupy Skiihabn touk over the Outing Club • Swimming isn't what it used to cabin la,;t weelt-end when a joint Kodak City Men 'Throw Scai·e. Catamount Zone Defense Fails be' At least the present interest ex- Skidmore-Union trip Jured twenty hibitcd in the varsity swimming skiing and hiking enthusiasts to Into Dutchmen ill Clo8ely Ag,·ainst Union Attack In team indicates such a case. Yes- the Thirteenth La:lte region. The terday, Coach Leona·rd stated that week-end started Friday night ContestE(l Tilt ' Season's Opener so far only ten men have reported when an advance guard of four to him for positions on the squad. from Union arrived at the <:a:bin. ·Compared with previous years this From then on people continued to Union took its second victor·y in Well pnpared for the type of de- .is a great drop in the usual num- come until by Saturday night the as many statts, when Rochester fen,;c and offense which the Ver- ber of natators who usually try out pa.rty was complete. Saturday was downed Satt:uday night, 40 to mont basketball team wete expect- for the Garnet tank team. night, after a rather difficult but · 35, in a game packed with tense/ ed to employ in the basketball con- cq.ua.J.ly humorous meal due to moments and exciting play~. As the~ tPst here last Friday, the Garnet. When asked why there was such cramped quar·te 1 ·s at the table, the proximity of the scote would imli-: quintet made good use of Coach a scarcity of available men, Coach majority of the group adjourned to cute, the game was a nip and tucl' / NitC'hman';; pt e-:censon coaching to Leonard could not state any one the open air for a short walk. Later · affair, with the two teams alter-, win the opening game 55 to 27. All out:;tanding reason. He did thinlt dancing made possible by a radio nating on the lotl.g end of the! the good qualities of the Union var-. howe_ver, that possibly the poor contributed to the cabin by Fred count. It was only in the first few I sity playcno showed themselves, but showmg of the teams in the past Wyatt, brought the evening to a and last few minll tes that Union that ·was for only one game. Ro- few years had something to do close. Sunday found groups going· held any kind of a lead at all, the chester proved once more that no with it. Also many of those who off ia different directions, one to rest of the game showing favorit- UnioP- team can be too good ·even wer·e olit for the team last year explore the Barton mine, and an- ism, in the mattet· of scoring, to after such an auspi-cious beginning. and the year before have changed other to the top of Gore mountain neither team fot· any great length From a commercial standpoint to other spot·ts or have failed to where they discovered 0 ver a foot of time. also the first game was an ex:cel- report for any activity at all. of snow and some remarkable· Grant Smith and Joe Milano con- lent one. Every reserved seat -was For the remaining three days be- winter scenery. Some of the more tinued on their high-scoring sprees ;;old, according to reports from the fore recess and for a short time ardent skiing enthusiasts spent and collected foutt€en and twelve box-office. Satm·day night likewise afterward, Leonard plans to have their time practicing on a slope points respectively to lead in the was a sell-out. a man, well versed in picking near the cabin. individual accounting for Union, Boosted by the large crowd and swimmers with possibilities, at the After a large and very welcome while Captain Maliborsld with nine, fortified with all sorts of basket· pool Gaily when the fellows are dinner for which the Skidmore and Spies and A:ndetson with eight ball knowledge the varsity cau· :>wimming at·ound. He hopes to be group received a rising vote of counters apiece }Jaced tile Roches- tiously met the Vermont learn. For able to pick up a couple of possi- thanks, everyone packed up and ter aggregation. the first 10 minutes the Catamounts ble swimmers from this group and all cars headed :;outhwa rd again. Union stat·ted !e,;livities with ,, hP!tl their own, with Captain Young develop them into some sort of Among the more distinguished bang, nmning up eight quick point' !Pading the way. Union had run up shape suitable for inter-collegiate guests from Union at the cabin last ao- · t th d f ff d b 11 pointfl to the Vermont 9, mainly competition. If they fail to get any I d D d ,.,atns · e zone 0 ense 0 ere J\ thr OU!!h the effot·ts of Ted Pod· wee t-en were r. an Mrs. :Mavor. Rochester. Aftet· this floUt ish how- \ - furthet· mal erial than the small ----o---- ever, Rochester :;witched to a man !Jielski and Grant Smith, and then ·squad now practicing there are L St d . t 1 f 1 CaptRin Milano, Van Waldron and great possibilities that the schedule eague an mgs 0 man sty c 0 P u:y, and ft om then :'.1il1e ·Prt'znat· b\' to work. on kept U i tai 1 11 b ttl d ' will have to be cancelled. Coach T D t 11 on r Y we 0 \ TnE>,.; low zone defense of the vt\s· 0 a e up the half time sco 1 e ~how\n Leonard is hopeful that anyone ' · - 1 g itors did not faze the Garnet, for 21-17 in favor o:f the Garnet. ·who who has talent at all will re- National Lea.gu{' Won Phi Sigma: Delta ......... 3 Alpha Phi Delta ........... 2 Chi Psi ................... J. Theta Nu Epsilon ... , ... 1 Delta Phi ................ J. North Co liege ........... 1 the tht·ee seniors began a passing port to him immediately for pra:c- attock that disrupted whatever re- tice, and that those who have sistance the boys from Burlington promised to come out and have <'ould put up. In the last five min· failed to do so will also be wel- utes of the game, when the six come at the Foote Pool. Union subs were scoring seven points to the Vermont regulars' two, the Burlington players aba:n- scores. Arnold fell beneath the re· Lineups pea:ted attacks of Puree\, Shannon, .\lplta J>lti Delta OU) u lo' 1 u u u u u u 0 0 1 r u 0 u 0 () 1 0 u 1 Jf u 0 l} 0 () 0 u u 0 0 I!' 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 I!' u 0 0 () () 0 u I!' l' Sigma Chi ................ <J 7 Delta Chi ................. 0 Lost 0 0 1 1 1 2 2 2 Following the intermission, Gris- wold replaced J:I.Hlano, ancl Vince Smith took Priznar's position, the regulars having ·Collected three pet·- sonals apiece, but their presence was not of immediate benefit, for Rochester took the lead for the first time in the game, 23-21, hold- ing it spasmodically until Milano replaced Podbielski who was hav- ing trouble with his bank shuts. With Milano's :presence, Union seemed to regain lost fire, and came from behind to bring the score to 30-21, with Grant Smith and Milano doing most of the scor- ing on under·t..he-basket shots. From then on jt was all Union, al- though the across-state boys put up a gallant fight to the very end. doned their· staid zone defense and began to make the game more of a personal matter. A. Noble Apkes JEWELER and Cleary, 39 to 17; and last week. :\!arm ..................... 3 Western Ontario took it on the tilUu~ci·u .••..•.....•..•..• u chin from the University, 42 to 19. :\Iattin .................... 1 F(lrtified by this record the visitors l'amtn:trut:t, A· · · · · · · · · · · · u '11 ff d h h t f :\liLrottn , ..... , ... , . , .. , .. , 2 wt a or t e orne earn some o t'amnmrot<t, t<;, •••••••••••• 2 the strongest opposition thus far. .\htr~ella .................. o Coach Burkman, who once t•'10re .•••.•.•.....•••.•••.• 1 played against Nitchman, has a l>tamante ................. u high respect for the capabilities of 'rota!~ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · !I the Garnet team. His men will un- Delta Pui (ll) U trrll'le .••••••• , •••.••••••••• 3 doubtedly be well prepared for any Llurl<e, T ......... , ........ o sort of offense or defense which !3luum .•.... • • ....... • .•.•.• u will be presented. Tse lineup for ttanclall, T. · ·. · ·. · .•....... 1 the Canton, N. Y., five contains W:tll.lriuge · · · ·· · ···· · ·· · · · U t>alrnut.u~r ............ , ••••• 1 three Lettermen and two sopho- Knnx . .. .. .. . .. . . .. • .. . . .. . u mores. Stanley Versocki, 200 pound lliukle ............•....... u football fullback; Harlan Wood, six: Total~ · .................. 5 foot three center, and Captain Bob KnpJm Sig·ma. W:!l U h d l·i'uel ro11 ••••••••• , ••••••• , • 2 Shannon, captain for t e secon Chul<, It ................... u year in succession, are starting vet- fla!l~trum ................. ~ erans. Two sophomores, Martin Kupf . • . . • • • . . • • • . • • • . • . • • • u Rockmore and Martin Byrnes, play- L'utts · · · · · · · · · · · · ·. · · ..... · u ing forward and guard, compose ~~~,:r~~: . : : ::: ::: ::: : :: ::: :: ~ the rest of tse team. A squad of \'anl~lll'\' .................... 1 nine men will be present at Union Yl.otTl~un . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . 3 tomorrow. 'l'otal:; .......... , .. , .. , , .1li Ruppa Allllta tO) U The Lions Look Forward :-.rott ...................... o Clay .............•........ 1 The Columbia team has a few Tom!' I' ins, K. ............. 2 big-time players gracing its impos- Trumbull, J ...••.•.....•.. u ing roster. In spite of the fact that McMillen · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · o several of the men are .participat- Morriss · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · U Wilson ....................... 0 ing on the va:rsity squad for the. Totals ......•..•....... , 3 first time, Coach Paul Mooney has l{apJla Nu (20) G hopes for another big season. The Spellman · · ... · · ·. · ......... 2 team from Morningside Heights :Muroff · · \ ... \ ·\ · ·\ .. \· 4 opened easily against Brooklyn z~:~~t\.:::::::::::: ::::::::: r Poly and Colgate, but is· expecting Yunicil ..................... 4 the tough battles around January Seigle ..................... 0 11, according to the sports writers Totals · · · · · · · · · · · ·. · · . · .. 13 on the Columbia Spectator. The Psi uv~nou (211) u Burrell ..................... 6 Union game, however, takes pla:ce Uatl'hell ................... 0 December 20. Baker ..................... o Captain Bill Nash, on.e of the out- Hequeml>ou1·g ............. 2 standing players in the east will Vuch:;cllerer, H. · · · ·. · · · · .. 3 start at guard fot' the Blue and Jones, c. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 0 ·Totals ................... 11 White, and his running mate will :; rotlt l'ollege (23) G1 probably be Joe Vollmer of foot- Waters ..................... 3 ball fame. Gus Ga.nzenmuller and Agostini · ··· · · · · · · · · · .... · · .. 1 Jim Casey, a]SO· veterans from the Mi!ls ................ ····· .... 2 1 I b bl t Coppolla . , ........ , ..... , . , l} 934 campaign, wi l pro a Y star W1·berley . , ................ , 3 at the forward positions, with Dan I•'a!'l' ...................... 1 Crowley jumping center. TuUtls ............. , ..... 10 Some promising second stiing 'l'ltet;t :;u I·:psilotl (H) L\ men including Merrill Robinson, gul>!Jins · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 1 Purse ..................... 0 Jack O'Brien, Bill Pierce, Mike Uoyce , .. , , ........ , . , . , , , .. 2 Brescia, Cliff Wolff; and Mac- ltol>inson ......... , ......... 0 Namee are also possibilities for L:wot·gna · · ... · · .......... 1 starting positions. Thorne · · · · · ·. · ............. 3 Totals ................... 7 StatllS Quo foi· Union Delta Upsilon !H) G Bedell ....................... 2 For Union's starting team Coach Sherman, J ........•....... o Nitchma\Il will have the same five .8verest ................... 2 CHARLES' Formerly ED'S 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 ]!' 2 () () 0 1 0 3 F u 0 0 () 0 0 u 1!' 0 0 0 0 2 u ·I ~ u 2 0 19 p G 0 u 2 0 3 u u 11 p 4 0 ~ 0 0 0 12 2 (j 32 p 0 2 4 0 0 0 0 6 F 4 s 4 2 ~ 0 26 .P 13 0 u 4 6 0 23 :P 8 2 4 u 7 2 23 p 2 0 4 0 2 6 ll p 4 0 4 men; Captain Joe Milano, Van Waldron, Mike Priznar, Grant Smith, and Ted Podbielsld. The · fine work done by Vincent. Smith and Guy Griswold in the Rochester contest has boosted the abilities of the Union reserves still higher. Nitchman feels that he {lan depend upon his taller and bigger reserves this year. The Official Union College Barber for the past 25 years. Ask any up<per classmen, they ltnow. 11 opet·ators. Schenectady's greatest barber. ----10---- Union-C()}Umbia Fans, Attention The basketball game between Union and Columbia will take place Friday night, December 20, at 8:30 o'clock in the Columbia Gymnas- ium located on Broad'Way and 119th street. Tickets will cost $.55. F'or H()use Linen Service rHONE 4-SlGIJ American Coat. Apron & Laundry Cc. 1080 Bauett St. COR. S'IATE AND BROADWAY FOUNTAIN PENS Parker Waterman Wahl Shaeffer PENS REPAIRED LYON•s 236 State St. Tel. 4-8647 American League Won Lost Kappa Sigma . . . . . . . . . . . 3 0 Theta Delta Chi ....... ; 2 0 Phi Delta Theta . . . . . . . .. 1 0 Lambda Chi Alpha ...... 1 1 Delta Upsilon . . .. .. . .. . .. 1 2 Beta Theta: Pi . . . . . . . . . . 0 1 Phi Gamma Delta , ...... 0 3 Kappa Alpha . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 2 United League Won Lost Sigma Phi .. .. .. .. . .. . .. 2 0 Neutl'als ................. 2 0 Psi Upsilon ..... , . . . . . . . . 1 1 Kappa Nu ......... ,, .... 1 1 Alpha Delta Phi . . . . . . . .. 0 1 Phi Sigma Kappa • . . . . • . . 0 1 Captain Malillorski was the chief Rochester thr~at in the second half, a:nd play-ed remarkable bas- ketball until he left the game via the personal foul route in the last quarter. \ \' * Grant Smith and Captain Joe did South College . . . . . . . .. . .. . 0 2 yoeman sel\\Vice during the second half. Smith's tapping under the 0 basket, and J<>e's drive and drib- 0 bling were thl) main factors in the 8 acquiring of Union points durinrr P the final minu.tes. \' :\1cGm·ern ................. 0 I<'enton , .... , , , . , .. , .. , .. , , 0 Totals .... , , . , .. , , . , . ,, , , ·l l{·lLPPll Sigma (2S) G' Clark .................... , 1 0 0 0 F 0 0 0 ·o 0 0 0 0 F 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 F 0 (} 0 0 0 0 0 2 6 4 8 4 0 4 Morrison .................. 3 Hallstrom ,. ............... :?; Carr , . , . , .... , ... , , •. , ,, . , 4, Pottfl ...................... 2 Van Epp,; ................ , () Faelton ...... , ........... , 2 Totals ................... 14 Xn.ppo. Alpha (16) G Nott ...................... 0 Clay ...................... 2 Tompkins ................. 4 'I'Vilson .. , . , , • , , .. , . , . , .. , , :2 :MeMil!en ............ , ...... {) 'l'rumbull .................. 0 Total ........ , .. , . , . , .... 8 Pili Gatnma Deltn (12) (l Wilson .................... 1 Robert .................... 2 Shugg .............. , .... ,, 0 Bullard .. . .. • .. • .. • . .. .. .. 1 Sands ..................... 0 Keens• ......... , ..... , ..... 2 Totals ..... ,, , ........... 6 28 p 0 4 8 4 0 0 16 p 2 4 0 2 0 4 16 Unity-Nobbs Shirtmakers - Haberdashers TUX SHIRTS .. $2.95 ADAM HATS .. $2.95 Gus Keefe Harold Merritt 104 B,way 2 doors from State Union G F p Po<ll>ielski, lf , , . , , • , .. , ... , 1 0 2 Milano, rf .. .. .. .. . .. . .. . .. 5 4 H Gri<nvol<l .. , .. , . .. . .. • .. . . . 2 1 5 G. Smith, c .............. 6 0 12 Pri znn r, lg .. . .. .. .. . .. .. . 1 0 2 V. Smith ................. 1 0 2 Waldron, rg .. .. . .. . .. .. . . 1 1 3 Total .................... 17 6 40 ltocltester G F p Spies, lf ........ _ . . . . . . . . . 3 2 8 Mason, rf ... _ .. _ .. • . .. .. . 2 0 4 Brinker, c ... _ .. _ .. . . .. .. . 2 0 4 Shaeffer ..... _.. • .. . . . . .. . 0 2 2 Malibnr~ki, lg _, .. , .. , , .. , . 4 1 , Babcock ................... 0 0 0 Anrlerson, rg ................ 3 2 R Total .................... 14 7 35 Personnl fouls <:ommitted: Milano 3 Priznat• 3, l'n~lbielski 2, G. Smith 2' V. Smith 1, Mal iborski 4, Drinl;er 2: AnderRon 1. l/I:agon 1, Bahrodt 1. Ref- eree--I>owli.ng. Umpire--CaRsidy. lntenst~d ilz Sclmu:ctad.y ltzterested i11 UNION Maurice B. Graubart Tlze J.ay Street Jerweler 166JAY STREET Watch a~d Jewelry Repairing LJ Specialty CAS RICHT STOP AT THE ESSO STAT ION Corner-JAY and UN JC>N We Specialize in Lubric<ltion. Tires and General Sery-ice All but two of the Union subs scored at least one point, Summary: l\niott G Po<lbielslti, If .•. , ...... , • , 5 Br,m dow .... , ............. 1 :\lilat1o, lf ................ 4 BTu'''\ ....... , ... , . , , .... , () n. Hmith. c .............. 7 Waldron. ig .............. 1 ~r!::->\'Vold •••• , , • , ••• , ... , ••• 1 I nznar, rg ........... , . . . 0 \\ Smith ................. 1 Doyle ..................... 0 Duchscherer ........... , . . . 0 ·rotttl .................... 20 Yennont a Youug. If ................. 2 F 4 0 2 1 4 3 0 1 0 0 0 p H 2 10 1 18 5 2 1 2 0 0 5:i p 6 Agent For Elgin, Hamilton, Waltham and Swiss Watches 309 STATE STREET Van Dyke ...•.••..•..... o Tumas;:;etti, rf ............. 1 I~.ied •...••...••..•..•. , •. , •J 15 I' 2 1 2 0 0 1 u 0 1 0 7 1 4- 4 Dur'lf'an, c ....•• , . • . . . . . • • . 1 Lit\ky ..................... 1 Shaw. Ig .......... , .. , ... , 1 CrandtLII ........ , . . . . . . . . . . 0 l 1 arl<er, rg ................ 1 lln~s •.....•. , •..•••.•..... 1 2 3 ., 0 3 2 Total .................... 10 27 lteferee-Cassiuy. JAMES E. DAY, Optician Prescriptions Filled or Duplicated General Repair Work (W4 Union St., Cor. Barrett St. :! Blocks Below College Gate PHONE 2-3464 ( Please Mention fhe Concorcly When Making Purchases from Our Advertisers SKATES SHARPENED On our new \Right Way\ Nester Johnson Machine FACTORY JOB ......... 19c PAIR We sharpen them to please- Flat Edge or Hollow Ground THE HUB 137 State St. Phone 4-7816 Winter Sports Headqua.rters , HOW ABOUT THAT Christmas Card for THE GIRL FRIEND MOTHER SISTER ? ? ? See the Large Selection at The Photo Lab I oO JAY STREET XMAS GIFT PROBLEMS EASILY SOLVED HERE Come in and Look Around Large Val'iety of New Pi pes In All Shapes and Sizes Also Your Favorite Tobacco JACOBS DRUG STORE Cor. Nott and Carrie Sts. I. J. Linsey, Prop. Union •22

Four THE CO~CORDIENSIS, ~UESDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1935 Juniors Pick Eight Text of Curricula Committeemen For Revisions iR Full A.anu.al Promenade Social Studies Marsella, Sloatman, Conve1·se, Everest, Gatchell, &rC)wn, Philips, Clinton :Named On recommendation of the Divi- sion of Social Studies the following change in the course designated S. S. 38 (Corporate Organization of Soctety) was approved: Prominent in Activities F()otball Men, Student Council lVIembers, and Musicians Included in G l'C)l!P 'I' he pi eparat10ns for· the biggest socml ev<>nt of the year. the- Junior ?rorn w1ll hPgin immPdiAtPly after the Chr 1\tmas vacations E1ght Juniors, all of them flate!llity men except one, were elected to the Junwr Prom Comnuttee by the class of 1937 in daily assembly Sat· utday. There wet e 21 nonunees. '!he men dccted Ule Et I!l'\'t C BIO'\\n of .Mayfteid, Lawt ence Clmtun of Twy, F1ankiyn Con· \·crse of Mechanicvtlle, Robext Evetest of Glovenville, Ftank Gat· chell of Baltimore, 11U.., John ~iat­ sella of Schenectady, Ft ank Phil· lips, Jr, of SchenectadJ, and John Sloatman of Norwood, Pa. Complete chatge of the Junior Prom 1s vested m the hands of the committeemen, who choose the or- che,;tta and are responsible fot decorating the gym. A.mong the numerou,; celeb11ties that have been btought to the can1.pus by p1evious Ptom Committees axe Ozzie Nel,;on, Dorsey Brothers, Fletcher Hendex son, and Willard Alexander. E!mest Brown, co-captain of the 1:936 football team, has been out· standing in Union College athle· tics since he was a freshman. He earned his letter on the varsity baseball team last spring, and has been one of the leading players on the football eleven for the past two seasons. He is affiliated with the Beta Theta P1 fi atetni ty, and rs a graduate of the Gloversville High School. Laurence Clinton, graduate of the Troy Countty Day School, 1s affiliated wrlh the Phi Delt& Theta ftaternity. Franklyn Converse, the only neutral on the Pron1 Commit- tee, is a graduate of the Mechanic- ville High School. Robe1t Everest, another Glovers- ville H1gh graduate, has been a rnernber of the student council since sophomore dif?Ciplme commit- tee days. He was a member of the CJO::;s-countty team thb fall, and IS affiltated with Delta Upsilon. !<-rank Gatchell, one of the beot >5Inget::; in the glee club and chou·, has been a member of the football team smce hts sophontol e year, earmng Ius letter fot· two seasons on the line He 1s also a member of the student council, and of the Psi Upsilon fraterni!)'. He was gtaduated from the McDonough School, Baltimore, Md. John Mat sella, aU a man on the varsity lacrosse team last spring, is affiliated With the .Alpha Ph1 Delta fraternity. He was graduated from the Mont Pleasant High School. Fxank Phillips, Jr., an honored rnernber of the band and a mem- be!\ of the Delta Phr fraternity, was graduated from the Nott Terrace High School. John Sloatman, lette1man on the varsity football team for the past two years, has served m various capacities on the student council. In his sophomore year he was on the disciplinary committee, and at the mme time was sec1etar y of the student body. He played lacrosse in his freshman term, IS a graduate of the Glen-Nor High School, Nor· wood, Pa., and is affiliated with the Chi Psi fraternity. ----0--- Any Diffel'enee? University of Kentucky students were recently lectured on \How to Tell a College Man from the Birds and Fishes.\ CALENDAB Tonight 7 30 p m.- German Club Meet- ing, Srlltman Hall 3. 00 p. m. Chemtcai Society l\leetin~. Chemt~try Labora- tot·y. Speaker, Dr F. 0. Rice, Johns Hopkms University. Subject: \The Chemistry of the Aliphatic Free Radicals\ TomOI'I'O\V !() .00 a. m- Daily Assembly, the Band. 3 30 p m Gl€'e Club Rehearsal, Hanna Hall. g 00 p m BnskPtb<~ll, Union vs St. LawrPnc€' at Schenectady, Alumni Gymnasium. Thut'Sday 10 00 a. m.-Daily Assembly. Speaker, Dr. Dixon R.yan Fox. Friday 10:00 a. m.-Da1ly Assembly, Union College Choir. Basketball, Union vs. Columbia at New York City. .H:oliday Recess begins at Noon <Jn Friday, December 20, until :Monday, January 6. S. S. 38: Accounting. Three hours weekly throughout the year. Given in alternate years. Not g1ven in 1936-37. S. S. 40: Corporate Finance. Three hours weekly throughout th.e year. Given in alternate years. G-iven in 1936-37. This change r-eplaces a course given each year with two courses given in alternate years. On recommendation of the Divi- sion of Social Studies the following course was approved to replace the course designated S. S. 46 <Political Parties and Public Opinion) : S. S. 56: Seminar. An intensive study of some particular aspects of social institutions. Three hours weekly throughout the year. The following program of courses m Engilsh 1 ecommended by the Division of Language and Litera- ture was approved. English Revisions English 1: French course, with emphasis on composition. After eight weeks examples of modern literatUie will be introduced into the class program, but practice in composition will continue through- out the year. English 10: Introduction to Eng- lish Literature. In successive quar- ters of eight weeks each attention is focussed upon a few outstanding figures in each of the following four peri<Jds in English Literature: Mediaeval and Elizabethan with an mtroduction to Chaucer and Shake- speare; Puritanism and the Restor- atiOn, \With an introduction to Mil- ton, Bunyan, and Pepys; the cen- tury of Pope, Johnson, Gibbon, Burke; the century of Romanticism and the Victorians. Elective Courses to be given an- nually: • English 20: American and Con- temporary :Literature. For seniors only. English ~8: Advance Composition. Open to juniors and seniors. To be given in even years: English 21: Chaucer and Milton. Prerequisite: English 10 or Com- parative Literature. E11glish 22: The Romantic Period. Prerequisite: English 10 or Com- parative Literature. English 23: The Novel and the Drama. O:pen to juniovs and sen- iors, and to sophomores with per- mission of the dean. To be given in odd years: English 2<l: The Eighteenth Cen- tury. Prerequisite: English 10 or Comparative Literature. English 25: The Victorian Era. Prerequistte: English 10 or Com- parative Literature. English 26: Shakespeare. Open to juniors and seniors. All the above courses in English under the heading \Elective Cour,;es\ are upper-cla:o::; courses. Three hours weekly throughout the year. Divisional Coul'se On reco:rnmendation of the Divi .. sion of Language and Literature the following course was approved to replace Greek 13 (History of Greek Literature from Homer to Theocritus): Comparative Literature. A course designed t.o give the student a gen- eral background of world literature, studied un the comparative basis. Various types of literature will be examined, their relations with one another studied, and their influence on the modern world indicated. An effort will be made to include in some fashion every important variety of literary expression from the beginnings down to the present. Offered in alternate years. Open to juniors and seniors and to sopho- mores with permission of the Dean. Three hours weekly throughout the year. Modern Languages The followmg program of courses in modern languages recommended by the Division of Language and Literature was approved. French 1: Elementary French. The aim is reading, but students are drilled in pronunciation and in understanding of simple spoken French. Consideraple attention is paid to idiom drill. An elementary book, folowed by graded texts. Out- side reading. French 2: Second year French. Reading of carefully graded texts, supplemented by a thorough gram- matical review, based on a r.eview grammar. Outside reading, some of which may be chosen from the stu- dent's major field. Continued prac- tice in the spoken language. French 10: Introduction to French Literature. This course aims to introduce students to the literature of the seventeenth and etghteenth centuries. Eight plays a;nd supplementary prose material correlated by an mtroductory sur- vey based upon a simple manual. Outside reading, reports, term pa- pers. French 20: French Literature of the Nineteenth Century. A study of the Romantic, Realistic and Na- turalistic movements with wide reading. The method will be by dis- cussion and report rather than through lectures. French 2l.a, 2lb: History of French Literature from earltest times to the present. This course will be given in a two-year cycle, though in case of necessity either half of the cycle may be repeated. This course offers advanced stu- dents an opportunity to do inten· sive work in French literary his- tory. The treatment will be typo- logical rather than chronological, though a chronological outline will be maintained. Lectures, reports, term papers. Reading of more dif- ficult texts and works of criticism. Either semester of the course may be taken for credit. Three hours weeltly throughout the year. German German 1: Elementary German. The aim is readmg, but students are drilled in pronunciation and in understanding simple spoken Ger- man. Attention is paid to word-for- mation and word-analysis. An ele· mentary book, followed by graded texts. Outside reading. German 2: Second year German. Reading of carefully graded texts, supplemented by a. thorough gram- matic;ai review, based on a review of g1·ammar. Outside reading, some of wmich may be based on the stu- dent's. maJor fteld. Continued prac- tice In hearing and speaking simple Gemutn. Gor-man 10: Nineteenth Century Pr<Jse>. A large amount of more dif- ficllit prose 1s read. The purpose is not Jmerely to facilitate reading abilit:::y, but to introduce to the stu- dent some of the masters of Ger- man prose style. The tre~tn:;e?-t is by tlli.e discussion of the md1v1dual wotit .. translation is avoided and cultural backgrounds are empha- sized. Reports, term papers, and outs1de reading. German 20: Introduction to the Classics. The principal dramas of Lessi:ng, G-oethe, and Schiller are read and discussed in class. Some at ten. t1on is paid to the other liter- ary ntonuments of the period and to Hoetder. The lecture method is not wux :oued. Outside reading, re- polts, ter mpapers. The movement rs tteated as a unit, but the stress ts 011 the individual work, rather than on the general literary devel- opment of the period. (lPII'ntan 21a, 2lb: History of Ger- man Literature from the earliest Urnes to the present. Open to ad- vanced students who wish an inten- sive training in literary history. The \treatment is typological, but a chronological outline is mamtamed. In general the courses will be glVen 1n alternate years, but either half may be repeated if circumstances 1equLre. Section a treats the ma- terial frorn the earliest times throtolgh Romanticism; section b from Romanticism to the present. Lectures. outside reading, discus- sions, reports, term papers. Either semester of the course may be taken for credit. Three hours weekly. (}e:a·man 5: Required of students who are candidates for the degree of B. S. in Chemistry or B. S. in Physics. The aim is reading, gram- tilal is reduced to an outline. Stu- dents are expected to attend the sections for which their tt aining fits them. One hour weekly throughout the year. Dr. Fox Announces Spencer Lecturers (Continued from Page 1) classmate of President Franklin D. Roosevelt. Upon leaving college, as Mr. Stowe expresses it, \I came to New York to seek :my fmtune equipped with a Harvard educa- tion, fifty dollars and a head cold. I soon got rid of the head cold and the fifty dollars, but the Harva1d education took longer.\ After that Mr. Stowe was an as- sistant editor of a magazine, a free ,lance writer and lecturer, and the holder of a public service position with both the City and State of New York. He finally became man- aging editor of the book depart- ment of Doubleday, Page .& Com- pany, resigning from this position m 1930 to devote his time to lec- t u1 ing and writing; he has in the past few years written five books, and contributed scores of articles to the better newspapers and mag- azines. All lectures on the Spencer Foun- datiOn axe open wit bout c barge to the public. In addition to the two public lectures by Count Sfroza, the Italian diplomat will spend about ten days on the Union Campus, con- feu ing with the faculty and stu- dents of the Social Studies Division. The Worlds Best Socks Silks. Wools, Mixtures 35c: up PATTON & HALL 245 STATE STREET Good Shoes and Socks They do say they're milder and taste better_ and I've heard tell they satisfy Vol. LIX.,: PlayP Cours Dr an: Foote Ada To Pia Publj Problem. Of Intell Po The fl!st by a memb d.uction cou lie showin: Theater a the com~e clramatiz::tti '36, of Edw last poem, atic adapl Flower Th: Director totructor in tion of th by a Cone< The Flo' a play tha1 nary sitm finu thems world,\ an The play ual deman there ie n from a p view. The sis of tru tained by prehendin Ac The pie signed to problem author v marked 1 well as b: the exper duction c The gre \Flower urama, VI a poem, ations, tl acters d< by the r• in three and mo' release from the ation an more p veyed in On th lines rna same at reading emphasi understl ment of the line slowly If in ac play pl Mr. Fo< ence ae reader, perimel Stu~ s Stowe Aff Tl Av the st yester view noted Spenc the n great than -in AS the< was who abou from clare by audi are M mor on the nin~ Spe1 spee on

