ill in Suppetrt Roosevelt Club Fon:ned: Vol. LX., No. 4 • trnsts UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1936 ~~- ----- -- -~-----=-==-=-=--=-~----- -- House Stewards J\Ieet Tonig-ht PRICE FIVE CENTS Placement Bureau • Finds 92 ·Per Cent · Of 1936 Class Jobs · 'Cam.··PUS s.e .. ntiment A. 'W: H.'sGhostHauntin¥'Campai~ Inv·ades Campu~s F Ad . t• . . f S~uth College Do r m s ? · · 0 .a.~ . . avors op ton o · c to s t A. bath tub in the middle of one~· As Roosevelt Gro~ up Forms . oopera IVe ys em clothe~ p!C~~ 1:5 something vety un- . ' . . . . - usual, and probably part of some Dil·ector Wyatt Reports 134 Are Employed or Engaged In Graduate Work Bureau Newly Organized Interviews, Lectures~ Faculty Aid Were Employed to Se· cure Astonishing Results Although organized only last De- cember, the Union College Place- ment Bureau repol.'ted an extra- ordinarily su<:cessful first year. In his ;umual report to President Dix- on Ryan Fox. today, Frederick A. Wyatt, director• of the bureau, _an- nounced that 134 of the 144 semors graduated last JW!e, more than 93 per cent, have been placed in jobs, or are pun;ulng graduate work. The Bureau solved the problem of conducting an intensive promo- tional program by placing every member of the faculty on Its staff in an ex-officio capacity and coor- dinating their collective contacts. By means of pamphlets on qual- ifications and opportunities oftered by various careers in business, in the professions, and in public ser- vice, augmented by .personal con- ferences and lectures to the senior class, Mr. Wyatt developed \ a job consciousness\ among the seniors. They weve directed in examining themselves criticaJly and aiding the Placement Bureau to place them more aptly. &ecords Studied Through his work as as·sistant to the Chairman of Admissions, and Alumni Secretary, Mr. Wyatt has intimate knowledge of each student from entrance to gradua- tion, and his post-graduate record. A careful record is maintained of each student's scholastic and ex- tra-curricular career and record is also made of his professor's ap- praisal of his character and abil- ity. Last June's seniors were placed in teaching positions in prepara- tory schools and colleges; aided in obtaining scholarships, fellowships, teaching and research assistance- ships in colleges and universities; and in obtaining positions in the rail, bus and air transportation fields, in industrial plants, with fi- nancial houses, in public utilities, merchandising houses, in advertis- ing, journalistic and publishing houses, in public service ( munici- pal, state and national). A canvass was also made of the employment of alumni in classes since 1905. Only nineteen of the 5,504 alumni reported themselves as unemployed. Forty-six others sought the aid of the Placement Bureau in finding \something bet- ter,\ of these )welve were helped to find more congenial work. Beginning Monday, each senim in college will be interviewed by the Placement Bureau to ascertain his plans for work after graduation. The Placement Bureau will then at- tempt 'to locate such positions among the more than 350 firms on its active list of employers. Then arrangements will be made to bring (Continued on Page 4) . Poll Reveals Varied Opinions Majority Approving Plan, Several Dissenting architects oesign;:;. But a bath tub in tne U11dd1c u1 a dormitory room 1::; oo·me.thing extremely unu~ual, and DIO·st ce1tainly part of some Pl'a.cHcal jolmr\::; \Ol' JOke!:;' J destgn. Nine I.Tpperclassmen Organize Nucleus of Club Support Democratic Candidate; Will Probably Work f'or Dr. Cummins to Passeng·er Objects Says Opemting Cost Would Eliminate Benefits In A.t least that was the conclusion· rettched by hal! of the south sec- tiOn r -e:>idents ot South College this weelt when a bath tub of consider- able antrywty had been removed nom the closet of Arnold Riley liv- ing in the 1 ookery and had been ::mucptitwusly placed m the center ot S. Ra.tph Cohen s room on the The Pt·esidential campaign had its first repercussions at Union College this 111.0l\lling when nine upperclassmen an- nounced the fo1111ation het··e of a \Roosevelt for Re-Election\ Clul.J after a meeting last night. -·~---4 The ghostly is::;ues of the Civil Dr. Edward Ellery-- Reducing Expenses thir·d floor. Coh€n was lodged for the night The possibility of Union College with the icy-culd tuu allc1 tunung fraternities adopting a consumers' up .h;:; shin;:; against the steel-porce- cooperative organization mainly for . 1a1n. roJceptacLe. Although su;:;picion . the purchase of foodstuffs has elici- has fallen most ::;evere1y on H. A. ted a variety of opinions from fra- l!.lnzer and C. Loui::; Witham, South · ternity men and independents on College sages point uut ghoulishly the campus in the past three days. that Cohen':; room was once the Faculty Welcomed As a \Strange Lot'~ Dr. Johnson Speaks at Dinner Honoring 8 New Member-:s in Hale House The majority of fraternity coun- torture chamber of A. W. Hepner. Dr. Edward Ellery, chairman of. cils seem to be overwhelmingly in ~-- ~--o---- the faculty, will preach the sermon favor of the cooperative movement in the Chapel services Slmday in as a mean:;; of bringing about 1 e- the second service of this year's duction in food prices but a num- series. He has arranged with D1·. ber of objections has also been re- Elmer A.. Tidmarsh foi' a special corded in a recent polling by The program of music by the choir. Dr. Concordiensis. Tidmarsh will play Bach's \A.I·ia Although there is a general igno- from the Suite in D Major\ and the ranee of the details of the specific choir will sing \God Be in My program to be considered by the Head\ by Davies, and Roberts' student council and the house \Seek Ye the Lord\. stewards in tonight's meeting, To Reorganize ASU Next Week Skidmo1:e Will Hold Meetings With Un.ion's Cha}Jter, Paffrath Announces The Union College chapter of the American Student Union is plan- ning a large schedule of events for its second sea.son, Leslie Paffrath, '38, secretary, announced yesterday. An organization meeting of the ASU charter members has been called for next Wednesday night. As a group that was closely asso- ciated with a variety of the liberal elements in the life of college un- de!'graduates in this country, the organization of the ASU at Union last year aroused quite a furor in the Hearst press and in the reac- tionary class on the college campus and in ti:J.e city. many students have just learned about the fundamentals of coopera- tive buying as it has been organ- ized for several centuries in Swed- ne, England, and Denmark and for almost half a century in this coun- try. A principal question brought up by fraternity leaders in the inquiry was whether a campus cooperative could provide the same quality of food to which each individual or- ganization has been accustomed. A few of the most particular ob- jections to a cooperative system was voiced by Richard Passenger, · 37, steward of Chi Psi Lodge, who said that his frate1 nity was satis- fied under its present system. The cost of operating the co-op and the need for the centralization of re- sponsibility were factors, he said, which, at first hand, make the co- operative seem rather impracti- cable. Thomas A. McCullough, '37, head of the Delta Chi fraternity, said that in general his fraternity was in favor of the cooperative, and at least would be willing to try it. Robert D. Everest, president of the student council, who will meet with the fraternity heads tonight <Continued on Page 4) ---0--- Couneil ·Considers Revival of Scraps Fav()l's Frosh -Sophomore .Hgh ts as Means of Re- storing Class Spirit Wednf'sday, s~pt. 30.-Eigh.t new faculty members: and their wives received a formal welcome at a din- net given in their honor at 7 :3() to- night by the faculty in Hale House. President Dixon Ryan Fox intro- duced the newcomers to the faculty just after the meal had been con- cluded. Tbose o-fficially welcomed were: Dr. and Mrs. Harold Blod- gett, Dr. and Mrs. Gordon R, Silber, Dr. and Mrs. William R. Richard- son, Dr. and Mrs. Edward A_ Am- Wednesday, Sept. 30-The possi- :;;tutz, Dr. Elmer K. Kilmer, .Mr. bility of reviving the freshman- Frank M:anheim, Mr. and Mrs. sophomore class scraps which were Helmer Lewis Webb, Mr. Walter J. thrown into discard by the student Nelson, and Mrs. Douglas Camp- body under Ralph Semerad re- bell. cei:ved major consideration at the Following the introductions, the meeting of the Student Council to- gue:>l.ti of honor were greeted and night. ·•counseled\ by Dr, Burges Johnson, Altlwugh the general tendre of who himself was a newcomer a the campus discussion was against yeai' ago. \Propinquity said Dr. having a class football game or a Johnson, \is a rate. magic. I doubt paint fight because of the physical that there can be gotten together a dange:t' involved, the coruoensus fa- stranger lot of human beings than vored the return of the fights in the men on a college faculty It is order to restore class spirit. only as we come to know them as A committee of two, Winterton friends that we forget the stra.nge U. Da::y ·as and John K. Sloatman outward appearance. A specialist '37, IVas appointed by President nlUst ceme to be a man who has a Robert D: Everest to investigate certain amount of abnormality the possibility of a sophomore about him. The only thing to over- soil·ee at the same time with the come the tendency of a specialty to Thank\llgiving vacation. The annual distort the mind as well as the SoP\homore Hop was discontinued physiognomy i:;; the opportunity to in recent years by the student body ~xchange thoughts with men of in preference to the four-day .Jther fields. I urge upon these new- Thanksgiving recess. comers that they give propinquity No Class Officers a chance.\ T\lle Student Council went on re- Rig Little Colleges C<>rd as not favoring the return of \What is the advantage of a class officers, but recommended small college over a large college?\ that tlle rept·esentatives <>f each of Dr. Edward Ellery, chairman of the the four classes in the Council au- faculty, asked the gathering. \We tom.atically fulfill the function of ought to stop talking about big col- officers. The student nceiving the leges and little colleges and talk greatest number of votes in the a'bout true colleges. A true college elec:tion to the council would act is one where conditions are planned as chairmen. and p1·ovided for the maturation After considerable opposition from the students here the chapte>r proved its strength in su~cessfully organizing a peace strike in the middle of April which attracted half of the student body and nu- merous bombs, anti-peace demon- strations, and virulent attacks by a group of self-named defenders of the red blood of America. The ASU will hold its first mem- bership meeting sometime after the organization. Paffrath said ye~ter­ day. The flrst program being planned is a joint meeting with Skidmore. Last year with the Sara- toga group attracted a large audi- ence at the free-for-all discussion of \Marital Relations.\ F'rank Gatchell and David Mille!' and ex:pression of the exceptional wer:-e. named to a committee for mind.\ The number is small, but Prom and Moving-Un Day . cho<lslng the speaker for the an- I the way these \exceptional minds\ 1\ nua.l Block. lJ dinile1 which will i may he found, Dr. Ellery stated, Is Garis Announces New Test Rules The national program of the ASU with peace, tolerance, and libet al education as its three main planks in the platform, will remain the same until the next meeting in December. Dates Are Also Changed; take place m March. • to urge and compel student self- New uniforms for the college i mental activity.\' Chapel Bolts Increased band were advocated at the meet-1 Dr. Willis R. Whitney of the ing, Richard Snyder '37, chairman j Board of Trustees, sound~d a call A change in the Union College calendar which affects Junior Prom, Moving Up Day exercises and the Daily Assembly programs was announced today by Dean Charles F. F. Garis. of the student tax committee, stat-, for specialization. Because we can- i<lg that if the band functioned reg-, not <:ove~· every bit of knowledge, ularly throughout the year appro-! he said, we must choose some spe- prlatlon for the uniforms could be : CialtY and learn all we can about made. ' that. Benjamin Rathbun \39 and Win-· \The college is vitally aware o-f terton Day were appointed to the what is going on outside,\ Dr. Bar- college discipline committee. (Continued on Page 4) War· and the fatal philosophy of Hoover must remain forever bur- ied,\ they declared in a statement this mm·ning. \It is our conviction that the future of our democracy depends upon President Roosevelt's enlightened liberalism.\ The founders of the club, William W. Mulvey, Guy A. Graves, Jr., Burns Barford, Jr., Alfred Seigle, S. Ralph Cohen, Clark Cummings, Charles B. Honikel, Robert H. Fer- guson and Charles H. Reeves, plan to take active part in tr.c loca: cam· paign. The first O·pen meeting of the cluQ., to which all interested students and faculty members are invited, will be in Silliman Hall Monday night at 7:30 o'clock. In the meanwhile, the organizers will meet tomorrow af- ternoon with Mathias P. Poersch, Jr., Democratic County Chairman, to discuss ways and means of con- ducting an active campaign for the re-election of President Franklin D. Roosevelt. Mostly S.S. Students Almost all of the students con- cerned in the new club are regis- tered in the social studies division of the college, while two of the men are majoring in the division of lan- guage and literature. The complete statement issued this morning by the Club follows. \The Roosevelt- for- Re-election Club is a progressive body of active students who have agreed to unite in aggressive support of the prin- ciples and policies of President Roosevelt. \It is our conviction that the fu- ture of democracy depends upon his enlightened liberalism. The forces of reaction, clamorin.g for the re- turn of economic royalism, must be repulsed. \The ghostly issues of the Civil War and the fatal philosophy of the Hoover regime must remain forever buried. \To advance the cause of Presi- dent Roosevelt's re-election, we have adopted the following pro- gram: \To distribute New Deal propa- ganda. \To arouse campaign opinion through personal contacts and through the press. Open Forums Planned \To conduct open forums to dis- cuss the issues of the campaign. \To revive the old-fashioned polit- ical rally.\ Thirteen Hundred Scouts Meet Here Tonight for Outdoor Demonstration The Junior Weekend vacation will begin at noon, Friday, May 14 and continue through all day Sat- urliay, May 15, Moving Up Day exercises have been shifted from May 14 to Fri- day, May 28. Classes will be sus- pended during the entire morning of this day, but will be resumed in the afternoon. FtJllJ\teenth Award of Berg Trophy, First of Garis Cup Occur Next Week Union College students have in the last few years taken an increas- ingly active interest in politics, working in both local and national campaigns. The Social Problems Forum, now dormant, worked for the Plection of Dr. Earl E. Cum- mins to the Schenectady City Coun- cil on the Charter League Ticket last year, and other campus organi- zations have been active on one side or another. The American Labor Party is also arousing interest on the C'ampus, with several students working as active members of the party_ Sirens shrieked and search lights shot their beams over a field of havoc last night in pt•eparation for the Schenectady Boy Scout Circus tonight, when 1300 scouts from sixty troops will gather on Alexander Field to exhibit the sklils which they have learlled in first aid, pio- neering, the outdoors communica- tion, and ()!'ganized g-ames. Over two hundred advancements will be recognized, including the awarding of seven eagle badges, the highest rank in scouting, by E. 0. Shreve, vice-president of the Gen- eral Electric Company. \The whole objective of the cir<:us is to make parents as well as the general public see the whole range of scouting;\ explained Scout Exec- utive Arthur F. Bal..:er, In an inter- view last night. \A grand finale will be staged in costumes, representing the youth of today as the Llncolns, Washitigotns, and Lindbergs of to- morrow.\ Alumni Field will ·be converted into a scene of wreckage similar to actual scenes in the recent Florida hurric-anes, when scouts actually set up first aid station<S, cared for the nijured, and cut live wires, all of which will be portrayed beneath bursting 'bombs, rays of powerful search lgihts, and shrieking sirens. Mr. Shreve is general chairman of the Circus, assisted by F. B. Bradley ,and Colonel \Jim\ Healey will act a.s official commenttor, speaking over a special amplifying system whi-ch has been set up for the occasion. Two thirty-foot towet·s have been . erected at opposite ends of the field, betwee11 which messages will be signaled, by means of fiags in semaphore and Morse codes. Pio- neers have erected lean-tos, con- structed Oif rplne boughs, antd a \live\ wire equipped with sparklers will be cut by the boys In the way they have been taught. \We are greatly indebted to Union College for the use of their field,\ concluded Mr. Baker. Daily Assembly programs will end with Moving Up Day exercises, as in the past. But because of the additional days added to the sched- ule as a result of the postponement of Moving Up Day, students will be permitted 50 absence counts each semester instead of 45, the number of counts permitted until now, Dean Garis said. Dean Gal\is also announced that make-up tests will be given only four times during the college year. They will tak eplaee on November 9, January 18, April 12, and on May 24. Students who wish to talte any of these tests must register for such· tests at the Dean's office at least one week in advance of the dates set. A student must obtain the writ-. ten permission of his Instructor to talte a make-up test. A form for this purpose should be obtained from the Dean's Office. Whether Kappa Nu will talte 11921 through 1927, thereby gaining possession of the Berg CUp by win- possession of three Berg Cups. Phi ning it for the third successvie time Sigma Delta was the last to win will b-e re:vea,led Saturday, October permanent .possession of the cup, 10, in Daily Assembly when schol- in 1932. Last year Kappa Nu won arship averages and winners of the the trophy with an average schol- Ber-g Cup and new Garis Cup will arship rating of 8.922. Delta Upsilon be announced. was second with an average of The Berg Cup, given by Dr. Er- 8.022. nest J. Breg, co-chairman of the The Garis Cup, donated by Dean engineering division, is awarded Charles F'. F. Garis, will be awarded yearly to the fraternity whi<:h for the first time this year. It will mai'utains the highest scholastic be given to the dormitory which has average during the preceding year. the highest scholarship average For- Lhe past two years the cup has I during the past year according to been ·won by Kappa Nu fraternity, the sa.rne rules which govern the which will have permanent posses- award of the Berg trophy. Only sion of the trophy if they have the North and South Colleges will be hlg·hest average this year. This will eligible for this cup as the Old Gym be the fourteenth year that the cup Dorm was not in the competion last has been awarded. The first frater- year. nlty to take permanent possession Last year the scholastic average of the cup by winning it three sue- of the whole student body was cesslve times was Delta Phi. The 7.362 as compared with the winner's best :record is that of Delta Chi, average of 8.922. The average for then .Alpha Gamma Phi, which won the 2Z fraternities was 7.244 and the cup ten successive times from that of the inde·pendents 7.509, The new political club will prob- ably also campaign for the election of Dr. Cummins to Congress on the Democratic ticket this year. ---0--- Union Students Included In Labm· Party Rolls The American Labor Party, re- cently organized in New York State from a coalition of political groups su~h as the People's Party and the Non-Partisan Labor League, has announced a national movement to register all liberal-minded citizens to end()rse the reelection of Presi- dent Roosevelt and Governor Leh- man. Union men as well as all other college students are included in the attempt to realign the liberal ele- ments in civic and academic life against what is considered \the negative personality,\ Governor Al- fred Mossman Landon.

Two ~irnsis \11 Causa Per sa Parole t1 ssai\ FOUNDED 1877 [qJ6 Member lQ37 1=\ssocialed CoRef5iate Press Distributors of Colle5iate Di6est Sole and exclusive nation!!.! advertising representatives ::SATlU:->AL AD\'ERTISI~G SERVICE, Inc. ·120 :\ladison A venue :\ew York City .Clueagn - Boston - San Francisco · Los Angeles l'ortland · l::ieattle The official newspaper of the students of Union. College. Published Tuesdays and Fri- days throughout the college year, except dur- ing Christmas and Spring recesses. Publication Offiee, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., T:_lephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second. Class Mail Matter Subscription :price Five cents a copy i $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Senior Board Norman R. Stewart .........•.. Editor-in-Chief \'hi Psi Lodge-4-ti527 S. Ralph Cohen ............... Managing Editor 5 S. S. S. C.· -4-76Ul:i Fenton A. Gage ................... News Editor lJelta Upsilon House---l-7~:.!2 Milton D. Bedell ................•. Sports Editor Ddt>t l..:JJotlon HouMo!-4-7:•22 Donald Ford. , ............ Ch·culation Manager Chi l'st Lotlge-t-65~7 James W. Righter ........... Business Manager !leila l' psi! on Hou~e-4-79~-2 Junior Board ASSOCIATE EDITORS Carl Trahman Willard Dean Ed·ward Barry Robert Doig Hyman Enzer Henry Hartmann Robert Ferguson Melvin Muroff Sophomore Boa1·d Assistant Editors M. Depp, F. Hequembourg, P. Humphrey, F. Saidel, D. Taft, R. Walter, R. Morgan, D. Mil- ler, J. O'Brien, B. Rathbun, J. Smith. Issue Editors THE CONCORDIE~SIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBEa 2, 193~------ new plan will receive its first trial. Unde1· the official guidance of the Union College Administration the plan could set sail, at least, and then its progress would depend on the quality of its timber a11d sailors. We hasten to endorse heartily a frater- nity consumer's cooperative movement, and hope that every fraternity will leap at this . g·olden opportunity. To l\Ir. Cease who graciously offered his personal cooperation we, as the official organ of Union's public opinion, wish to extend Union College's app1·eciation of his genel\- osity. THE PLACEMENT BUREAU The Placement Bureau which mds stu- dents to locate jobs set an enviable record last year in placing- 93 per cent of the senior class who applied to the Bureau, in positions. Mr. Frederick A. Wyatt organized the body and it is largely due to his efforts that its results have been so productive. \! A.m the VeTy M.od'el-\ CINEMA By JOHN B. DOWLING The Road to Glory <Twentieth Century~Fox.; Howard Hawks, di- rector· Prcotor's) has the distinc- · --....._ tion df being the fil'st major stu- f' .iJIII!I . ·~ or a.t least usd to. Spea..ks in an .oracular fashion, fidgets when some one else talks, slwnps when he dis- apl>roves, Intitn.ately Irnown as Dixie, the Prex, the G1•eat White · ·Father-\\Sir\ to y<m. Y.E. II BOOKS II ll.Xiploit the war theme in many a :. diu production. of any merit to '\L moon. That styles in war pictures CRADLE OF LIFE, by Louis have changed as much in that Adamic; Harper & )3•rother&, 468 pp. time as they have in the general Louis Adamic, author of Cradle of cinema product, is at once appar- ~ .Life, is one of a talented group of ent. On the Sunday before be was , proletarian writers~a group of blown up in his penthouse, Andre · . which Erskine Caldwell is perhaps Sennwald of the New York Times the best lmown repr:esentative. commented on the growing tend- Drenched in Slavic lore, Slavic sym- ency of producers and directors to · pathy, Slavic expressionism; and: dwell upon macabre detaHs in pic- Slavic by ·birth, Adamic wisely tures of violence. The Road to ·writes about the ·pe:pole he knows Glory fulfills his assumption of such and loves: the peasantry of the a tendency. A wounded man hang- An oval face inevitably ending in lands which now are portions of ing on barbed wire moans, groups a. stiff collar. A too-long for-ehead ·czechoslovakia and Jugoslavia. are :blown to bits In close range !IJ!d the classic bmw. Nicely .spaced camera shots and men die with an eyes, a suspiciously bulb(}US no~e The hero of Cradle of Life is a almost callous regard from their. colored by any extreme change m fachook, or bastard, parented by comrades. weather. Caput nudum except for Crown Prince Rudolph of Austria- The story of the picture follows .a. white fringe which saves him 'Hungary and a young female ex.am- ·the inevitable theme of past war from the billiard baU stag·e. A pie of decadent nobility. For ob- iilms. It is to the credit of the script straight mouth ctuling slightly up- vious reasons the ba·by IV'as quietly writers and the close direction of Wlll'd on the right side-a b·utton- , smuggled out of the lives of its Hawlts that they escaped the pitfall ·hole smile. A firm cltin, doubled par•ents, into the care of a peasant of being hackneyed and turn out a when he tucks his •head down. Ears of Zagorye who made quite a small tight, effective job. Warner Baxter plastei·ed close to the b.ead. A long business out of the fachook trade. and Frederic March are the two ·neck. Pink complexion-cuj)id in Dora, the woman in question, and men, captain and lieutenant respec- academic dress. her husband, Yuro, are the two lively, who come to love the same finest drawn characters in the bool{. girl and end in the inevital;lle sacri- The personification of the smooth Dora is kindly to an extreme, forced ftce of one for the other. But they appl&-God's gift to the w()men~s by necessity into actions she hates. grow as characters more convin<:- idea of what a ()Ollege president Yuro is the \Economic Man\: im- ingiy than do most of the static per- should look lil•e. A smE>oth .persu.a- mensely strong, morose, with his sonalities written into motion pic- sive voice which could wheedle an scope in life limited by the next tures. You are increasingly con- endowment out of the Sphinx-and meal. The first ten years of \Ru· scious of their growth as they come the Sphinx would like it. A living dek\ 's life are s.pent with them- to like each other and reveal more testament to the E:uc;ycio]Jedia. Brit- years replete with toil. Then, natu- a.nd more of what their :back- tanica. A quotation for evet·y oc.ea- rally, outside gaencles give the child grounds and feelings are. Many of sion and the well hasn't 1•un dl·y his pro.per position in life. As he the situations are trite and June yet. When in Rome do as tile Ro- grows into a mature man Rudo Lang, the g-irl of the piece, does not tarians d{). Affable but aever folksy, ·]earns the tragic self-perpetuity of help things too much. Again the di- intimate but never personal. demi-feudalism. rection ·bridges the gap and often Dresses like a rPtired banker. This novel is far from an attack exhibits a mature suobtlety, by the Walks with head bent. hands be- on Capitalism. It merely shows that help of the editor, that places this ·hind, can run if h~ lras to. Swims feudalism existed up unul the last picture above the ordinary run of with great ease. ·wears stripes, World War, and that a hereditary war pictures. should never wear green, owns a nobility had several weak represen- Most interesting was the use in _,. 1 c some of the battle scenes of infra- .trench coat and ... 1sre~uta.b e hat, ( ontinued on Page 4) red photography. The pro·blem of lighting a night battle scene is an intricate and costly one. Since infra- red sensitive film is affected by heat rather than light rays it is possible to use very little light and still photograph. There is too much contrast with a lack of detail. Hyman A. Enzer RO'bert H. Ferguson While the idea of a college employment bureau is not unique, the success of ours is. Few colleges can 1·ival l\lr. Wyatt's achieve- ment. Union men of the class of 1936 are now represented in a wide number of indus- tries and businesses. The work they do re- flects to some extent the influence Union exerted on them as it is revealed in their character, intelligence, and appearance. For this reason students are not recommended to positions for which they have shown little aptitude, and since l\11'. Wyatt knows intim- ately the record of every student in the col- lege, from the time they enter until they de- part with their diplomas, his judgment is sound. This is a feature of college that has not been publicized thoroughly enough. If every educational institution could insure ~mplo.r­ ment after graduation to a majority of sen- iors of high schools and preparatory schools who might enroll in college, the illiteracy quotient of America would read something like that of Germany. Most students are job-conscious, and ex.pect education to pre- pare them more adequately for business. Not only will college fulfill its task of educatinO' I have intentionally avoided the question of whether The Road To Glory is pro- or anti-war. The indi- vidual will have to judge for him- tielf. There is a strong vein of bero- icti and hence a glo1 ifying of war in the picture. But just as surely the lurid detail presented argues a~ainst war. Typically Hollywood, the film is designed to avoid con- troversy and provide entertainment, which it does with a thrill. Assistants F. Hequembourg W. Dean Friday. October 2, 1936 REDUCING FOOO COSTS Cooperative uuying of food supplies among the fraternity groups was for many years a good topic for editorializing. Every administration of the Concorcliensis pre- sented arguments in its favor, some strong and well-informed and others less virile, but all full of enthusiasm. That no one adopted theh plan was not indicative of its universal appeal, but rather a case where no leader cropped up with sufficient initiative to establish it. Now that the Student Council has under- taken the leadership for its adoption let everyone support the council to this end. If not beneficial to all students, it at least will relieve the fraternities of considerable fi- nancial obligations. When large quantities of goods are guaranteed for purchase the wholesaler can :reduce his margin of p1·ofit appreciably, and still receive a good commis- slOn. In this way the cooperative buying organization can minimize food hills. As the name implies, cooperation will be the backbone of the organization. All fra- ternities who join will have to forget their frateTJlity f1·iends, not try to cater to them, and buy through the one channel. Repre- sentatives from every house will, no doubt, work with the buyer to insure their frater- nity of being served according to their policy. Th-ough the students have started this plan, and although it only affects students belonging to fraternities, the administration and Mr. Hoadley particularly, should give it official cooperation, and act to organize it soundly. Apparently, from past experience, lack of leadership has proved the main ob- stacle to its success. It is here where the 0 its students, but also it will introduce them to the world of finance with an engraved in- vitation. Two new dormitories, opened this week at SMITH now provide for the housing of 30% of the student body in the quadrangle dormitories. They are re- ported to be the latest thing in swank. * * * A fine arts colony, the first on any campus, is being opened at the UNIVERSITY OF IOWA, this year. The Carnegie Corporation made the work possible with a $200,000 grant. The colony includes a modem theatre, a music building, art studios and other fea- tures. • Rexford Guy Tugwell and Lindsay Rogers, both of whom have lectured here during the past two years, are scheduled to speak at this season's program at the NEW SCHOOL FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH. .. .. * Nicholas Murray Butler, president of COLUMBIA since 1776 B. C. regrets the falling-off in classical edu- cation in the introduction to a book by Dr. Nelson G. McRea, \Literature and Liberalism.\ He character- izes . the decline of classicism as \the most grievous happening. in the intellectual life of the present gen- eration.\ * * * On the same bill, vaudeville pre- sents The Three Stooges. They arc tops at slapstick and very funny. 'I'he other acts satisfy. JUST IN JEST Good evening, dear readers. Well, the college year is in full swing. I offer as evidence the packed bars of Tony's, Van Curler, George's, Joe's, etc. I know they are doing a swell business because-well, you know how it is, a columnist has to go everywhere and see everything. Of course, yours truly would never frequent these dens of iniquity if his job didn't require him to. Oh no:-Not much! !-Let's see, you crave dirt, right? Then, here goes. RAMBLING THOUGHTS . . . 1vonder who that swell lookin' Skid- morite with Bob Emory at the Worden Saturday night was <name, please?) ... Guy Graves was there 1vith a beautiful damsel, too. , . . and Louie Witham . . . and Jack Glennon ... everybody but me ... twelve D. U.'s Cwith dates) at Rocco's Saturday night-now thats what you call \mass production\ ... little Herbie Fox and Jim Mulcare looking lost <where was Marty Rose, Herb?) ... dear, dear Mr. Godfrey assisting AI Borden from Scribner . . . \Fuzzy\ Brent out with Bob Tiffany Saturday night and George Doyle Sunday night- w·hich is it, \Fuzzy\ old bean ... Frank Phillips at the Adelphi with Hank Clay's sister ... Casey John- son, Howie Brown's frau out with a Kappa Sig freshman . . . so much for Saratoga. Tony Sharpe Opposes Road Trips for the Mountebanks: \Let's make our mistakes In our own baclt yru:ds\ . . . Speak for yourself, Tony. SWARTHMORE has decided to reform its fresh- men vocally as well as in other ways. Each entering BENNETT CRYS FOR SYMPA- student makes a phonograph record which is then THY: \I have been accused of be- studied for speech defects. Then the public speaking ing a Socialist, a Communist-yes department goes to work on him. even a Democrat.\ Why, Professor: we thought you were a Townsend- ite. * * * President Henry T. Moore told his SKIDMORE undergraduates Saturday that the world needs people of \serene poise, wide interest and effective accom- plishment.\ He emphasized the need for an educated class to play a prominent part in keeping public opin- ion alert and effective. .. * • RUTGERS Sunday services are not confined en- tirely to clergical preaching. The schedule for this year includes such speakers as Norman Thomas Union Alumnus James- E. Finegan, Dr. Franlt p: Graves, William Lyon Phelps and others. NEWS NOT FOUND in the News Columns: That beautiful lookin' secretary in Bailey Hall is Viola Pa~ter~~n and she's hitched ... the Chi Ps1.s ar.e booming somebody for somethmg m the Senior class elec- tions ... a yellow Pierce-Arrow Cre- . ferred to in this column last week) was found parked (?) on Lenox Road last Sunday morning at an early hour by Kenny Brown The d;iver had evidently fallen ~sleep (. )-he was awakened and taken care of . . . there will be no more Philip Morris' handed out on the (Continued on Page 4) , While 17waited, ~ 37talks W!EN the class of 1917 was at college, a long distance telephone call took (on the average) more .th~n ten minutes to he put through.. Tlus time has heen whittled down gradually, so that now the connection is made in an average of 1.4 minutes-nine ont of ten of th h . 1 hold the line. em w 1 e yon ~ut this is only one phase of the relentless effort to mprove. \'!- o.ur s.e•·vice is better today because. voice tra 1 nsmisslon Is c earer-intermptions and errors less frequent than ever before. America demands fast hnt sure telephone service-and gets it. .l . ·I I Dut~ Genevan After A1 Garnet Hamp and Eligil !Rig! By BEN ])own onee ' Union runs into ni.orrow in Hob~ on the Genev~ Orange and :E .game. Since tl played on fore! Gat•net players pure are to be fut>ther weakeni mate:vial is skim Nels Nitchman, frankly pessin team's chances, that they have this week to gi· unex::pected setb! Robart has b now for two yea: tous receipt of a of freshmen; an< E. B_ <Speed) W the best team to eva institution si present decade. when they playe heralded as a ! high scoring ele, rose to supe heights, however in .a sco;eless t Hobart dominate not score. Wright · The Orange l operate from a or left. They ar use a shm-t punt those se;t to app1 lineup is :Bob W junlor back, who concussion of t year's game on Hobart won that 7-0. With Jack S Riggs definitely and Stubby Ada cause of schol. Nels Nitchman l his first elever against the fres he scrambled the eral times before best combination up with a quarte Brown, Billy Th and Jake Amaz< men Who will st they will :probab drop. Behind thE serves are negli1 Haskell being ce Nels needs any n have to start pic hat. With the excel and right tackle 1 same one whicl Middlebury. Eit care or Wally :E Riggs post; and blackhaired juni< last year, may s tackle in place < The two C's, Con will guard the Ladd, Bob Bart< Bill Potts compl eleven. Hobart For Hobart it ault and Marsh end, Ken Rich ar at tackle, Chink : Narra\vay at gua a new man at cE the obscure subs1 raised to a vars flagging the pas Garnet last year ence, the taekle! and 212 respecti scythe-like block' backing up the li As backs, Wils Bowling at qua1 who passes and 1 side and who Ayrault in last ~ and Fred King, : at the halves w. Bob Wright as t and Wright are t runners. The Garnet is hearted after l They- firmly beli to win and hope worth tomorrow. Dennett especl improved player more has all the physical accout but is handicapiJ inexperience. L: the first time h the backfield on Furthermore it bali in six years. In case anyon atbletic departm to run competiti and its ·mile 1 halves by !ntrod It seem the :Boy a circus on Ale th-ose lofty ed!fi.c 'l'he g!l,me will en th in a thirty--r Union has won s an<! tied one.

.n Le s- ts ~e ] l- d Le lo >f k tt lt y 1- THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTO~ER 2, 1936 Three Dutchmen Meet Hobart Away Tomorrow; Look For Victory Genevans P6werful After Amherst Tie Union-Hobart Lineup Less Jeering-More Cheering . Frosh Hold Varsity Joseph Milano Coaching Mohawk School Eleven Union :Qobart More Action-Less Faking To One Touchdown The Mohawk School football team will ·open its season against Lawrence Says Team Is Good the Housac School eleven of Huos· Garnet Hampered by Injuries and Eligibility; Smith, !Riggs, Out By BEN RATHBUN ])own once with seven to go,.· Union runs into a high hurdle to- morrow in Hobart when they meet on the Geneva ·campus in the · Orange and Blue!s hoiJ?-ecoming LE LT LG c RG RT RE QB LH RH FB Con troy . . . . . . . . . . Ayrault Ladd ......... _ .. -. . . . Rich Baker . . . . . . . . . . . Babcock Barton . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Potts .......... Narraway Gatchell . . . . . . . . Laurence (Angle) · Campbell ..... A.l'mstrong Brown . . . . . . . . . . . Bowling Thomas ......... , . . Miller Dennett .... , ..... , . King Amazon . . . . . . . . . . . Ferris (Wright) A serious eiement in past years, the cheering of the Union student body reached a new :fow last Saturday afternoon. The lethargy, list- lessness and lack of spontaneity which dominated the stands for most of the contest was a woeful reminder of the need of a. little spirit and cooperation between the varsity teams and their supposed supporters. The students alone are not to blame entirely for such miserable cxhibiti>Ons. The fault lies prima1·ily with the cheer leaders. If eve:r we had an enthusiastic, rip-tearing group of leaders, Sa.turda.y was the tune we could have used them. They did: coope1·ate to the extent of cheering each Union substitution and once or twice managed to stagger up and down before the stands. in a painful exhibiti>On of vivacious lawn dancing . . game. Since the .game 1s to be played on foreign soil, au. those .· Fr· 0 . sh Run,.,.· ·ers.» .. ow Gat•net players not academically Il .D Not one cheer was given to the II>Iiddlebury team-except for tlte score of visitors on the far side of the field who were heard above tlte crowded section holding the Union rooters-not one leader showed that he was in any way interested in leading a cheer! pu 1 ,e are to be left at home, thus T v • • M fUJther weakening a squad whose 0 arC!Ity Ill eet mate:vial is skimpy at full strength. t-:7 · ' · · When Vermont in.vades the campus on the 17th we hpoe to see a little more life in the stands as well as in the type of leadership we have a right to expect. A little cheering at the right moment ~oes far toward helping those eleven men to win. Nels Nitchman, the maestro, is frankly pessimistic about his team's chances, but is still hopeful that they have assimilated enough· this week to give the Deacons an unex:pected setback. . :Hobart has been on the ascent now for two years, after the fortui-. taus receipt of a high grade bunch of freshmen; and this season Coach E. B. <Speed) Wilson looks to have the best team to represent the Gen- eva institution since the turn of the present decade. Last Saturday, when they played Amherst, it was heralded as a game between two high scoring elevens. Both elevens rose to superlative defensive heights, however, the game ending in a scoreless tie. After halftime Hobad dominated the play, but did not score. Wright to Start Hawkes Leads Ilarriers to Win, Frosh Show P1·omise in Years First Time Trials II at Union made it:; formal debut II last Monday when the Touch Foot- INTRAMURAL$ ball contests were started on Alex- In the first time trials against ander and Council fields. Ten Era- any sort of competition, the va1sity '.-==============J ternities and one neutral group cross-country team showed good Five fraternity men and three have emerged with victories but form in defeating the freshman neutrals have advanced into the those who lost are not eliminated harriers Wednesday, 19% to 35 1 h. second round of the fall tennis due to the new ruling in effect this As u~ual, Captain Bill Hawkes led tournament now in progress on the year which states that a team must the pack home in the fine time of college courts. Ring, Miller, Gam- lose twice before being eliminated. 15:35, 31 seconds ahead of Joe An- mons, Helling, Bergstrom, Baxter, Thus, the final championship will nese, a sophomore who sprang a Rathbun, and c. Wiberly all dis- be decided between the winner of surprise and placed second. The posed easily of their first-round op- the losers and the winner of the next man to score was Santora, who ponents. Helling, a Neutral, was winners, one team being required is the outstanding candidate Gf the the only one extended into three to win two games. The results up freshman outfit, and whose time sets, but he rallied after Lifset, of to today and the schedule for Man- was 16:08, two seconds behind Joe. Phi Sigma Delta, had evened the day and Tuesday are printed with Following these three pa.ce set- sets at one-aU by taking the second, the hope that the fraternities will ters were Ed Wells, sopbomot·e, in 6-2, and went on to win. notice who they play and be pres- 16:17; Hoffman, a yearling, in One hundred and forty players ent on time. 16:20i Sheffer, of the varsity, in have entered the tournament and it Results 16:20i Ralph Denton, varsity, in is expected that many will have ad- Sept. 28: Kappa Sigma 12, Beta 16:23; Frank Myers, varsity, in vanced into the second and third Theta Pi 0; Chi Psi 14, Theta Delta 16:33i Melewicz and Johnson, fresh· rounds by the end of the week. Chi 12; Delta Upsilon 23, Kappa But Needs Practice . ick on Alexander Field saturda:/. The game will start at 2:30 o'clock. On Offense Mohawk i.:; being coached by Jos- \The team is good, defen::;ively, but needs plenty of practice in of- fensive tactics,\ admitted Coach Art Lawrence, freshman football mentor, when he was questioned as to the manner in which his charges were showing up. \Up to now I have been ju:;t stressing fundamen- tals more than anything becauBe without the knowledge of how to block, tackle, and buck correctly, any team would be facing a terrific disadvantage.\ Thus spoke Coach Lawrence just after his squad had come in after scrimmaging the varsity and hold- ing them to one touchdown. The freshman team showed up remark- ably well, especially in the forward- passing department, and shows promise of giving the Middlebury Frosh a tough battle nex:t week. Coach Law~ence has tilled all hi::; positions satisfactorily ex:cept the end berths, although four men are trying fm· the ends. At the tackles he has placed Kluge and Krull; the guard posts are held down by Kramer and Lynn, while Burns is at center. In the bacl!field, Sammy Hammerstrom takes up the job of managing the team from the quar- terback's post. Brockmeyer, Passe, and Patrie fill the three other back- field positions. For reserves, Law- renee has Quinlan, Rosen, and Cary in the backfield and Halavin, Kolter, and Roberts on the line. ---- ---o--- -- Floodlights Installed eph E. Milano and J. Grant King, both of whom are Union alumni. Mohawk and Hoosac School have played five games in the same number of year::;, with Mohawk winning three, losing one and tying one. Ten11is Notice Due to the inclement weather, the time for the completion of the first round of the Fall Tennis tournament has been extended and all matches in the first round must be completed by Wednesday, Octo- ber 7. Do not forfeit or your group will lose many points. Furthe1· time will not be allowed for your first round. Consequently, play at your earliest convenience. 0•--- Dartmouth College alumni con- tributed $94,500 to the college in 1936, a new record high in contri- butions during a single year. <:ET A. PICTORIAL RECORD OF (',\)! l'·l: S Sl'EXES Pictures .Printed, Developed. Delivered-24 Hour Se!'Vice Leave YOW' l'hotographs il1 Green :Box in Alcove of Sllllman Hall Community Photo Shop Sf.ntlent Representative, H. A. EnzPr · The Orange and Blue usually operate from a single wing, right or left. They are also very apt to use a short .punt formation. Among those se;t to appear in the starting lineup is Bob Wright, 166 pound junior back, who received a serious concussion of the brain in last year's game on Alexander Field. Hobart won that game incidentally 7-(). men, in 16:35, and 16:37, respec- Summaries-D. Ring, Phi Delta Alpha Oi Psi Upsilon 8, Phi Sigma tively. Theta, defeated Moulton, Delta Up- Delta 0 · l,!!IIIIIIII•BIIIIallllllllllll•lllll Although Coach Ketz does not silon, 6-2, 6-1. Miller, Phi Gamma Sept. 29 : Alpha Phi Delta 7 · The annual installation of flood- • • predict a record-breaking year, the Delta, defeated Carson, Phi Delta Theta Nu Upsilon O; Delta Phi 6 · lights on Alexander Field has just 11 Fe»r • team is rounding into shape and Theta, 6-0, 6-1. Gammons, Delta Up- South College O; Lambda Chi Alpha been completed. With the advent of = Sanitary and Efficient : will be ready for Vermont on Oct. silon, defeated Walling, North Col- 6 • Phi Delta Theta 0 i Neutrals 26 • standard time, the use of the lights II II 10. The team is very well balanced, lege. Helling, Neutral, defeated Lif- Sigma Chi 0 · for late football practice will be 11 BARBER SERVICE Ill With Jack Smith and Jimmy Riggs definitely out with injuries, and Stubby Adams removed be- cause of scholastic deficiencies, Nels Nitchman has had to realign his first eleven. In scrimmage against the freshmen Wednesday, he scrambled the backs around sev- eral times before hitting on the best combination. Finally he came up with a quartet comprising Ernie Brown, Billy Thomas, Ty Dennett, and Jake Amazon. These are the men who will start Saturday, and they will probably play until they drop. Behind them the capable re- serves are negligible, only George Haskell being certain to appear. If Nels needs any more backs, he will have to start picking them from a hat. the time between the first and last set, Phi Sigma Delta, 6-2, 2-6, 6-3, Sept. 30: Sigma Phi 26, Phi Sigma necessary. : : runners to cross the tape Wednes· Bergst1om, Delta Upsilon, defeated Kappa 0: Phi Gamma Delta 9, II !>.,manu to see this card when • day being only 58 seconds. Of H. Enzer, South College, 6-2, 6-4 . .Alpha Delta Ph iO; Kappa Nu 7, 12 Y•·u entH a llarl>er HhoJ•. II ~ourse, it must be realized that the Baxter, Neutral, defeated Fenton, Delta Chi 0 !forfeit); Phi Sigma I: : coUise was the freshman three-mile Delta Upsilon, 6-0, 6-1. Rathbun, AI· Delta 6, Kappa Alpha 0. 111 • J ·og, not the gruelling 4.7-mile var- pha Delta Phi, defeated Halpern, Oct. 5: Delta Phi vs. Lambda Chi II • AI h AI d fl ld S th C I For Deluxe Coaches Call • a sity course which the team will Kappa Nu, 6-1, 8-6. Wiberly, South P a, exan er Ie : ou o- 1• • have to cover against Vermont. College, defeated Peck, Phi Delta lege vs. Phi Delta Theta, Alexander • • However, the showing o·f Annese, Theta, 6-3, 6-2. field; North College vs. Kappa Nu, G A II 11 together with the fact that neither It is the intention of the Athletic Council field; Delta Upsilon vs. Psi Welcome • 11 Don Thompson nor Sam Hewitt Department to expand the present Upsilon, Council field. • 1 · I : : ran against the yearlings, points to program of intramural athletics by Oct. 6: Phi Sigma Kappa vs. & Son • • a capable team. the organization of teams upon a Alpha Delta Phi, Alexander fieldi I: • One pleasing fact is shown in the divisional basis, providing there is Sigma Phi vs. Phi Gamma Delta, • : number of sophomores on the team. enough intere;:;t to wanant such Alexander field; Winner of Kappa : •. At present, there are but four sen- expansion. These teams will com- Sigma ·VS. Alpha Phi Delta game vs. 11 Union Barber Shops for • iors-Hewitt, Ray Denton, Everest, pete against each other in touch Winner of Chi Psi vs. Neutral 171 J UNION ST. • and Harry Meyers--and all of these football, basketball, softball, and game, Council field; Loser of Beta • Union Boys : have been giving way to under- other activities in the present pro- Theta Pi vs. Theta Nu Epsilon PHONE 4-9444 •.• LOOK YOUR BEST .= classmen in the practices held up gram that can be adapted to the game vs. Loser of Theta Delta Chi to date. Captain Hawltes himself is new grouping. vs. Sigma Chi game, Council field. ~~~~~~~~~~~;;;~;;;;~~r~~~-~~~~~~lil~l~·~~~~~~~~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~i With the exception of left guard and right tackle the line will be the same one which opened against Middlebury. Either Jimmy Mul- care or Wally Baker will play in Riggs postj and \Rick\ Angle, a blackhaired junior tackle ineligible last year, may step in at right tackle in place of Frank Gatchell. Th.e two C's, Controy and Campbell will guard tbe flanks with Van Ladd, Bob Barton, and co-captain Bill Potts completing the starting eleven. but a junior with two great years All students will be eligible to - I before him. The remaining and compete in the new program sub- most promising members of the· ject to the sole restriction that they tiqUad--Annese, Wells, Thompson, must compete for the division to Sheffer, Denton and Meyers-are which they belong. The general sophomores, so it would seem that, rules of eligibility governnig intra- whether or not this be a banner mural competition will a!s() apply. Book Center 204 NOTT TERRACE Announces year, at least there is g-reat promise This new program will be run off in the future. at the same time as the usual pro- Christmas Book Club Hobart Lineup For Hobart it will be Bob Ayr- ault and Marshall Armstrong at end, Ren Rich and Chuck Laurence at tacltle, Chink Babcock and Dave ---lr---- Outing Club Rents School More Than 50 Attend First Meet- ing; Plan Hike Up Gore Mt. Narra\vay at guard, and Be11jamin, :Oi~~a,tj~fi,ed with attendj:pg (!la~ses a new man at centre. Ayrault was six days a week, the Outing Club the obscure substitute end who was has acquired a schoolhouse on Gore raised to a varsity portfolio after Mountain in which to spend its flagging the pass which beat the weekends this winter, according to Garnet last year. Rich and Laur~ an announcement made recently by ence, the tackles, weigh in at 225 Robert Symonds '38, president of and 212 respectively:- :Babcock, a the club. scythe-like blocker and a demon at The new winter headquarters is backing up the line is the standout. situated at North Creek not far As backs, Wilson will start Jack from the cabin rented by the club Bowling at quarter, Hugh Miller, last year. A group of twelve or who passes and lticlts from the left more members headed by Fred slde and who collaborated with Wyatt, faculty advisor, plan to go .Ayrault in last year's pay-off pass to North Creek this week-end to and Fred King, a crushing bucker, gather wood for the winter and in- at the halves with Carl Ferris or stall sleeping bunks in. the school- Bob Wright as the fullback. Miller house. A hike up Gore Mountain is and Wright are the most dangerous also planned if conditions allow. runners. t· 't The Garnet is not at all down- Now in its fourth year of ac lVI y, hearted after Saturday's defeat. the Outing Club had its first meet- ing last week which attracted an They firmly believe they deserved attendance of fifty students, includ- to win and hope to prove their real ing many freshmen. The rent and worth tomorrow. maintenance of the club's new Dennett especially should be an d f imnroved player, The big sopbo- cabin will be pai by money rom .... the student tax fund, the first year more has all the native ability and that the Outing Club has received physical accoutrement necessary, aid from that fund. A.nother inno- but is handicapped by his extreme vation this year will be the issu· inexperience. Last_ Saturday was ance of membership cards, the first time he had ever played· the backfield on any man's team. Furthermore it was his first foot- ball in six years. In case anyone is interested the athletic department is not planning to run competition with Princeton and its ·mile runs between the halves by introducing high diving. It seem the Boy Scouts are holding a circus on Alexander Field and th{]se lofty edifices are theirs. The g11.me will be the twenty-sev- enth in a thirty-nine year old series. Union has won sbcteen, dropped ten and tied one. Fox Has New P()St President Dixon Ryan Fox. has been appointed a member of. the College Council of the Board of Regents of the University of the State of New York, th.e President's office announced today. This body is called upon by the State Department for advice on problems arising in -the field of higher and professional education. garm, but the results will not be in- .cluded in the competition for the Intramural Trophy. Interested students should report to Sheldon, E.E. divisionj Hewitt, C.E. division; Fryer, S.S. divisioni Hirst and Williams, Math and Sci- ence division; and Reeves, Lan- guage and Literature. The intramural sports program Save 10'1!- on all books; buy your holiday gifts on the club plan and save. \:l book of merit is t/zp ji11est rom- p/iment we can pay a j1·ie1Zd.\ H. WOLFE Wall Paper STRAHAN ....... Artist BIRGE - UNITED Materials CARLSON'S 515 STATE ST. PHONE 4-4700 GAZETTE PRESS PRINTING HENRY'S BARBER SHOP BARBERING and MANICURING N. Y. C. Arcade Starting SUNDAY! 2 Inaugurating Our New Gigantic Double Feature Policy! WILLIAM POWELL-CAROLE LOI\lB.utD in \MY MAN GODFREY\ ASSOCIATE HIT ROBERT YOUNG ''SWORN ENEMY\ JOSEPH CA.LLEIA in ANMGM PICTURE Whether you like it with vichy or ~inger ale see \L k \ u e at Ce·orge Herath's Phone 2-4160 Oppos.ite Van Curler

Four Dro Fox Announces College Preachers n,.. Cummins Recove,.ing Will Continue Campaign Union':; faculty candidate for ;r'HE CONCORDI~NSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1936 Campus Sentiment Favors Cooperative CALENDAR Today Gll@UP POINT SYSTEM In.ti•amurals Distinguislled Clergymen Are Scheduled to Preach in Sunday Chapel Congress, Dl'. h:at·l K Cummins, (Continued from Page 1) who has been confined to bed in and who is also steward of the Del- the Elli:;; Hospital since September ta Upsilon fraternity, declared that 2-±, w·hen he underwent an opera- the cooperative system could make tion on his back is reported to be a 15 per cent reduction in ;food tecoveting. Dr. Cummins injured costs for the fratetnities. He advo- nis back last spring. cated the .cooperative system, he 8:00 p. m.-Cooperative system. fraternity stewards meet. te> consider system for Unwn~ Washburn Hall. Townameuts *Touch FootbalE (9), *Basketball (5) Points Entrance Add. 50 100 Winner 150 Satmday 10:00 a. m. - Daily Assembly. Professor \Varren C. Taylot·, speaker. MAJOR 'SPORTS: *Softball (9) INTERMEDIATE S::PORTS: 35 65 100 Many distinguished cle1·gymen are included in the list of Sunday Chapel preachers announced today :by President Dixon Ryan Fox. Arnong them are ::;everal n1en fa- miliar to Union students as they have appeal'ed ·before in the Me- morial Chapel. Although he may not be able to said, because he believed conditions take an active part in the cam-· would eventually compel a more pcugn tol' se~·~t a.l days, candidate ·efficient and economical method \,;Uuunins is able to issue state- for buying commodities, anyway, 2:00 p. m.-Football, Union vs Hobart, Geneva, N. Y. Sunday 11:00 a. m. -Sunday services, Dr. Edward Ellery, preacher, Fall Tennis ·(3), iBasketba.ll Twen~y­ one (5), Wrestling :(3), Boxing (3), Spring Tennis (:l) MINOR SPORTS: Horseshoes ( 6), ·Gc:>lf (3) Meets MAJOR SPORTS; . 25 50 75 ment::; and. has ptumised one for \so why wait?\ Memorial Chapel. ''Fall Outdoor 'J:'raeJit (6), *Swimmmg Foul Shooting flO), *Spring Outdoor Track (6) (4) 40 60 100 . pubilcatton. 'in the Cunconliensis From three off-campus fraterni- 4:00 p. m.- Organ recital by J?r- Elmer A. Tidmarsh, Memortal Chapel. m the next i:osue, . ties, Kappa Nu, Phi Sigma Delta . ---o --- and Theta Delta Chi, and Alpha Monday ( 'I•l'dl' ... on Defeat Is Good. Delta Phi and Psi Upsilon the re- u: .L ports were all in favor of the co- For Players, Says Brown operative as a system \that would 10:00 a. m.--Student body meet- INTERMEDIATE SPORTS: Football Field· Neoet (6), :Baseball Field Meet (6) 30 45 75 The Reverend Bernard 1. Bell, D.D., Canon, St. John's Cathedral, Providence, R. I., appeared last Sunday as preacher at the opening set vice. On the coming Sunday Dr. Edward Ellery, Chairman of the Faculty, will deliver the sermon. He will be followed on October 11 ·bY Dr·. A. G. Butzger of the West- minister Chur<!h of Buffalo. The preachers on succeeding Sun- days include·: October 18, President J. Edgar Parker of Wheaton Col- lege, Norton, Mass.; October 25, Dr. Archibald Black of the Montclair Congregational Church, Montclair, N.J.; November 1, Dr. Samuel Mc- Crea Cavert, secretary of the Fed- eral Council Churches of Christ in America; November 8, Reverend Kenneth B. Welles of the First Presbyterian Church of Albany; November 15, Reverend Leslie Glenn, Rector of Christ Church, Church, Cambridge, Mass.; Novem- ber 22, Dr. Robert Br~:>wster Beattie of the First Presb:yterian Chur·ch of East Orange, N. J.; December 6, Captain B. Frank Mountford of the Church Army in the U. S. A. On December 13 the annual Christma::; musical service will be held. The remain:ing speakers for the first ter·m include: January 10, The Rt. Reverend J. T. Dallas, D.D., Bishop of New Hampshire; January 17, President R. B. Ogliby of Trinity College, Hartfu1·d, Conn.; January 24, Dr. Miles H. Krumbine of Plymouth Church, Shaker Height,;, Cleveland, 0. The services will be broadcast as usual over radio station WGY. The college choir under the direction of Dr. Elmer E. Tidmarsh, will provide music for the services. -- o- ~- Bureau Finds Jobs For 134 Graduates \Continued from Page 1) job and applicant together. La~t year forty firms engaged thf.'ir em- ployees from L'nion College through corre~pondents, twenty other!' :<Pnd representatives to intNViC'w th<' seni01s on the campu~. anct the others !;rnnted intHview\ in th<'ir home offices. The pulicy under which the L'nioa College Placement Bureau operates was evolved following confPrf.'ncPs with professional personnel officers. including- ;'>L :\1. Boring and Donald Millham '27. of the GPneral Ele<'tric Company: H. L. Davis of th<' New York TelephonP Company; W N. Bissell of New York Power and Light: Professor C:uy V. GlatfC'it<'r. director of enoployrnPnt of Ma,,;- n<'hUs£>tts StntP C'ollPgP; J. Dnuglas Brown, director of induRtrial rela- tions at Princeton University; Har- old B. Converse of the National Personneol Bureau: and F. V. BiR- trup, secretary of the Associated Industries of Massachus'etts. Mr. Wyatt says that the \tuciPnt with a high scholastic average who is also engaged in extra-curricular activities is the one most likPiy to get and succeed in a position. --~--o-~-~-- JUST IN JEST tContinued from Page 2l campus gratis; Uncle Philip claims there have been abuses . . . we're going to have a Sophomore Soiree; it's about time . . . whenever the Student Service Bureau want any free publicity they write a letter into the Concordy ... who is the college song leader and where was he Saturday afternoon . . . will somebody do something about that awful band that played at the Mid- dlebury-Union game . . . campus rumor had it that quite a few Phi Gam's were organizing a \Phi Gamma Delta Club for Roosevelt.\ A Concordy reporter called the fra- ternity for specific information. He was told there was nothing to the story. Well, this is just to inform youse guys that the rumor Is true. There are eight members of Alf's fraternity who plan to organize a Roosevelt club. They will do so in a few days. That iR, unlef's the head of the house persuades them otherwise. YOUR UNCLE WILLY congratu- lates the Student Council upon a most auspicious start. Under the ex- tremely able leadership of Prexy Everest it will probably contribute more to Union college than any Student Council has for many, many years. A new system ( ?) of rushing is almost certain. And Gad don't we need one. W.W.M. cut expenses\ and which would ing, Old Chapel. function as a legitimate business, w:ithout alienating the local busi- ness men·. In some houses opinion is di- vided. Jack Nott, '38, of Kappa Al- pha, declared that several of his fraters felt that they would tather continue the present system. He Tuesday 10:00 a. m.-- Daily Assembly, Li- brarian Helmer L. Webb, spealter, Memorial Chapel. . 8:00 p. m.-Gavel Club meet111g-, Silliman Hall. MINOR SPORTS: Skiili.g and Sno-wsihoeing (2) 20 30 50 • Cup~ will be a:w.arded. to .the winner. . The number in parenthesis on the a~ove chart designates. the number of men th:at must be ent.ered m the tournament or meet in ord.er to gain. tbe entra.nce pomts. \An open-minded fellow can pt olit more from analyzing himself after a serious deleat on the grid- Iron than he could from the many years ot pe1::>onal contacts that he will make later in his life,\ Ernest Brown, co-captain of football, told the student body Wednesday morn- mg in datly assembly. Stressing the benet its ot athletics in the bullding of character, he declared that the fellow who can suffer defeat and cdttcisrn in a game and go out agau1 with a smtle and the deter- nunation to win \is the one who will teally amount to something when he lace:; the world alone.\ also suggested in the event of dif- ferences in the desir~d qualities of goods that seve1al cooperatives among four or five fraternity groups could be organized for more Fmnces Travis Wml Malte Fox Attends lnaugunti()n Three Speeches ;Next Week Of New Hobart P1·esident Idol Board Appoints Maples, Cohen Officers Tr·acing the development of ath- letics from ancient times to the present, Ht·own emphasized the close connection between univer- :51ties and sport. Starting from the bo1edom of young students with the dullneti:> of academic work, sport gained, he said, an increas- ingly impo!'tant position in curri- cula as Its benefictal qualities be- .:ame recognized. Endmg with a discussion of the Umun football team, Captain Brown predicted a successful year If the team received. the support of the college whether in favorable or unfavo1able circumstances. ---o·--- Dr. 'Valdron Eulogizes Meade, Famous Alumnus specific cooperation. President Dixon Ryan officially There was little comment from represented Union College at tlle the independents on the campus, inauguration of William Alf.red: but several students t:emarlted that Eddy as President of Hobart Col- with the rising cost of food the ad- lege and William Smith College at vantage of savings \in these times\ Geneva, N. Y., today. should make a good issue for the On Wednesday, October 7, Dr. cooperatives. I Fox will deliver the principal ad- ----~o-- -- dress at the annual convocation of B , . d T dd F* • , Wesleyan University, Middletown 1 a) an 0 IgUI e I Conn., Dr. Fox Will speak to tlle Pl'ominently inN. y. News academic assemblage of stucten~s and faculty on \Does Scholarst:up Pay?\ Two of Union's family, an alum- o--- nus an~ a trustee, figure prom!- Gavel Club Meeting nently m the news. of New York I State politics this week. The alumnus,. William Bray, '11, Planning a season of consider- h~s been nc;>mmated to suc~ee~ I able activity as the sponsor of i. n- htmself as Lteutenant-Governm. o formal meetings with men a.nd the State of New York, as runmng- women of various social and poll- mate to Governor H~rbert H. Leh- ·tical views, The Gavel Club, organ- man. Hiram c. Todd, president of the !zed last year under the impetus of board of trusteE.'s of the college, has the Nunan Bill hearings, will hold just announced his resignation as its first meeting to decide its ·pro- special prosecutor in the notorious grams next Tuesday night in Silli- Drukman investigation in New man Hall. Last year's members at:e York City. His resignation followed urged to attend the first meeting-. Thunday, October 1.-Charles N. after the dismissal by Governor ·---o--- Waldron, secretary of the college, Lehman of the charges made by IRC Will Meet eulogized llis lifelong friend, C. Todd and the grand jury against Lawrence Meade, '09, in his assem- Prosecutor Francis X. Geoghan. bly address this morning. l\>leade The International Relations Club who was one of t:nion's more fa- will hold its first meeting Monday mous alumni. died in Paris Monday NOTES ON OUR afternoon at 1:30 p.m. In the Social night. · CONTEMPORARIES 'Studies Office in Bailey Hall . .All Mr. Waldron, who was a frater- I 'regular members are requested to nity brother of the deceased, could The American College Publicity attend as the important plans :for not give ~'[eade too much pr-aise. Association at the annual conven- the year will be discussed at that \He was one of the most attractive tion in Boston elected Frank s. time. and loYable men I ever knew,\ he Wright, University of Florida, as its 0 remarked ye;;terday. Be:;ides giving president. Blotter Corrections hi.; busme;;s hititory, Union's histor- A Jump in the Lake 1 • tan added many colorful and amus- Extension of Northwestern Uni- I ~everal correctiOns on the a-th- ing anecdotes about his friend dur- versity's Evanston campus a half 1 Jette tichedules have to be made on in;; hi.:; undergraduate career. mile into Lake Michigan is bemg 1 the Union College blotter is•Uell Meade, who was bo1·n in Hills- planned by that institution's au- 1 Wednesday by the Student Service dale, Mtch., on October 29, 1886, en- thorities. 1 Burea~. In bas.eball, the Middlebury tt•red T.:nion in 1905, where he By way of increatilng enjoyment , game IS defimtely scheduled; Col- achie\·ed a record of great interest of football through more intimate 'gate is not playing Union; on M:ay in college activities. He was a mem- knowledge of its finer points, : 26 Union plays Army away. In ber uf va.rtilty athletic teams, man- Coach Charles E. Dorais of the 1 track, Union does not meet Arrrty. ager of hockey, and a member of T.:niversity of Detroit conducts free · In lacrosse, April 30, Union plays the Terrace Council. football clinics for fans. I Colg~te away; Lafayette game Is After graduation he entered the Two French university students I pendmg. advettising field, where he worked commissioned by France's ministry 1 ----a---- until the world war. He served In ?f cduca!ion ~~e now tourin?' Amer- I :sew Professors Honor£d the l:. S. Army for two years as a tcan univers!ttea to examme the __ _ captain of the motor transport social life of the American student. . 1 <Continued from Page 1) corps. In 1935 he was decorated Joe College, Jr. . old Blodgett, new assistant profes- with the French Legion of Honor. More than 100,000 students m the sor of English, told his listeners. He beca.nie connected with the U. S. are now attending America's \Union is alert to currents of ex:is- Pari~ branch of the Central Hano- !'i()O junior colleges. Fift~en. years I tence, not above, but in the conllid. ver Trust Company in 1927 and was I ago t~ere were ?nly 100 JUmor col-I Union seems to me to be a place manager of this concern until his leges m the natwn. whet e 'gladly would I learn and Before the Child. Conservation Louis C. Maples, '39, was a:p,point- League, meeting tonl:ght ~t t~e ed secretary of the editorial board i:WcA, Miss Jfranc:is Travts w1ll 'of The Idol, Union College Uterary ·discuss the \Union ColJege Student quarterly, at the fi:vst meeting of the Employment Bureal!.\ of which she year yesterday. S. Ralph Cohen, '37, is the director. Miss rr.ravis faces was elected business manager, sub- a busy schedule durlr:tg the next' ject to the approval of the Publica- few days as she w·ill deliver t.wo tions Board, at the same meeting-. lllOI'e addresses during the commg The Idol, the first issue of which week. will probably appear on N()vember on sunday Miss Travis will 16, .is already soliciting literary con- speak to the Hospit.al Auxiliary of tributions from students. \Anything Amsterdam on \Worr.:ten in ·rhis which is at least legible may ·be Campaign.\ Tuesday tbe Council ?f · handed in to any of the editoria.l J·ewish Women in Scbemectady wtll ·board\ Ferdinand Helm, Jr., co- hear her discuss \Uniom College.\ · editor, announced today. Wednesday and Thursday, Miss The full editorial board of The Travis attended the New York Na- Idol consists of Helm and John C. tiona! Youth Adminisbation con- Davis, '37, co-editors, Cohen, Maples and Lon H. Barringer, '39. ference in Albany. The board will meet next Wednes- 0 day at 1:30 o'clock. Scouts Planning Circus B.S.A. Talies Over Atthletic Field For Pioneer Event Tonigb.t Union's gridiron will be t·eturned · to the forest primeval t..onight when local Boy Scouts take it over to demonstrate their abii:ity in erect- ing rustic pioneerin.g ;Shelters and . bridges. The activities of the Boy Scout circus as ton.igbt's event is l~nown will begin at 7:~0 P.M. with a band concert. Special lights have been erected on the atbletic field to provide necessa:ry lighting-. Scouts will demo-nstrate during the evening their ability in con- structing rustic shelters and furni- ture, improving caoop sites, I:Juild- lng trails and making cookery an efficient art. Different troops have been assigned to ace omplish the vat ious tasks, the most difficu It be- ing the building of bridges. A.s the final to.uch to the tasi.:: of erecting a complete camp, sevet·al groups will erect a fence a..nd gateway around the entire fi-eld .. BELLINGER PAl NT CO. ARTHUR TRI:GG, Prop. Paints, Oils, Varnlsltes, Glass, Brushes and WaU Paper 126 BROAD~ AY FRANK FERR.ARO FRUIT and l\'RODUCE The Best, for the L-east, Wita Dependable S~TVice FELLOW STUDENTS I take pride in announc- ing the opening of a cam- pus agency for Nash Clothes Custom-Built SUITS TOPCOATS OVERCOATS J.H.BROWN Delta Upsilon House l ~~~~~ GET YOUR COLL£GE RING Bearing Official Seal Certified $2.00 Value only 25c death. Sits ~n tlte Soil gladly teach.'\ ~~-o John ~tu?-rt Curry,\ faZ?ecl_ arti~t ~r. Helmer L. Webb, newly ap- 1vith the of the, sot!, 1s nov: an . artist 1': rest- pomted librarian, promised the fac- purchaseofa 1231 Crane St. T-el. 2-78~8-W Admiral Robinson Talks On Education in the Navy \After the complete schooling of an officer in the navy there remains little left for him to do but retire,\ declared Admiral S. M. Robinson, L'. S. ::S., recently in daily assembly where he spoke on education in the navy. T-hroughout his entire service as student at the naval academy and officer on the high seas the navy man is continually learning and go- ing througll examinations, said Mr. Robinson. Only recently the naval academy began giving the bachelor of sci- ence degrl'e after congress had passed an act permitting it. Cul- tural subjects at the academy, said Admiral R()blnson, have been given also in recent years in addition to the staff regimen of technical sub- jects. Competition in class work and scholastic achievement, he said, is ext rernely keen and knowledge is tested .rather than imparted. BOOKS <Continued from Page Zl tati ves~ -not very startling informa- tion. Considered from an angle ob- livious of the class-struggle, Cradle of Ufe is a sensitively written, en- tirely engmssing, simple novel. H. M.S. Editor's Note: Cradle of Life has just been added to the Hale House library. d.ence at the Umverstt~· of Wrscon- ulty that the changes and enlarge- bottle of stn. . I ment of the staff will give the 11- HeaJthy Pamters brary a larger opportunity to ser-ve ~ k Q /(_ New .York Un~versit:y has a new the student body and the faculty. The ACME ~ ar er uJ .. course m cosmetic hygiene. ; ~e. pla.ced a share of the responsi- \' ·~ Must Be an Honest Cop 1 b1llty for student interest in the 11- B b S h Dr. A. Lawrence Lowell, pr·esident 1 brary upon the faculty. ar er . 0p atl5c-Total40c. ,, YOU SAVE $l.ni emeritus of Harvard University, re- 1 ~-==============::; ThePaFkerPenCo.makesthisarnazing:olfer cently failed to pas::; an automobile 1 r solely to lnduce ¥OU to try Parker Quink-tbe driving examination. I DE WITT'S LUNCH W I rel!larkable ne\! tnk that clean~ your pen as it e comes All wnd tes-thatdnes0NPAPER31%faster,yet Prof. Selig Hecht of Columbia • a:nd TAP ROOM oes NOT dry in a pen. · University claims that chemicals in Union College Sihtdenfs T Get ~ui11k today from any store selling ink. the eye cause our color sense. Home Cooked Foods thearFoULLthe box-top, and on the back writ:e Make Traff 'e Ja Th h E · 0 Fin . e NAME of your school or ce>lle<r.e, 1 ms oug llJOY Ul' e Beverages nng SIZE, and style wanted (man's or woman 7 s) Women drivers react more slowly u 8 JAY ST. 509 UNION :S'l'. and your name and address. 'Then than men in time of braking emer- Nearest the Gampus mail box-top with 25 cents in. coin gency, according to findings of a 1 Opposltf> City Hall to The Parker Pen Co .• Dept. 73:8, Janesville, Wis. series of scientific tests given at I =;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;g Don't delay. This offer ends Dec. Pennsylvania State College. lr ~~~~~~;;;;;~;;;;;;~;;;;;;~~~~~~3~1~, 1~9~3~6,~i~f~su~p~p~ly~la~sts~. ~~~ Paradoxical Dr. Clarence A. Mills of the Uni- UNITY NOBBS versity of Cincinnati claims that • the falling birth rate Is due to an increase in the earth's heat. Yale University is having the home of Noah Webster razed be- cause no one would furnish funds for its upkeep. ---0·---- Concordiensis Meeting All staff members of The Con- cordiensis staff will meet to- night at 5 P. M. in the Publica- tions Office in Silliman Hall. Attendance is required. ADAM HATS $2.95 Shirtmakers Haberdashers 104 BROADWAY 2 Doors from State St. LOUIS WASSERMAN QUALITY MEAT MARKET 354 Broadway STUDENI~ of LITERATURE and DRAMA An E><c~llent Opportunity to Obtain Your Required Reading Books Everyman 1 s Series ~odern Library Series Bur-t Home Library Series CO PIES FOR 95c PARKE~ ~ENS ARE A STANDARD FEATURE UNION COLLEGE BOOK STORE RClol!11 5-Administration Building ' I l .. .. I l l Use~ neopel U[}r.:t Ut·g:e Vol. LX., N Mounte Russiai1 First F Miss 1\Ihian \S'quat:in~ Vale11 Readi Tryouts alH F()ll()W 1 Miss .M:ir.iarr: rector for -1: (Rowland Ste the campus ·o the tryouts fo \Squat'ing the ious cmned.y tangled in the] the modem S< nouncement v by John B. D of the JY.£ou Committee :foL \Squaring- H viewed ton igr tryout in whi read so that may be mor reading at thE day night. Tonight's· re play will take Silliman Hall. take part in bank5 procl.uc urged to be .pr Three :Ph It was also produce three \Squaring the sented on Nov Maxwell Ande terset\ vriU be in Marcil, eith or 12, 13, and (A check is bei conliicting dat tiom;), r'or th end play, Met· f ul play about burgh, \The \ will most like!: Executive Con: The director the Pron pia: on Friday. Mi uate manager, on the five c been interview ing the weeke L. Carroll, dir· sence this yea committee is and upon recei announce·ment known, -howev perienced. pzof has demonstl'; to t1 ain young :;tagecratts. Announce me met I opoli tan I that !v1r. Stebt duce his new Doyle has com the Mounteba donating her E view restetda~ clear that she coming produ campus as ser of her shows will not only weekend, but producthn scl crew. Tht ee w ing she will hete In .order The Mounte ular Tuesday plays herea.fte in a 1 egular p be announced students are h readings. Placement All Se Attention all f All seniors to the ?lac: err Administratior now and Octo Is as foliows: · F. M. Alexanc lich, · October : Frost, Jt·. thrc October 19 thr through G. W plan to attend ready have a ing for \111/(}rir you will call a~ in order that up to date,

oint- o~rd the '37, sub- ting-. con- y be orial co- The C. IR as it yet writ:e 'Then coin 738, Dec. ' I l ' I Use of Reopened Ub1·a:::y Ut·ged Vol. LX., No. 5 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y.; TUESDAY, OCTO~ER 6, 1936 • Mountebanks To Read First Play Tonight PRICE FIVE CENTS Mcrunte\banks Pick ·Observer Feels Union Cooperatlve Roosevelt Club Remodeled Library Opened R~ssiaaComed~As Would Have Far-Reaching Results ToBeginMonth we h All s . R d F1rst Froductitln _ ~ Of Campaigning It erv1ces esume Miss M.iFiam Doyle to Direct \S'qualing- the Circle\ by Vale1tib1.e Kataev Reading Tonight Tryouts and Casting Fdday Foll()W Preliminary Review Miss Mir.ian Doyle, producing di- I·ector for Laurence Rivers lne. (Rowland Stebbins, '04), will visit the campus ·on Friday to conduct the tvyouts for Valentine Kataev'5 \Squal'ing the Circle,\ the uproal- ious comedy about young people tangled in their problems of love in the modern Soviet Union. This an- nouncement was made last night by John B. Dowling '37, chairman of the ·JY.[ountebanks Executive Committee :following a meeting. \Squaring- the Circle\ will be re- viewed tonight in a preliminary tryout in. which the play will be read so that aspirants for parts may be more prepared for the reading at the official tryouts Fri- day night. Tonight's reading- of the Kataev play will take place at 8 o'clock iu Silliman Ball. All those wishing to take part in any of the Mounte- banks productions this year are urged to be -present. Three Flays T.his Season It was also <lefinitely decided to produce three plays this season. \Squat·ing the Circle\ will be pre- sented on November 20, 21, and 23. Maxwell Anderson's drama, \Win- terset\ 1viU be presented sometime in March, either March 5, 6 and 8; or 12 13, and 15; or 29, 30 and 31. (A check is being made to eliminate conflicting dates of other or~aniza­ tions). r'or Ute Junior Prom week- end play, Met·ton Hodge's succesr- ful play about college lige in Edin- burgh, \The Wind and the Rain,' will most likely be the choice of the Executive Conmittee. The dir-ectol:' for \Winterset\ and the Pt·o1n play will be announced on Friday. Milton M. Enzer-, grad- uate manager, reported last night on the five candidates who have been interviewed in New Yoxk dur- ing the weekend with Mr. Edward L. Carroll, director, on leave-of-ab~ sence this yea.z·. The choice of the cumrui ttee is being notified toda) and upon receipt of his reply. publil announcement will be made. It is known however, that he is an ex- pet·ien~ed. pzofussional uil ector who has demonstl'ated his ability also to ttain young people in acting and stagecratts. Announceruents in yesterday'E metropolitan newspapers indicated that !V1r. Stebbins will wait to pro- duce llis new play until after MisE Doyle has completed her work with the Mountebanks to whom he if donating her se1 vices. In an inte1~ view reste1day, Miss Doyle rnade it clear that she consider·ed the forth coming produ-ction on the Union campus as serious an event as one of her shows in New York. She will not only cast the play thil weekend, but ·will also lay out thl productio-n schedule for the stage~ crew. Tht ee weeks before the open~ ing she will make her 1esidencl he1e In order to rehearse daily. The Mountebanks will hold leg· ular Tuesday night readings o! plays hereafter for thofe not en, · in a tegular production. Plays will be announced In advance and al! students are ln~ited to attend these readings. ----01---- Placement Office Asl{s AU Seniors to Report Attention all seniors: All seniors are asked to report to the Placetnent Office, Room 6, Administration Building between now and October 24. The schedule Is as follows: October 5 throug-h 10, F. M. Alexander through M .. Froe- ll<!h, ()ctobe-r 12 through 17, F. W. Frost, Jt·. throug-h R. C. Moon, and October 19 thr-ough 24, C. Morrison through G. Witbeck. Whether you plan to attend. graduate school, al- ready have a JlOSition or are look· ing fc~r 'W(}rir, It Is expected that you will call at .the placement office in order that the records may be up to date, Editor's Note: T-his is the first of two ruticles on the coopera- tive movement by Mr. Samuel Unger. A second will be printed Friday. Mr. Unger l.s manager of the Distributing Center of the Schenecmdy Consumers' League and attended the Coop- erative held last summer at Amllei'st College under the au- spices of the Eastern Cooper- ative League, where he was editor of The Institute Daily Press_ Immediate benefits in the nature of \savings returns\ will undoubt- edly result from the formation o·f a fraternity consumers' cooperative. But, as important, is the stress placed by cooperatives on quality in the purchase of a:ll consumer wants. The determination of quality '\ made th1 ough scientific analysis with the principle-the consumer mllilt be given first consideration- underlying all such research. Co- operatives throughout the world have won themselves an enviable position because of this stress on quality. With the elimination of quacks, nostrums and the various forms of appeal used to quicken sales, it is often found that goods bulbs, the prices were cut more than half. The formation of co-operative at Union CoHege, if conducted along the lines laid down by the Rochdale Pioneers, will have far-reaching re- sults. Students, -by doing the job, w-Hl enjoy the benefits and learn the value of democracy, through democratic control of their co-op- erative. Rochdale cooperatives, and these seem to be the only ones that· survive, make its members con- sumer conscious, teach them what to look for and demand in the pur- chase of their needs and show them that business, and life, can be con- trolled by them for the benefit of (Continued on Page 4) ----0---- Cites Requirements For Modern Living Dr. Ellery Lists Essentials Man Must Have to Solve Problems of Today of above average quality can be Sunday, October 4-Three essen- sold at or less than average price. tial requirements were laid. down Cooperators in Sweden have broken' by Dr. Edward Ellery, national the flour, galosh. and electric light secretary of Sigma Xi, honorary bulb trusts with attendant t•educ- scientific society, and chairman of tions in price and increases in qual- the faculty, as necessary to \meet ity. In the case of galoshes and the economic and political and so- Bowdoin President Addresses Students Dr. Kenneth Sills Pleads for Individual Thinldng in Chapel Speech He1·e cial confusion\ of four times in his address at the Sunday Chapel exercises this morning. Dr. Ellery said that life today calls for: \Brains plus the principles and ideals of Jeseus as set forth and practiced by Jesus; \A refusal of men to place el~va­ tion of self above the practice of these principles; \And a willingness and a courage on the part of men to face lone- liness, possi-ble rejection.\ Brains Not All Student Group liS Backing Cummins for Congress In Coming Election To Held Public Fol'um Old Time Political !Rally Will Climax Program Of Addresses Monday, Oct. 5--Coming out in full s-upport of Dr. Earl E. Cum- mins' campaign for the Congres- sional election in the thi-rtieth dis- trict, almost 40 Union students met tonight to begin active wor·k as a \Roosevelt- for- Reelection Club.\ Representing all parts of the cam- pus, and almost five per cent of the student body, they laid plans for intensive campaigning- in the few weeks remaining until election. The coming month, they an- nounced, will be devoted to forums on the issues in the campaign, house to house canvasses for their candidates, and a thorough comb- ing of the campus for as many votes as possible. The Club expects to be fully rep- I·esented at the reception for Sen- ator Robert Wagner Thursday night at the Erie Theatre, and will climax their campaign early in No- vember with an old-fashioned torch- light parade and political rally on the campus. The first public meeting of the (Continued on Page 4) Play-by-Play Account OJ Away Games Planned Webb, New Head, Describes Improvements To \Round Building\ in Chapel Address This Morning Made The official re-opening of the Union College library after a summer of remodeling and improving· was announced this morning in an address by Helmer L. Webb, new librarian, in Daily Assembly. Landon Supporters Form Campus Club Students Post List of Aims To AnswH Democratic Proelama tion Editor's Note: Tile Concordi- ensis, attempting to remain openminded. at :aU times, does not use its news colunms to in· duce any political bias. These columns will be open at any time to reports of the actions or words of any political group, Liberty League to Conunrmist, if they are newsworthy. How- ever, as evidences -of tne good faith of those groups, The Con- cordiensis must require that they be connected with person- alities. 1\'londay, October 5--Landon sup- porters lost no time in respond-ing to the \Roosevelt for Reelection\ Group's proclamation, recently cir- culated around the campus by list- ing their principles in a bulletin posted on the side door of Bailey Hall and the bulletin board this morning. Democrats soon defaced the sheet with caustic remarks scribbled across it in pencil. Eleven of these points were listed as aims of the group among which were denunciation of the present administration's financial policy, a Inviting the student body to \come and lli3e the libra1y and make it yours,\ Mr. Webb said: \It is a pleasure to announce that the library after months of dirt and grime is now open to students. The rules made in the past will be fol- lowed as much as possible. We hope that no one, not even a fresh- man, will be unable to find what he wants he1e. The help of attendants will always be available for anyone who encounters difficulty. Library as Workshop \We hope you will regard the li- brary as a workshop to the thirteen and a half pages of daily assign- ments,\ he continued. \We want to take care of those interested only in classwork. We also want to take care of those who are interested in outside work and leisure reading. We think we can keep it comfort- able, quiet, and in good order, and we ask your cooperation in keeping it quiet and not disturbing your neighbo1s with conversation.\ Little of the interior of the li- brary remains unaffected by the al- terations. New soundproof offices have been constructed on one side of the main floor; round study tables, lent in jeflnitely by Columbia University, replace the former read- ing tables,; a new system of diffused lighting has been installed; and on the upper floors the bookracks have been re-arranged. Saturday, Oct. 3.--In a surprise address in Daily Assembly this morning in which he dwelt on the requirements and value of a college education, Dr. Kenneth C. M. Sills, President of Bowdoin College, Bow- doin, Me., said that one of the im- portant purposes of college t1 aining Jti to \enable a petso·n to take his stand on a minority issue, take his stand courageously if he thinks he's right, and have a part in molding mino1 ity opinion.\ Continuing Dr. Ellerey said, \Man today knows mo1 e than the men of the past days knew, that is, mo1·e about the 1ealm of material '.l.nd mind. Man today shapes his physical environment almost as he wills. Man's intelligence in the con- trol or use of the physical universe is sup1·eme today. Yet there is stupendous economic and political and moral and religious conflict. A possible play-by-play de- scription of the Swarthmore and Rochester games relayed to the -campus. at playing time by the Western Union was sug- gested this morning- by Fred- erick A. Wyatt. The project would entail the installation of a receiving ma- chine in a central position on the campus, and an operator would stand by to relay an ac- count of each play. The ball might followed on a blackboard or by some other means. I rPpudiation of the reciprocal trade pacts, thP New Deal's failure to re- lieve the unPmployed, a condemna- tion of their appeals to emotional- The library basement bas been extensively remodeled to accommo- date shelves of reference books. The lighting fixtures for the cellar which have just arrived will be in- stalled as soon as possible. In addi· tion the building has been air-con- ditioned throughout. Living Here a Privilege Elaborating on this statement, Dr. Sills, who has recently returned from a trip abroad, decla1 ed that American travelle-rs in Germany, Italy, and Russia, where dissenting <)Jements are promptly suppressed, realize their \privilege in living in d. ftee ~.:ountty like ours\ and \the value of being able to say what we think.\ \A college education,'' declared Dt. Sills, \requires two things: In- \Man today combats conditions with legislations, curtails the free- dom of the individual in the inter- est of the so<'ial unit. This is good. I but dangerous. Legislation should 1 ~!so compel the social whole to con- • ~ider the individual.\ 'l'he expense connected with the project is comparatively small, amounting to $55 for the two games, Wyatt said. All students interested in this se>rvice should see Mr. Wyatt at once. New Gulliver Visits Strange Land Of Frosh Kennels, Watery Greetings tellectual curiosity-the student's LPmuel Gulliver v. g 1 eat-great-~ other boys, engaged in a heated dis- mtetest in what's going on in his \'randson uf the man whose ghost- cussion, which threatened to drown own midn -and intellectual inde- ~niter was Jonathan Swift, visited the wild music coming from a little pendence, which includes respect · this campus today, and departed box in one co1 ner. for one's own opinions.\ And later :soon after he came, a bewildet·ed Eager to find the intellectual in- he remarked that \getting any edu- man, counting himself fully the tcrests of these creatures, Gulliver ~ation is just as much a part of equal in bizane adventure of his approached them. One looked up. .ife as what comes afterwards.\ famed forefather. He soon ex-pects \Lay yuh two ta one the Yanlts take ~----o-~~--- .o publish a book o.f his travels, tha Gi'nts!\ he cried cordially. M >ss Tt·avt's Addi·esses called \Voyaoe Amon-g the Fresh- Gullvier did not understand, and • men.\ \' the conversa-tion flagged. Losing in- Amsterdam Women's Club T u· g over this district by terest in the \Yanks and tha _ _ ____ pla~:.vG~lliver was forced down in Gi'nts\ they be~~n to _Plan what Sunda.y, October 4 Miss Frances the campus pasture for refueling. th_ey .?alled a recepb~m. fer ~ Travis, in an addtess before one With time to kill, he climbed the fllenu • and set about It tmmed!- mndi ed women of the Amsterdam Ten·ace Wall, into the middle cam- at;ly. Ho~pital Auxiliary at a breakfast pus, Strolling along the path, he . rhey _croS~Sed the ~all, and choos- m Amsterdam today on the topic, was intli~ued by the appearance of mg a likely_ door, ptcked the lock. \Vomen in This Campaign,\ de- South College Cou1t, and entered to Then, workmg swiftly, they upset ·la.red that the most fitting tribute xamine the architecture. Thete his the ·bed, pulled the drawers out of B A th e . , n the dresser and threw the contents 'hey could .pay Susan . n ony, adventuz es bega . about the room. Then they tied vho~e pioneering in their behalf ~fj he stood bef_ore the ~oor to knots in all the clothing, and as a ·hey wet e celebrating this year, Mtddlesex, he was mvolved m what final gesture, fixed a pail of water nould be to eradicate superficiality, he thought was a cloud-burst. Look- over the door. Gulliver made a Jmotionalism, ·prejudice, and rancor ing upwards he encount~red on t~e note, \the creatures use drenching JUt of political campaigns. fire-escape a small boy w1th a sadts- with water as a gesture of greet- Miss Travis pointed out that the tic leet· on his face. In his h~nds ing.\ radio and special research bureaus the creature held an empty pall. But the'· were not through. Tak- 8f the major parties were becoming J dangerous instruments instead of Taking shelter inside the door, ing a roll of light tissue paper, they educational instruments in the cam- Gulliver was confronted with a sign festooned it a:bout the room, and paign. She questioned the wisdom reading \Frosh Kennels.\ Upon his set fire to it. But the acrid smell of bringing great personalities like ears burst the sound of barbaric this raised marked the end of Gul- Amelia Earheart and Geraldine music, loud shouting and boisterous liver's travels here. Fanar befoze women's groups to laughter. Seeing no one, he started The stairs resounded to the steps explain In a superficial manner, up the stairs in thP hall-way, only of the overseer of the dormitory, without any reference to real issues: to be lmockedi down by someone who, cudgeling the boys with a or a philosophy of government, descend:illlg in haste, and to be stick having a leather basoket at the why they were voting for certain drenched again by another shower end, drove them back to their candidates. of water. rooms. \Both Miss Ea.rheart and Miss Warily Gulliver approached him. \Don't you know freshman study Farrar have rightly won the ac- \Is this t,he way you greet visitors rules are in effect\ he roared at claim of women\ Miss Travis said. here?\ he aslted. Gullvier. \Get out.\ \They will not' be admired. more \Sorry was the curt response. And out Gulliver went, and as he for assuming we are so gullible that I\Come on in and I'll give yon a I said, \rather relieved, too. Adven- we need little more than fanfare to towel.\ ture isn't always what it's cracked convince us.\ · In the room were a number of up to be.\ ism and class hatred, their parti- ~<:J.nships and failure to carry out their 1932 platform, a deprecation Jf Franklin D. Roosevelt's record, .. md an indorsement of Dr. Frank Crowther as Repvesentative in Con- gress from this district. Democrats \Hypocrites\ The club did not confine its prin- ciples to national and local politics but rather made an is~ue of the sit- uation within the college. \We con- demn the hypocrites at Union Col- lege, both in faculty and student body, who call themselves liberal and call everyone who disagrees with them reactionaries. True lib- erals would resent being classed with them. Having unconventional :md even crackpot ideas does not make you a liberal. A true liberal is one who adopts sound progress- ive measures in ord·er to consez·ve what he already has.\ Additions to the basic platform of the club will be made as the cam- paign progresses and will also be posted in bulletin fot\m. A meeting at which a prominent speaker will present an. address is promised soon. \Union College abandon club\ and \Hear.st\ were two of the post- oscripts added to the posted bulletins by disagreeing Democrats. One of tllem concluded the paper with the c;entence, \Ninety-three per cent of the graduating class have jobs. What more do you want, Hoover?\ New Stebbins Production Building Refurnished One hundred new chairs for the reading rooms have yet to be ob- tained and when these are seeured the library wlll have been complete- ly refurnished. All the renovations we1·e made possible through funds donated by Dr, Frank Bailey, treas- urer of the college. Besides the installation of a ref- erence book section in the base- ment, a ste>rage vault has been built for the safekeeping of historical documents, manuscripts, and me- morabilia. \I should like to emphasize that it is possible to be quiet in the li- brary, Mr. Webb said yesterday aftetnoon. You can concentrate now. The machinery of the library has been placed behind cork and glass where we know it cannot be heard, and we are expecting stud- ents to respond with a reasonable degree of quiet in the reading room. This does not mean that we are running a grad~ school, but con- versation, merely as convr;rsation, we hope will be avoided. \For a number of reasons it has seemed best that for the present at least that the stack room should be kept closed. In other words, books which anyone desh es will 'be se- cured on application at the circula- tion desk and delivered there by student assistants. Whetl1er or not this system will be permanent de- pends on how well it w<>rks and on the reaction of the student body.\ Acclaimed by Reviewers Civic Orchestra to Give Metropolitan drama critics head- ed by Brooks Atllinson of The New York Times, were unanimous thiP week-end in their approval of Row- land Stebbins', '04, zno~t recent American production. \White Horse Inn\ which opened last Thursday night in the newly redecorated Cen- ter Theater. The play house wa~ converted Into a typical Bavarian Beer Hall on a lavish scale. The reports In -paraphrase read: Atkinson, The Times-\Even the oldest citizen was beginning to be- lieve that an American version of \White Horse Inn\ was only a rumble in a producer's office. But last evening it opened for the sea- son at the Cente.r in a beautiful style that should enclear it to the hearts of all good showgoers.\ Mantle, Dally News-\It's th~e biggest stage spectacle we are likely to see this wln.tex'.\ Three Concerts This Year The Schenectady Symphony Or- chestra under the direction of Ken- neth Kelly will present for its third season's program three concerts to be given in the Mont Pleasant High School Auditorium. The orchestra was organized two years ago and is intended to be a permanent institution of music in Schenectady. Public interest aroused in the wori{ of the last two years seems to have assured it of a defi- nite future. A cordial invitation is extended to the people of Schenectady and also to those of the surrounding cities and towns to a.ttend the con- certs of the orchestra. The concert dates for this year are as follows: November 17, March , and April 27. B(}th season and. single ticlrets can be purchased.

Two 'THE! CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1936 ;;;; <llnnrv ~trnsis the football tea:rn kno·ws we are behind it \\'e nrust talk f<>otball in class and out of clas.:s, at the dinaer table, over the tele:phone, at the show and in the showen. Stick: post· e.rs around the c:cm~pu;; carrying their -cry of footiJall. Do an.:ything to :promote enthus- iasm. And then <Jn the eve uf the game senu lhe team awct.y thinki:n~; of victory. They will retum with it. [==C =0 L=;=U=M=N~~ AROUND THE WORLD I By RICHARD SNYDER I \11 Causa P~rsa Parole Assai\ FOUNDED· 1877 lq36 Member IQ'37 Associated CoUe5iate Press Distnbutors of CoUe5iafe Di5est S'Jle and ex~,JtH;vl· HdtiouaJ ndvt-rtt~tn;.:; ri!{Jre~t:nta tive~ ':-.IATiltN.\L Al•VEHTlSI:--:U ::lJ<;H\'ICJ-;, Ill<' ·I:!U :'o.ludt~on .A venue .':\e\1 Yutk Cttr Chu·.lgu u~~:-tllu - San Frant:iseo \ Ptutluutl - ;,;cattll· Junior Board ASSOCIATE EDITORS Carl Tral1man Willard J)ean Edward Bau;y Robert Doig Hyman Enzer Henry Hartmann Robert Ferguson Melvin Muroff Sophomore Board Assistant EdHors M. Depp, F. Hequembourg, P. Humphrey, F. Saidel, D. Taft, R. Walter, R Morgan, D. Mil- ler, J. O'Brien, B. Rathbun, J. Smith. Issue Editor ... ... C. Tl'ahman Assistants R. Walter H. Hartmann ======-~ ~=·-- -- ----~. Tuesda)', October 6, 1936 =========~c~===~=-=-~=- --·= ~-------. BEAT SW ARTHlVIORE l'nion's football team lost Saturday. Evenbodv seems to feel the effects of the loss, • too .• And yet what i.s do11e about it ·: The coach drill;; the Loy.s n little h:urll>l' to p1·event again.st 1·epeating the mi>takes mad{' in the last g~me, and the phwers, in tum. arouse \vitl1in the1nselves a stronger will to win. Dut tlmt is not tlte \\hole tea111. Then: art.• .seven hundred men around the campus, in fraternitY hou,es, and 111 the ;;tand.s. <t host of alu~mi in offices or at home, and a whole town full ·{Jf rooters 111 ::ichenectad.v. All uf then1 compose the team. Their con- tribution dues not come from bodily contact with the oppoiH.·nts, but IS mad€ Ly cheers, 1'\pirit, and e>nthusia~rn. When tht' players, as individuals, ~ee and hear a thousand roote1·s in the stands, they feel that they just can't play badly. But if the spE'ctators are indif- fel·ent. Wl'll, l'\'l'l',Volll' <:an expect the play lu be tile same way. Nuw how are v.:e going to work up enthu:;- ia,;m fo1· a te:tm th<tt ha.~ retur11ed home in defeat'? That is \Vhere we, the students. step in. This footl.Jall team is ours, as is everything that we as.snriatP with the col- lege. \\'e, tht·rl'forp, t•ach onp of u:; ~hould take a pf!l'~Dnal interest in it. Its mistakes. we can sar, are t>Ul' mistakes. To amend them we mu:.t redouble our effo!'ts as the othe!' membt>rs of the team are doing, the>. We gather that The Outi~g Club '13.s hit the open 10ad agam. Oh, Wanderlust, oh, Wand e 1 Ius t ! ! ! They'll be yanking those boys out ,)f empty box-cars before long. . He sought for trees and fled from It Is the humble, and perhaps sophomoric prophesy of this col- umn that aiter the Spanish govern- ment falls in days or so, Holland and France, in the order named, will go through similar internal strife with equally disastrous re- sults. The spread of communism will inevitably lead to a European conflict arising out of the chaos of revolutionary bloodshed . ::;kunks. Enthusiasm in Cniou is u guod thing·. 1t .;ig-nifies a healthy atmosphere. People will tuke interest ,in us when they realize v..-e are a strong a.nd virile body. That is precisely what we want, fol~ Union has something to offer to wh 1 oevet- is intel-ested. Call it edu- cation, if you wish, but in the end what it ,._,~lly amounts to is the app1·eciation of good companionshit>. \ .. Fred Wyatt, faculty adviser of the Outing Club cut down seven trees hmllielf and othet\ of the group did an equal amount of wo1k fwo ctoos-cut saws and three axeG were kept busy mo\t of today in an effox t to pxocure winter fuel. .. \ At last he said, \To hell with t~~~~ Tool:; that do no harm to trees ... And then he shouted, just the same As you have heard him at a game Of tootball, baseball, or lacrosse. Ye~u should have seen those forests toss!!! Such tiOUnd ax ose as 1 at tied heaven, And ti ees fell down to number seven. Now that the United States has seen fit to cooperate with two of the largest countries in the world in an effort to stabilize the mone- tary situatiO<n brought about by widely differentiated financial poli- cies on the part of nations, many will recall something that happened in 1933. Mr. Roosevelt blasted any hope of success by the London Economic Conference in a state- ment to the effect ·that the world would soon realize the fallaey of achieving monetary stabilization through the concerted action of a small group of particular nations. rhe Pl'esident has n-ot exactly eaten his words, but authorities feel that the change is very significant, \ ... Saturday evening the grOlf!J hiked from the cabin down to Thir- teenth Lake by moonlight. After a l:lfteen minute search the \Prim- Jose T1ail\' to the lake was found. An excellent echo was found at the lake whirh fascinated F1ed Wyatt Then said F1 eddie, \Don't be sneer- ing At the joys of pioneering. To keep our health up we will take A little trip to Thirteenth Lake.\ For long they sought the Pr1mrose Trail Back the tean~. Yell your tln·oats hoarse. Today's Concordiensis. To Thirteenth Lake. <.And also Hell, As Shakespeare, who should know And then if tile team does not return victor- ious, well, we will feel like awful fools. You may talk of the Labors of Her- cules. You may mention the patience of Job. will tell ya In lines xecited by Ophelia.) But they were so in viltue cased, Outdooxsy, energetic, chaste, But the Outing Club! it can equal these And much in fear of Freddie's \.Vrath, ------ ·- --~-··. And it guud m«ny m01e on the globe*. They could nut find the Pl'irnro<Je Path. FIRST CEILDliOOD AGAIN Lines from ye ehronic.kell of one whu accompanied ye expeditione to ye Northe Creecke and ye lake whiche is yclept Thirteenthe. And though they shouted, \Let's begin! It's It is hard to realize it, but the dismissal of the foreign minister of a second rate power may change the history of Europe very mate- rially in the near future. That man, whose position by no means indi- cates his intellectual capacities, is Nicolas Titulescu, former foreign minister of Rumania. Clearly, his dismissal hetrays a ·breaking down uf the French system r:>f alliances in eastel'n Europe. For this master mind in diplomacy was the passion- ate heart O·f the movement for col- lective security. Had it not been fo1· M. Laval's unexpected overtures to Italy, Titulescu would have hum- bled Mussolini long ago. But now, King Carol is looking toward Rome and Berlin; neither of those powers ever gives any aid without some material payment: in this case the independence of Rumania, Late!\ they wa:;tecl fifteen minutes. The Student Council at its last meeting authorized the Sophomore Disciplinary Com- mittee to investigate the resumption of class * • • Loud spake good Freddie Wyatt then \The long light shaketi across the lakes.\ Also a penetrating mist. To hi<J band of mote or less merry The climate calls for \what it takes\ scraps. men. A:ad several overcoats, I wist. To the majority of the student bod)~, and at least to The G-<>ncurdiensis, this is a puzz- ling move. Some were under the impression that \'l.'e had a<lvanced beyond the collegiate stage and had actually 1·ealiz.ed that a college is an educational institution and not a .eoun- try club. \Of wood we've not a stick or pole; Of oil we've not a litre They came. Apart then Freddie stooL! \Ve have no shelter and no fire We have no gas; we have no coal And no elect I ic heater No warmth to keep the breeze down You, my It iends, ate going to Upo11 the sloping of the shore, And tried his voice amid the wood And once again and yet once more. But listen, as unto the sound Trees, 1 ocks and distant hills I'cS- pond. freeze, And I can sca1·ce forbear to sneeze. We'd better cut some trees down. For·thwith your weapons lift to He stands as rooted to the ground, Doe~ Fx eddie, and then wavering round, work, On the face oi it, the move for the re- vival of scraps \VOUld seem to derive its im,. pet us ft·om the f'resh man class. These 250 men, as good a!ld perhaps as intelligent a ciHss as ever· came to 1..: nion, seem to d<esire, from campus cmnment and repeated plaster- ing of the Idol with pa..int, a 1·eturn oi the old cttstoms (}f llajrcuts, salt and tomato fights. and cane I\llshes. P€1·haps th.ey would also like a 1·etu rn of the older restrictions on hom·s, clothes, pipes, and the rest. Two cross-cut saws, thtee axes,\ Ana while they hack and push and je1 k He falls among his loyal crowd, As blasted as with powder. For though his voice was loud as loud, Two factors make waz· between China and Japan seem imminent. One is the rising demand of the Chinese· people for no settlement of the dispute except war. The second, and much more important, the union of north and south China, particularly with x·egard to armed forces. The winter wind it waxes. It pierces to the very bone, The bone of Freddie Wyatt. He suffers in his skeletone And cannot help but cry out, 1 For you must know that all this time Despite the rigor of the clime The echo was much louder! And then Fred Wyatt's helpful men Gently bore him home again. F. H. \ Geographical touch, put in for the sake of the rhyme. With all dtte respect to the fresh men, theirs is, to all ir1dications, a mistaken im- pression of college, gained, let us say, from popula 1' fiction de2li:ng· w·ith college life. And popular fiction, \'\'ere it to tell the t:n1th. \\'ould be exti·emely unpopular. He'd done no work, and, thick with rime, He shivered now, a fearful sight. For he had turned completely white.) \You sis::;ies, do you think you're N. B. 'I'he library has a new light- ing system. The old set of twenty wund globes is therefore outmoded II Jl and as useless as a nudist colony THE THEATRE next door to the Ellery's. But a person in authority, in extra high !!.;;;;;;=============-.! authority, has decreed that they re- main in the library because they The only :~rgu:r11e-nL fm· scraps that has men? You're soft as butter-Blow you!!! Give me my axe, my saw, and then \Vith this right arm I'll show you!!\ He took his axe and cross-cut saw And while the North Creek wind blew raw He hacked at roots; he hacked at trunks. look nice. When Dr. Fox has been forgot, And joined himself to Eli Nott, The boys who may perhaps read books, May marvel at the lib'ry's looks, And rnuch admire the dignity or stately inutility. been p1·nverl at all ntlid [ ~ the f~tctor of .class j , hiti part than can be credited only union and rliscipli11e. Ph y:;ica.l discipline has C 1 N EM A ' to a happy combination of casting, I , du ecting and writing rather than to never worked, and tile risk and waste at- B. ' th .. acting alone. Miss Lombard Ll'Ildant upon the foolishness of a class scrap . I :r JOHN B. DOWLING , again exhibits the surenesS> of her I · t'>uch on rom<'dy couplet! with an :tl'!· not \\'Drth th-e ~ligltt amount of a<ld.ed I \'·· d • . 1 ab1Jitr to present each character so . . l\ly ln.an Go frp~· <Ll\lversal: a\ t\ Invest it with tJ·e fxe·hn .. cohe!-\H>ll that 1111){' ht l'P~Ult. 1'1 octu1 ·,1 1s l1ght comedy In the , exh 1 b 1 t~J as Irene m M'. Ma\ G e~~ In <t sense. ho\il·evel', this editorial is al- 'radition of. ThP Thin !\>Ian and rr .. ~. Powl'!l 1s as su~v~ andn qu~et . Mr. DeNls Gues to T<~wn and un- I as ever and· turns in a wholly go d mo~t Uncalled fm·. The expenence of past like ma?y of the cop1es of those 1 piece a> nodfrey. Which may al~o \'L'<tl's has .shml.'n that the sophomores will \XPP!t ~ 1 ? 1 s lives_ up to ~he tradJ·: b,. ~a1d of the rest of the cast. • t10n ann adds a little to 1t. A!! in all Mv Man G dfr . not t Ul\ll out fol' <t scrap and that the fl'osh \';~!;a~m ~>~well as a \~'orgotten 1 sents a typ~ of .humor~ m:fu::P~:t I b • . . Man I< ltvmg on a ctty dump' tooli ·h · t' · · t k' dl. · } come 011 \' ecau~e thev thwk 1t IetiUII'e(] \ h nCar· 1 L b ·d th · I ~ .. >a 111 C_.'>e In y that 1s too , • · v e o e om ar as . e er- rare m the CinPma. Once we had rat1c dau~ht•·r of wealth <latm\ l11m no ~uch comedy and only in the as spmls m .a ~cavenger hunt after I past four yPars has it appeaJl!d in And at- Other Ce>llec;Jes .. Nl<:·w YORK CITY public s<:hools, probably includ- ing thl' Cit\· C\o!lrgp will h•·:in in.strudion in table manners this year. To ll!\~i><t and prorr.ote facuHy tesearch, SM'lTH COLLEGE has eng:aged a teeear·ch aide to a~~i•t tac- Hity nH·m·b~:•J..; ·by Jt·fc:·retlt..t• v.u1k, t:ht•t:klnb ut.anu- >'Cl'lpt\ anc! Wl>t·lting on thf' pt<'J>tuation of paper::; for publication. Pr·r~ident C. S. WtiUams of LEHIGH iti th~ first !:,.,.,; .,f tr.at ntlll·~·· s-inr:e 1117'9 to teach a c!aos. HP wtll hnad!P pari r f a gr~llltlate couJsP Ill st1 uctu, a: foun•!att<>ll·' in the ~n~lneering department. hPr ·bt•·J. Gal. Patnck. ,;putled by I eve·r.inctea. sing volume M •t \Vealth, fails to bt·ing him in as her mightily. · ' ay 1 wax pl'ize. After an em ban assing scene a.t the party in which Powell be-'1[~ I tales the idle rich and also betrays I ~~ to the audience that he is a man of SECRET SERVICE ultu• e. ht bl'cum<\ butte! to the I family of Bullocks, which include~: I Alice Brady and li:ugene Pallette I R It T · \\ prn ents to the two young ladies., oos~ve riumphs Again r maid and an id'le musician pro- Republican readers of the Con- I·\'>:•· of :.!r>. Bulluck. · ' t·~rdy wer£> fil.led ~ith consternation It i·· mim<>diately apparent that I a the gathe.nng Impetus of the Su- .\fiss Lombar·d is falling in luve with Pt\rdsalesman s cause as Democratic Powell, that },liss Patrick will 5 u. ent headquarters mustered humiliate hirn for pushmg her into 1 thetr fr>rees. Thousands Cheered! nn '\h h<'ap and that the v.hole F'LASH'! Managing Editor Cohen family is d£>1ightfully crazy with lof the Concordy> plastered party the perplexed exce:ption of Mr. propaganda on the front page to Bullock. The situations and dia- place headmen Graves, Mulvey, lng-tl<' at·i~ing f: om thi~ \ct-up carry Reeve-' 1 nephe~ of Vice-Admiral L::~l\'SRSJTY O·F VH:RMONT advocates of the I \u.t the spirit in whi<'h it was ron- ~e~es), Cum~mgs l_no relation to ,-t l£·nuou,; life have JUot be~un the construction uf a cPJved delightfully. Each membex · · C.>. Homkel, Sexgle I Have one new rabin fill the OutJng t:lub there. of the family follows his own bent, ~n mel, Ferguso~, Barford, and the (\The Old Maid\ produced at the Capital Theatre, Albany, by Jack Stern. Written by Zoe Akins. Octo- ber 5th through lOth. Matinees- Wednesday and Saturday.) Acting is great when the ax tist causes the character she is portray- ing to rise above the plot and set- ting of the play so that her joy and sorrow-her every feeling-find sympathy and understanding in one's heart. Sucl1 acting Violet Heming and Mabel Taliaferro did tonight in the· \Old Maid.\ As. the two cousins whose mutual jealousy. misunde1standing, kind- ness, an..: ;ove form the ~ubstance of Zoe Akin's Pulitzer Prize play, they gave a performance which carried their audience away-away into the world of a hundred years ago where harsh Victorian morals left a woman. who slipped an \Old Maid.\ Which !>rings us to the play itself which received the Pulitzer Prize. A pla.y is great when its characters are pt·esented in such a manner that they Win the audience's love and sympathy-and also-its im- personal understanding. All serious plays are concerned, it seems, with an individual's transgression of the moral law. But the great majority of them creak badly in their telling of the story. Either they are so wordy and philosophical that they lack all the elements of drama or tt:tey are so strongly emotional and VIOlent that they seem grotesque and unx eal. But \The Old Maid\ is n:ithe; of these. It is a story of the V1ctonan period and as such its characters. its action, and its dia- logue are restrained, neither wordy nor violent. A •>f'rirs of four non-partisan forums on current coachc~ and players. .·ampaig.n issues for s'tucf.ents and faculty memlJers l 11 past y ea1·s ~nthusias111 pi actice has ,..tat to ur, OctubH 20 at BENNINGTON CULLE-Gl!;. minor bed·larn ensues and an old _oughty Cohen himself tn the pub- collPge friend of Gt,dfrey, the new hc*•e;e: The New Deal marches· on! butler, turns up, recognizes him. R Ftnal !Three <3> Star> .... With his help Godfrey regenerates umoted that \the party\ won't himself fl'Om the low position into forget loyal sons on grad day. which hf' as a m£>nrber of an old Pl:;;;~ent bure?-u sighs relief, Boston family had fallen, rescues .Fma~ IFxve 15) Star) .... his companions of the dump heap BUT rmagme embarrassment to and btings secu1 ity and some sanity find that thxs was ALL for the Yet the pla:y tells its unhappy story effectively, sympathetically and beautifully. Charlotte Lovell (played by Mabel Taliaferro) has an illegitimate child, by the man whom her cousin <Delia Lovell played by Violet Heming) spurned: to marry for money. When Delia learns this fact she stops Char- lotte's marriage to another man so great is ~:r anger and jealousy. Then reahzmg the enormity of her ~~lfishness, that \All of us have the ltght to live, to love and to die the way we ~hoose:·. she spends the rest of her hfe bnnging up the .child. Charlotte, prevented from. marrying by her cousin's jealous act, lives to be an embittered old maid who can not ~wn the ]}arentage of her child ~nd Is forced to see the child scotn . . . been held in the gymnasium the night be- A J!:<ycholcgi< al ju'bllec is being celebraterl at COL- fore a g-ame. There under the coaching of GATE t:N!VeHSITY. when psychology has now b<'en taught for :>0 years. th<' Y Cabin<>t the \tudent body gave a pn.>- , • , view of theit· spit·it. and then marched A system of student l!ealth a.nd ac<!ldent Insura.nce h d · £>merges from th.e exJ>erimental stage this yeat· at thmugh the streets of Sc enecta Y to giVe VASSAR COLLEGE:, J>roviding a maximum liability her inhabitants a free lecture chorus. Gen- of $500. T'he anrrua::l premium Is $15. covering the policy-holder .for the full 12 months. whether on or erally the fe!Jows sustained their enthusiasm off the campus. until overcome by Im~yngitis around about the end of the third quarter, and renewed it again just before the final whistle. We should go further than this, thoug-h. Start- ing today everyone should make certain that Limitati<:ms on the a.llloun t of money that a fra: tern.Jty may spenil on l'll.shing- a freshman were pla.ced on MASSACHUSETTS STATE: COLLEGE chaptets this wpel!. The rules just forrrwlated by the InteJ·- fraternity Council alst> s<!hedule open house days, closed and open tushihg days. rluring which none of the fraternities can spend money- on fxeshmen. to the Bullocks. straw vote. Made with an artful simplicity, Box ~l!'OIU~ My Man Godfrey rises above the ~uir\'r 1 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · banality of most light comedy by f'~m~tm; · · · · · · · · · · · · · its engagement with a real pro.blem Graves .. , :::::::::::: treated as such. Though this pro.b- Reeves ............... . lem, that of Godfrey's regeneratiorr, Honlkel .... : ........ . has an impro-bable basis, the serio- AndF'~I~e b8Jb1es comic treatment afforded it allows sel!J~son · · · · · · · · the director and script writer to C'ohen :::::: : ::::: Age 20 .. 20 .. 20 \ 20 \ 20· .. 20 19 19 19 present believable characiers with It af)pears that MEN wond~rfully humorous behavior. read the Dailies for polit~~st still Aoctmg honors must 'be evenly Oh Graves where i th · . dlstrbiuted!, for each player has Oh Cohen 'where th s t·y VIctory, that !'are quality of inevitability in Es Es & B~es mg. er and love another woman better, Out of such a plot Zoe Akins has created a dramatic masterpiece wh?se characters, battling against th_elr own selfishness and jealousy, ~m a lasting place in the au- dience's heart. R.B:.F. i I i. I I I 26 to 0 ByHt Gar Genevans~ To Pili King 81 Ca~Ties Ba Line i11 ~ The Hobar1 took the cr e• ministering l o-f the year a! lsfied a larJ homecoming the Garnet b employing a Union failed t. cal points, an of 26 .points tc for the third 1 Taking adva tunity, the Ge1 at the outset , their scoring own fifteen-ya prised both tE carrying the I play to the Miller, Wright running the 1: advanced to from which po carried it ove ce>nverted for 1 Union It was after Union made il push over a c was carried to Bill Thomas. ' netted a first penalty agairu fine runs by J the ball was n 3(}-yard line. reeled off 20 sc velous ex:hibiti running and t on the four-ya1 against Middle Garnet offense when four pla:y the heavy Hol Or-ange took 0' and kicked to the quarter enc There was nc second quarter exchanges of kickers, Brown Hoba-rt execute in whi<lh the h ally after a nic twenty yards t for- naught, ho• men held and f Union receive the intermissio1 brought the b twenty-yard s Orange line he netted the visitc bart then un> game, which prOOltable end 1 ball to the Uni ceded by fine in standing up on that point to b1 The extra point The next tw. counted for in the Union defen ably. HO<bart inl Brown on the U: position Ferris. mor e running 1 six points and goal. Immediat• kickoff, a compl was fumbled an bart. A.r·mstrQn~ heave by Miller as he jumped li ball from the U back. The final 1 'I'he game, the Hobart's scoring much closer t.ll cates. Union ne1 till the closing on the whole be did against Mic ing weakness 1 inability to tack Miller, King, F did a commenda bart rooters, and broken field 1 un1 ability to start : was pretty to w ThollUIS 4 Thomas and cally all of the Union, and when in the final fe1 ce!ved a loud crowd. Amazon, by a bad knee S()me excellent b Dennett, playing in. ,place of Jack creditable perfor Nitahman and as they were by lastic requireme1 raly on the sophc men·ts, and eve played good ball Mulcare at gua end showed gre1 certainly be used Swarthmore is and will be met nia t()wn, If f: Rigg's hip and 1 normal, Amazoi! shaJ>e, and DentJ full usage, Union

col- re- of s has of by poli- pened any of of a feel t the of man, indi- is his col- for to bum- now, wers the the of the the es- set- and find in olet did lay, i I i . I I I so or is its ia- dy py Jy, eli so er d. r. y, THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1936 26 to 0 Defeat Three have one scalp under its belt be- :;===============;'ill Intl'Rrnw·al Games day noon at 12 o'clock, October I Pledge Notice By Hobart Gives Garnet 2nd Loss fore returning to the home field on II o h I Oct. 17. INTRAMURAL$ Delta Chi v~. Winner, Phi Sigma 1 t . , · Kappa-Alpha Delta Phi, .Alexan- • Th D 1 Ch' th Summaries: · der Field. TUESDAY --100-yd. dash, 60-yd.J eta eta 1 announces e high hurdles, javelin, pole vault. additi<mal pledging of Stephen Lao- UNION HOBART I<appa Sigma vs. Neut1aJ:;, Alexan- 'VEDNESDAY-~ 2 0-yd. dasll, l20- ing, '40, of Albant Genevans Start Scoring Early To Pile Up Imposing Score LE: F A 1 The titst round of the fall tennis cler Field. ' - ~ LT G:f~h~ij' ···· · ·· ·· ·· ·· · Y~~~ tou1nament must be completed by Kappa Nu vs. Winner, Sigma Phi· yd.l.ow hurdles, discus, broad jump. R t d C -F ..... '. . . . . . . . .. . . Wednesday, October 7. No flll ther THURSDAY- '-'~·mile relav ( 4 epea e . OUl'S€ ees LG Baker Babcock }:Jhi Gamma Delta, Council Field. ' C B t \ \\ \· .... ·B· · · time will be given for this 1 ound. men, 220 yds. eachJ, shot put, high ar on ·............ enJamm E' f Yesterday';,3 touch football results RG Potts , ............. Nanaway ot· eits will deduct many points are as follow~: jump. 1 Bills for repeated course fees are RT Ladd ............... Lawrence f_r*~~/~~~sr~~;.e~~~~a~r~~~~k meet Psi Upsilon, 2 1:1; Delta Upsilon, o. ---o 1 no\; be in~ made out in the Co~ p- RE Campbell · · · · ·······.Dickson · · · South College, 60; Phi Delta The- Chillrud Resumes Classes 1 trol ers 0 i.ce and will be paya le King Surprises Stand QB Brown .......... , ..... Wright ~re m. yo~~ respectlv_e mtr~n~u~aJ \._a,..G' <Won by_ South College). on Tuesday, O<:tober 13. ~~ ~~nnett ·\ ...... · .... -~~ 1 1 · 1 ris ;:;sets b~n in b~ ~~ru~~~;~·ctob~/'~~~ Delta Phi, 23; Lambda Chi Alpha, 1-;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ omas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I er No post entries will be accepted. At 0. Monday, Oct. 5-Dr. FrankHn C. IIi FB Amazon ................. King least six men must enter and com- Kappa Nu, 7; North College, 0. Chillrud, recovered from a recent I' Score by periods: pete to gain entrance points for any operation for hemorrhoids, met his Cai'l'ies Ball to Fifty Yard Line in First Minute Union ............... 0 0 0 0-- 0 one group. after.noon class in Psychology today i Hobart .............. 7 0 6 13-26 Fa.lJ Track Meet and will resume his full teaching Interested in Schenectady [;rJterested in UNION Of Play Touchdowns: Armstrong, Bowl- ing, King, Miller. Points after touchdown: King, The Hobart Orange and Purple Miller. took the credit Saturday for ad- Referee-E. J. Kearney, Syra- ministering Union's second defeat cuse; upmire, B. c. Cubbage, Penn o-f the year as they completely sat- State; linesman, Emmet Carrol, St. !sfied a large and enthusiastic Bonaventure. homecoming crowd by outplaying TOUCH FOOTBALL GAMES \Vednesday, October 7 Divisional Games ~ivil Engineering vs. Electrical En- gineering, Council Field. Science vs. Social Studies Juni01s, Cuuncil Field. the Garnet by a narrow margin, Substitutes- Hobart: Schneider, employing a scoring punch which Potte., Harter, Moore, Courage, · Ferk, Armst1·ong, Broadhurst, Bowl- Intramural Games Union failed to produce at the criti~ cal points, and running up a total ing, Cullen, Barner, Silver. Union- Phi Sigma Delta vs. Souht College of 26 .points to blank the Dutchmen Lewis, Angle, Mulcare, Ladue, Irish, Alexandei- Field. for the third straight year. Haskell, Hughes. I Psi Upsilon vs. Delta Phi, Alexan- Talting advantage of every oppor- de1· Field. tunity, the Genevans started a11;nost Fencing· Notice Thursday, October 8 at the outset of the game to begin their scoring a·ctivities. From his Divisional Games So<'ial Studies Seniors vs. Language and Literature, Council Field. Eligibility-No member of the varsity or frosh football and cross- country teams are eligible to com- pete. Students who have received U or an aUa are also ineligible. The meet wil! be held on October 13th, 14th and 15th, beginning at 4 P. M. sharp. Rain or shine. A group must compete at least 6 men program beginning tomorrow morn- ing. FOR SALE 1930 PONTIAC 5 Passenger Equipped with Radio MAURICE B. GRAUBART Tlze Jay Street Jeweler 166 JAY STREET lf~atch m1d Jczrelr)' Repairing a SpecialtJ' PARKER PENS to obtain the 40 entrance points. Sixty additi<>nal points will be di~- ; 1 tributed as set forth in the intra- : :~·~----iiii~iiii~!!!!!!~~;!~~i~~ mural 1·ules. A cup will be given 1 . the winner. Please enter only those All!lli.m!!J Samuel Carpenter 21 Washington St. STARTING THURSDAY! On the Stage GIRLS! COMEDY! SONGS! own fifteen-yard stripe, King sur- prised both teams and himself by carrying the ball on Hobart's first play to the 50-yard line. Then, Miller, Wright and King alternately running the ball, the pigskin was advanced to the seven-yard line, from which point of vantage Miller carried it over standing up. King converted for the extra point. Mr. Von Forstmyer will meet all those who have had previous train- ing in fencing at 2:30, F'riday, Oct. 9, in the fencing room of the gym- nasium. Since only a Jlmited time is available no instruction can be given freshmen or anyone who has not fenced before. All members of last year's team are expected to be there promptly for the first pr ac- tice or to communicate directly with Mr. Von Forstmyer. who are going to compete and des- ignate the events in which they will pat ticipate. Students are lim- 1 ited to three events, only two of I which can be running or field events. The relay will not count as an event. Entries will close Satur- j PINE GROVE DAIRY, Inca 1 N. T. G. REVUE A Broadway Stage Show Presented by New York's King of Night Life ... Nils T. Granlund Union Shows Punch It was after this first score that Union made its greatest threat to push over a counter. The kickoff was carried to the Union forty by Bill Thomas. Three running plays netted a first down, and alter a penalty against Hobart and some fine runs by Brown and Thomas, the ball was moved to the Hobart a(}..yard line. Ernie Brown then reeled off 20 some yards in a mar- velous exhibition of broken field mnning and the ball was Union's on the four-yard line. But there, as against Middlebury last week, the Garnet offense was thwarted, and when four plays failed to penetrate the heavy Hobart front wall, the Orange took over on its own four, and kicked to safety to the 45 as the quarter ended, There was no scoring done in the second quarter, play being chiefly exchanges of punts by the two kickers, Brown a.nd King. However, Hobart executed one beautiful play in whi<lh the ball was tossed later- any after a nice run to add about twenty yards to the gain. It went for naught, howeve1·, as the Dutch- men held and forced King to punt. Union received the kickoff after the intermission, and in five plays brought the ball to the Hobart twenty-yard stripe. Again the Orange line held, and four plays netted the visitors not an inch. Ho- bart then unveiled an over head game, which coupled with two prOOJ.table end sweeps, brought the ball to the Union 9. Bowling, pre- ceded by fine interference, ran over standing up on the first play fl'Om that point to bring the score to 13 . The extra point was missed. The next two scores were ac- counted for in the final period as the Union defense sagged consider- ably. Hobart intercepted a pass by 1 . Brown on the Union 40, from which position Ferris ran to the 20. Two more running plays produced the I six points and Ring kicked the g<Jal. Immediately following this kickoff, a completed pass by Union was fumbled and recovered by Ho- bart. At·m.stro,ng then took a long heave by Miller into the end zone as he jumped high and snared the ball from the Union defensive half- back. The final point was low. 'I'he game, though dominated by Hobart's scoring, was, nevertheless, much closer than the score indi- cates. Union never stopped fighting ti!l the closing whistle and played on the whole better ball than they did against Middlebury. The glar- ing weakness was again, the in- inability to tackle the elusive backs. Miller, King, Ferris, and Wright did a commendable job for the Ho- bart rooters, and their exhibition of I broken field running, blocking, and 1 ability to start and stop on a dime was pretty to watch. I Thomas Gets Ovation ! Thomas and Brown did practi- cally all of the ball Jugging fm Union, and when Billy left the field in the final few minutes, he re- ceived a loud ovation from the crowd. Amazon, hindered as he was by a bad knee, nevertheless did some excellent blocking, and Tyler Dennett, playing his first full game in. ,place of Jack Smith, turned in a creditable performance. Nitchman and Nelson, hindeied as they were by injuries and scho- lastic requirements, were forced to rely on the sophomores for replace- men-ts, and every one of them played good ball. Baker at guard, Ml.ilcare at guard, and Lewis at end showed great spirit and will certainly be used In games to come. Swarthmore is the next opponent, and will be met in the Pennsylva- nia town. If Smith's leg heals, Rigg's hip and arm come back to normal, Amazon's knee stays in shape, and Dennett's hand regains full usage, Union sh<>uld be able to • FRESH AIR-EXERCISE -SUNSHINE -~~light smoke I Youwholiketota kecare of yourselves, but who love life's pleasures, too- there's a ciga- rette just made for you. A smoke of fine rich· tasting tobacco- but gentle with you, too. A light smoke. A Lucky! Cop;rrlabt 1986, Tho American Tobacco Company 118 S. FERRY ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. ON THE SCREEN: The Gal VVho Toolt Mr. \Deeds\ to Town! JEAN ARTHUR and JOEL McCREA in \ADVENTURE IN MANHATTAN\ • - It's a Liqht Smoke! ... -· ... .::: .... OF RICH, A smoke that treats you right! You who go in for sports .. _ and you who don't ... you both have reason to treat your- selves well ... to reach for a fight J!noke ... a Lucky. For a light smoke is gentle with you. Easy on you when you inhale. Kind to your throat. And since your Lucky ... a light smoke ... is made from the choicest center-leaf tobacco, it tastes good, too, even when you smoke all day long. So, for a smoke that treats you right it's wise to reach for a Lucky. And remember, the proteaion ofthe famous \Toasting\ process is enjoyed only by those who smoke Luckies. ~'SWEEPSTAKES\ FUSK! Over 1760 tons of paper bought so far! Since the start of Yow Lucky Strike \Sweepstakes·· more than 1760 tons of paper have been p-urchased to print \Sweepstakes\ entry cards. Just think of it! That's enough paper to fill about 88 freight cars. Have you entered yet? Have you won yorir delicious Lucky Strikes? Tune in \Your Hit Parade\- Wednesday and Saturday evenings. Listen, judge, and compare thetunes-tllen try Your Lucky Strike \Sweepstakes.\ And if you're not already smoking Lucl.ies, buy a pack to· day and try them, too. Maybeyou've been missing something. You'll appreciate the advantages of Lucldes- a Light Smoke of rich, ripe-bodied tobacco.

Four \Who's Who\ Lists Eleven of Faculty New Volume Akio lucludes Eight Others Ji'rmn Schenectady The l'ecently issued 1936~7 edi- tion of \\Vho's Who In .America\ adds the name of Dr. Hul'old .A. Larru.bee, professor of philosophy, to the list of ten members of the Union faculty and of eight othet persons living in Sehenectad:y men- tioned in the directory, who may be recltoned among the Union \fam- ily.\ The muues of the facultr mem- bers are: Professors Ernst J. Berg, Geut\<' H. Dunton, Edwanl Ellery, Charles F. F'. Garis, Frederick \\'. Grover, Burges Johnson, Gt•t>rg!' D. Kcllo\\ Hat old A. Lart ubee, John L. hl:i;;h, Peter L ·wold, ami Presi- dE'nt Dixon Hyan Fox. Amon\ the lecturets, htHwrary fellow~ ~nd membt'rs of the faculty families Ii\·ing in Schenect<td~· are Dr. \\', D. Coolidge, vV. L. R. Em· met, .A. l\1. Hull, I r\'ing Lartgmuir, Profe,;~or Emeritus of Geology J.m1e,; H. Stoller, Dr. \\'illis R. \Vhitnc'\\ and l\lrs. Annina P. Dan- ton utld .hlrs. Constance F. Vi'. John:;on. l\lanr others among the honoran• fellows and uu.te~.; ltvtng in otht•t.· >t>ctions of t.ht> coun tty ate inl'luded also. In the new edition of the •·\Vho's \Vho'' are mentioned f<Jr tb.e first titnt' Albert Einstein and :Shirley Tt>nti>lt•. !<'ted Astait•e and Ginge1 Rogers have not yet. made the \l'!l.dt>. ::\1 ThtJ>t~ nz tl \.l\\t.\r 31,000 nan1es in thi::; 1.s~Ut\ \\'Jth about on~ notabie pc•t son for each 1,tlLl\l of the popul:1· tion. On thts bas1s the dty of S..:ht'l1t'.ctndv wtth a populat.ton c1f about llltl,tll)tl shc1uld h<n-e about ::!5 inhab.itants Ji,t..>d in \\\'.ho\:; \\\hu.·· But it actually has 39, of wh1ch 20 an' runne~ted wllh the colle~e. In the tlt>l\\ ed1tk1n Dr. Fox ha:; the g rc~a.test number of lirae:;, _ 4\1 d,•ulmg w1th lu.; cat eer. Dr. Dunton is Bt~t..~,lln~i with 40 lint.~s. F3u·z:;et\ John:;,,n ts t:hu·d wlth 33 nnt! Dr. \\'olJ h>UI t h wtt.h :.hl. DL Lar.rabe<', on hl:i\ tit·,t, telltl Y, IS ltlt:'lllliird Ill 27 line·~. 11 lu:c• D: ;_ Gi<'\ t'!\ and Kel· logg ·have :lJ each. -- o---- County Alumni Hold First Regular ::\Ieeting of 1' ear C\lund:t-.), Oet.obt•r .1' The :5.-llent>~·­ tadv (\lunty Alunlill :\::-..:-.t.JCl~ttlvn ht•l~l. 1ts fll>\t n-~,:ul:u nwnthl)\ meN- tn;:; :n,,l dtnnt•r at Hale HulA~<' tl>- n~>.:ht i)lnnt~r \\\3~- ~f'r\T'd at ~ t\ll.).\ \\\lth ~Lng·tn ~ bt\'t'vt•t\n l't'u;·:-t\'.s. by tt1e Un- h'n' (\;!:t:~,., qua: tet Ft<l•'\Y;nh tt:t.~ n1ca.L ·tht~ :t.:-~t'l\tn.t:tl!~ Lt•:d .l :-bl\~l t nted .. m.:;, it'd by J. L-e~llt' Sdtool- ~·raft, ~•t\t.'old<'nt <'f tlw bvd)., Tht> holde1-,; of tilt• two :;c•.holar:slups of $.3~)1· t\~h~h. ~l\\t'n th;..:- .)l'o1l b) tlh.' a:-:~~\''H1.th'-~ \Vt\'.rt:• ae.r-;.ru:~ ... ~f.d anJ lntr~·dth'Pt~ T~t.·y a: P :-...I\t._. :~ L. Rrt'ekn:vt\:· \~f ~- ... ,ba. ar:J \\-t!!1~1n1 l\.;. c;\ ... rn·de~·, cf B.chent>-\'tad~ Thr- 1 t.\vc.' , .... t.la.cllt\\~ t.'f \·arsttr fnl;.'tb-.-l.;l Nc•l\''n Xitchm:cw and \'l.':<ltt•t •·t)ukt> ~ Nei~llfl '' ~~.r~· '\~a l!t\\'1.l llP\'D tt:~ ~\Y a t.t'\11\- \\ lltd:-' Both appt~.t!Pd f-. .. .ll· l;h.,lt\\ ~t'II n. nt. the- ~tHllt_l~, nnd a.:--~t·r te-'\i t_!-..:..~t \\ lth t'r'-'~·cr ::ot.appl 1 rt t.ht> tt•mu had tht> ~:.uff :Ur. ~h(h...'icla\ft a.dd~d ht~ appt~al to tht.•u ~, ;;:.a)·tn:::;. ··1 f t..\'ach c. 1 ne of us \Vvul . ..i ,lt~,.'t' lll !t.!~l~ \\.:_~t..:b pt.:..\l't.lCt' ;! \\;._.d.~ ! .. ~...~.~~~ -~ h·t Outing Club Prepares New Cabin for Season Su.nd:l.) • Ot·t. -t--Tl\, ad1:n~ b.t<-ii::• ~p\.):t.n.i tnt!~~! b~ t.hr t'if?\.t\\~1 o:1~\1I_?g CL.:..b a~i:tub,t•::-- wh~.' Wt'I\H ~;i.., ~~.•rth C£ et-..k tht~ \\t't'k·t:,r.d !n it!:-J..lt'.c:t th~ fl.t'W ~:.:.~~·an nr:.tt--:1 t') tt:t' l:i~t.\l ~t.nti. tu L:.i~· tn :1.. :-:.h.'r~ Pt- '\V\'t.\'Xi fl,.r t~e- ~\\\·lntt·:- ''_~·!t• .dl .. ~T.~!~·~£.li:.tt\e .•. ~~~:-\\-·t:r\ t.~ l' :ht q~it::-·,~~ n ~'\\..:-h.t.U tl) ~ ... J.l.I n.t..n .. , bt\'ar~~ ~-L\)nt you ~-t)t. nH:.lt.'h WU'\.'tl eht,ppeJ ·~ ·· Fr1:'\..i \V):aH~ f\at:ui:y a .. d\-:~~f' of; the Ouung Clul>. cul dt>Wn ·,e-..·en; tr~P:-. iunl~~--if and l-tht•:r-:-· \'! t~.P ~ ~!tHJp d:d an P-F!'d ·~n~t)U!lt <_)! \\\\rll-r·k : -r,\~tl ft'(\ .. ~~~·ut ~a··w~ sn'\i thre~ axes; were k·ept b-u;;:y mt'~t of' today m an : t'ft~(':t t.t.' i1:·~t,('Utt~ W.!f'lf.t'\t· f\~t'.; I KLtld~-d~~·, t~\t.'nln.& t\~:t'' ;:rt'UP r.Jir·d j frt~!n !ht• ~~-'i!nn ... h.l\\ n. t.n \Tht:~~~t•.n!h: Lati~~ ~' n~t,,.lnh~:ht AI te~· .i .!1!t'tft:n- ; rn.1l'.Uh· ·-=-.!:.'a:\..:h the F\! !UH'-.'-:>e ·Tra!:·\\ tt.• tht> i.tht- .\,i:i::- f.~_n.Jnd An r x.:E:?l:ent t-·t.:h~.) wa' .. ·: .. :)unt.i ~~: fht\\ lake- whh'h qu<te> fa~nnat.-J F1t'.J W:-::~t_t _V!\:d ~t.:.t .. L~ti.._-:~ t'f th~ tnp lOCfUtlt:a t.he four p~>und;. <>f J-•m '~\'n<\um~ by :we> men .. Democrats ( Conhn ut>d fn'm Page 1! . dub mrll bt> held Wedne\d~y m,-;ht i in, the Old Cba.pt>l. wht>r<> the}- w-tH ! oo sddre$,~ by C<'Unty Dem,··cratt<~ ~ Ch:llnnan :M.:!thias PV!\n;..•h. Jrr, orl' rome oth€r impor·iant man :I'll the p .. :uty. This wiU b.> fol!~wE.'d dun~·l' the c\Oming 'w~ks Wttn oper. a\: bates between Re-publican ana .. Demo.crntic sympathizers ill t.he I faculty and student body, an: ad- dress bs Owen Begley, ass.istan:t at- 1 torney gener-al of ille state, and tf 1 p..\'S..'<iblt> a. debate N!tween. Repre- j s<>ntath-e Frank Crowther a::nd: Dr., Cummins, who oppose each C~>ther ! for the CQn,\\l\e..'-'<i.onal seat. l THE CONCORDIEN:SIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1936 Professor Can·ies On In Spite of Many Obstacles Gods and men united last Thursday afternoon in atl effort to pre\'ent Professor Edward S. C. Smith from spreading geo- logical gospel. The gods had tht>ir inning first when too much Jupiter Pluvius necessi- tated the postponement of a scheduled field trip. Thereupon the Professor submitted a lec- ture on \Rock \Veathering\ In place of the e..-.,:cursion. He had just warnted np to his subject when he noticed a freshman who, taking his clas:s t·ules too seriously perhaps, had failed to take off his dink. The prof~s:>or paused; the cap was t·emoved; and the lecture went on. But not for long. For soon there came a tapping at the door. The tapper informed Prof. Smith that hi:s car was parked in the way of another auto which was a.bout to leave park- ing at·ea in front of the geology building. Tea at President's Home Attracts Manv Freshmen Chatting o\'er teacups and sing- mg- college songs, approximately nne hundrt>d and fifty members of the fteshmen class became bette1 at'quainted with each other Sunday afternoon at a tea given in their honor by President and Mrs. Dixon Ryan Fox in the president's home. Dropping in at \'arious times be- tween the hom·s of four and sL-.. the ft eshmen wet·e shown about the houst> and gat:den by tht>ir host and lwste.;s. Many gatheted informally about the piano and displayed an <'Xcclle.nt kno\vledge of the college songs while other:; indulged in the :ut of light .-onvctsation. Mt:>. Peter I. \'old Mrs. George D. Kellogg, Mrs. James v,·. Ma\·or. and .Mrs. Harrison C. Coffin assist- ed Mrs. Fox at the tea table. FOR SALE 1931 Chevrolet Convertible Good C-ondition $100 Phone 2-!822 hesterfield CALENDAR Tonight 7:30- Gavel Clu-b Meeting, Silli- man Hall. Ton101•row 10:00 a.m.~Daily Ass e ~ b I y, Richa1d C. Snyder, 37, Me- morial Chapel. 7 :3o p.m. --Cooperative System Meeting, 'Fraternity .Stew· ard:S, Silliman Hall. 7:30 p.m.-Amet'lcan St~dent Union Meeting, Silliman Hall. Thmsday 10:00 a.m.~Daily Assembly, Mr. Harry J. Linton, Asso- ciate Superintendent of Schools, :Jiemorial Chapel. Classical Club Meeting The Clussical Club will hold its fitst mee.ting- of the year on Tues· day evening, October 13, _at Dr. K~l!O\\\\'S house. Dr. HatTISO!l c.l Coffi;,\chairman of the Division of Lang11age and Literature, will ad- dress the group. His topic will be \RO!nan Remains in Bx·itain.\ The meeting wll! start at 7:30. $·$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $· A one dollar fee will be required from all students who are allowed to take: mak:e up tests under the recrulations announced last Friday in\\ The Concordiensis by Dean Charles F. F. Garis. The monies thus ac.cumulated will be deposited iil a fund -for the library. Pfaorial Possibilities A bound .on Union's Campus Pictures Printed, Developed, :Oeli vered-24 Hour Service Lt·ave Your Photographs in Grenz Box in A/awe of Silliman Hall Community Photo Shop l'fillliJUS ( Ya.ll!) Rep,, H. A. Enzer GUERRA PHARMACY 600 Union St., c:or. Barrett Phone 2-9419 GAZETTE PRESS PRINTING ... tAey re mi/de, they have a more pleasing taste and aroma • CoopeJ Comrr Draw: Reg·ul~ VoL LX., 1 TwoN4 Of Carr C()mei M.hiam Do Will Be Hale l First T1 Diredor of Will Sele Actoi\l First tryou banks' openir \Squaring Th• tonight in t Washburn H: vision. of Mis: ducing direct< bins. She an late this afte who J:Jas beer: the second a1 given this ye organization. Mitch He is Earle Broad way dire and playwri. ..Lights of Lc Be will direct .. Winterset\ a comedy-drama Rain,\ Miss Doyle < visit the camp ing introduce< rounciings witJ Mountebanks tonight in Hal~ will take the Carroll who i: work at Colu lea ve-of-absenc Tonight's tr~ all Union stl. supervised by assistance of ti tee. The Mou.z issued a blanll women interes tryouts tonigh by Miss Doyle roles in ·'Squar invitation mar: from tQe forr: sonal selection Fen: The women's .principals. Lt: pretty, childlik, to indulge in !nine clothes; Communist of • studious eyes, despite her att charms under < n.ish attire, a b hair, a loos, sweater and m: The play itse: ing housing c Russia. Two Yl ing a single find themselv wives and a P• Two apartmen: by a white ch:; noor. One apa tContinu1 Reporte Hannt If you want you want to classes of Cni want to see so and dusty and then go up to t college li-brary h<>urs. A repor afternoon and dead and buri• got out. The first th across after through the tn several stacks that had long s lli\as an old ma the original se Eastwood, Scot erend Robert VI Tbe writing in hand and the and gr.imy witl The reporter way around the a small miniah and his disciple! per.\ Christ is of the table in is on his right v in his arms, cr:ime. 'l'he rest sitting in vario1

ad- will be The equired the Friday Dean monies Enzer Cooperative Committee Draws Up RegulatiQns VoL .LX., No-. 6 Two New Directors Of CarriiJllS Theatre Come Here Tonight M.iliam Doyle, Earle Mitchell Will Be Entertained at Hale H()use Dinner First Tryoats Tonight Director of \Squaring Circle\ Will Select 1\len, Women Actors I or Comedy • UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1936 c~ ncordiensis Haven For Frt3shmen's Victim A. terrified little sophomore came running in to The Concordi- ensis office Wednesday night to demand pl'otection from a band of freshmen who had inflicted sotne of their infantile tortures on him in the Middlesection of · South College-better known as the Freshman Kennels. Democrats Answer Landon Manifesto; Sponsors of Republican Club Named Cooperative Organizer . Six Seniors Revealed at Head Of Mysterious Pro-G. 0. P. Organization The names of the students behind the Union College Landon Club, whose sponsorship is a mystery almost a week old, were revealed this morning after ex.tensive ques- tioning by The Concordiensis. Six seniors head the new group, which claims a total of 30 members. The Hix seniors are Chazles H. Grauman, Robert A. Willsey, Hen- ry B. Witbeck, Franklyn F. Con- verse, Ernest C. Brown and Francis E. Townley. Old-Fashioned Verbal Vitriol Mat·ks Roosevelt Group Bulletin Vitr·iol flowed freely on the l.:niun campus this afternoon as the \Roo::;evelt for Reelection\ faction came back with an old-fashioned political manifesto in answer to l{epubhcan statements posted on the bulletin boards ear lied in the week. The statement, in pnnted form wi 11 be dist1 ibuted to fratern- Ity houses and do1·mitozies late this afternoon. Democratic defendet·s worked ROBERT D. EVEREST themselves into a verbal frenzy a:; ___ -~-- Doyle Holds l\Iountebanks Tryouts Tonight PRICE FIVE CENTS Tentative Rules Aldopted for ~~op System of Buying Begin Serious Study of Plan For Fratemity House Purchasing Intend to Succeed Everest Stresses ImpOl'tance Of Impressing Merchants With Sincerity First tryouts for the Mounte- banks' opening play of the year \Squaring The Circle\ will be held tonight in the little theatre in Washburn Hall under the super- vision. of Miss Miriam Doyle, pro- ducing director for Rowland Steb- bins. She arrives on the campus late this afternoon with the man who has been named director for the second and third productions given this year l>y the dramatic organization. The attack was the second serious one in. two week.s ·made by the freshmen of Middlesex upon one or more of the resi- dents of the dormitory, and add- ed further laurels to the success of t..he freshman dormitory sys• tern_ The young sophomore was saved in the n.ick of time by the appearance of the dorm proctor ASU Makes Plans To Promote Peace Dispelling suspicions that the Union College Landon Club was a 'hoax\ -because no signatures were attached to the statement posted on the bulletin 'boards Monday morning, Townley, as spokesman for th€ group, said that the clu-b desired a guarantee of student su-p- port In the way of signatures to pledge sheets ·befOI e beginning pub- lic activity. they rallied to the defense of LheiJ candidate. They did not miss any opportunity, however, to deprecate the accomplishment:; and gifts of the opposing Republican, Alfred ).lossn1an Landon. College Y Chooses Syracuse Delegates Wednesday, Oct. 7-Tentative rules for governing the proposed cooperative buying plan for frater- nities were drawn up at a meeting of the Student Stewards' Committee held in Silliman Hall tonight, chair- man Everest announced. Mitchell .to Direct He is Earle M:itchell, a veteran Broadway director, character actor, and playwright who directed \Lights of London\ this summer. He will direct Maxwell Anderson's \Winterset\ and Merton Hodge's comedy-drama \The Wind and the Rain.\ Miss Doyle and Mr. Mitchell will visit the campus th.is week-end, be- ing introduced to their new sur- rou.nciings with a dinner with the Mountebanks ex.ecutive committee tonight in Hale House at 6:30. They will take the place of Edward L. Carroll who is pursuing graduate work at Columbia. University on leave-of-absence. Tonight's tryoats will be open to all Union students and will be supervised by Mi.ss Doyle with the assistance of the ex.ecutive commit- tee. The Mounteba:nks have also issued a blanket invitation to any women interested to appear at the tryouts tonight to be interviewed by Miss Doyle for the five female roles in ·'Squaring The Circle.\ This invitation marks a slight deviation from tQe former method of per- sonal selection by the director. Female Roles The women's parts consist of two .principals. Ludmilla; a young, pretty, childlike character, inclined to indulge in provocatively fem- inine clothes; and Tonya, a girl Communist of dark {!omple:x.ion and studious eyes, definitely attractive despite her attempt to conceal her charms under drab, negligent, man- nish attire, a boy's cap over bob~ed hair, a loose, overlong skirt, sweater and mackln tosh. The play itself deals with the try- ing housing concltions in Soviet Russia. Two young bachelors shar- Ing a single room. unexpectedly find themselves burdened with wives and a poet friend of theirs. Two apartments are made of one by a white chalk mark across the noor. One apartment is luxurious (Continued 011 Page 4J Wish. to Resolve \Unwar- ranted Stigma\ Placed on Organization Wedllesday, Oct. 7.-Declaring generally that the unwarranted prejudice again.st the American Student Union because of an al- leged association with the radical political elements in society has obscured the beneficial aspects of the organization, the Union College chapter of the A...S.U. is planning a program of local peace ancl social service activity this year that is intended to resolve the stigma placed on the A...S.U. The nucleus o:f last year·s chap- ter, Leslie Paffra.th 39, Robert Saaf '39, Hyman A. E!nzer ·as, and Har- vey Li.fset '37, tnet tonight to out- line a platfor-m with three major planks. It reads as follows: StatAl :Program \First--to atte:mpt to coordinate all the peace organizations in the city, including Y.M.C.A., church, and SGcial clubs, into a nmner·ically strong peace body in this part of the state. \Second-to attempt to institute an active social service organiza- tion of lJnion students who would be willing to help in the educational as well as social welfare of young people in the poorer parts of the city who are n1>w without proper guidan~e. And. \Third--to take a part in influ- encing all legislative affairs within city, state, or country, which may in any manner- affect the living con- ditions of youth.\ For ils immediate program, the A.S.U. intends to hold its first mem- bership-drive meeting within the next week. A joint discussion meet- ing with the Skidmm::e chapter of the A.S.U. Is tentatively planned for the week of the 19th, when the Union College program will be pre- sented before the Skidn!ore organi- zation. The club will meet for the first time on Tuesday night at 7:30 o'clock in Washburn Hall. \Repub- licans and Jeffersonian Democrats are welcome to attend,\ Townley said. Pla.n Active Campaign. Plans for an active campaign to to include numerous addresses and discussions will be laid. Congressman Frank: Crowther, opposing Dr-. Earl E. Cummins for the seat in Congress for the thir- tieth district, is ex.pect ed to speak to club members. before election. Other speakers tentatively sched- uled aroe Oswald D. He<:k, Republi- can majority leader of the State Asseml>ly, Louis M. Killeen, presi- dent of the Schenectady County Young Republicans Club, and others. Among other events, the Republi- cans wish to hold public debates be- tween :members of their organiza- tion :and the \Roosevelt-for-Reelec- tion\ Club. The ~!ready large platform re- ported in the last issue of The Con- cordien.sis will be added to as the campaign progresses. Townley promised. -~--o-~~-- Union Professors Attend Conf ere nee Williams Invites Professors To Centennial Anniversary Of Mark Hopkins The c-entPnnial celebration of the administration of Mark Hopkins, famous pr-esident of Williams Col- lege, which will be held this week- end at the Williamstown institution will l>e attended by eight Union Col- lege professors who will take part in the various divisior~al confer- ences tomorrow mor-ning and ·after- noon. Hit at Opponent Alii terati vcly agile, they called their hitherto anonymous opponent \self-satisfied penny-pincher\ \our rc::;entful Republican.'', \our secret assailant\ \our distressed decrier\ and \our- benign belly-patter.\ They professed no admiration for the Landon defenders. Plan Pep !Rallies, \Musical Evenings\ as Part of Fall Work Wednesday, Oct. 7.-At the first Parrying Republican thrusts meeting of the College Christian point by point, the Roosevelt club Association tonight, five delegates attacked Landon for his views on were chosen to represent Union at the tariff, for his \inconsistency\, the New York State Student Con· hsi ·'inex.pezience in national prob· !ems.'' ference at Syracuse next week \The Republican praises the gov- from Friday to Sunday. Robert D. ernor of Kansas as competent for the presidency of the United States. The governor's acquaintance with toreign affairs is well known; tile size of the Kansas budget is fa- mous; the extent of Kansas' bank- ing and currency problems is clear; the complexity of Kansas industr.aJ and commercial life is manifest; the labor problems solved by the Everest '37, elected chairman of the conference last spring, will also head the Union delegation made up of Jaek Brand '39, Peter DeWitt '39, Charles Reeves '37, and .AI Bor- den '39. New Officers Named Governor- are innumerable; the At the meeting, the names of the diplomatic career of the Governor officers of the Union organization 's noteworthy; the military forces \or the coming year were formally and peace problems of Kansas have <Lnnounced. Everest is the presi- attracted universal attention.\ dent, Reeves, vice-president, and R~sevelt Lauded Leslie Paffrath '39, secretary. As for Roosevelt, they said: \The Plans for the fall semester, as President promised a New J?eal Jetailed by Everest, include foot· and he gave us one; he promls.ed ball pep rallies, work in the local to strive for a more abundant lrfe, rloys· Club the annual Christmas tor the whole Amencan people, an<.· II Song Festi~al, and an entirely new he. ?as done so. · · _- : In l9~ 2 w: feature, musical evenings to be held bea.~ d far more bitter tirade- in Silliman Hall, open to the stud- ag~mst _P~Utocracy than we .nov. · ent body. Phil Duchscherer ':38, was ~ear. P1es1dent Roosevelt has re- appointed to make the preparations il,eved the P.re::;sure on the poor. for the rallies, Paffrath for the .t<a: from ra1smg class hatred, he work in the Boys· Club, a:nd Robert na, prevented a proletanan revo- T'ff . 38 d p ff th f th 1 ution.'' 1 ~ny ~n a ra or e Reiterating their stand in sup- musiCal evemngs. port of Dr. Earl E. Cummin:;, the Fifteen members were present at Roo~evelt advocates said that he the meeting, at which Everest, di- \has mastered the theory of eco- rector of the Freshman Camp, pre- nomic,; and, by the :;weal of hi::. .,;ented an informal report on the brow, he has thoroughly acquainted activities of the camp. He has also himself with economics in practice. been asked by the council of the With him, newness doe::~ not con- Student Christian Movement to demn a worthy cause. He i:; inde- present a special article on the new pendent and an 01 ie;inal thinker.\ camp at the conference next week. Unger Suggests Practical Systems For Union's Cooperative Movement Reporter Explains \Land of Dead\ Haunt of Lincoln and Old Grads Professors Harold &.. Larrabee and Philip· Stanley, together with several of their advanced students will attend the philosophy confer- ence at the invitation of Professor James B. Pratt, head of the Wil- liams philosophy department. By SAMUEL UNGER Two distinct types of cooperative I tee is appointed to bring in a set of organizations can grow on the By-Laws should be held. These By- Union College campus. The fr:ater-,· Lawb should be very ~implc and nity consumers' cooperative. which should be presented at the next has been discussed in these col- m<>eting for adoption. They should umns at some length, and the stud- contain a statement of the Roch- ent consumers' cooperative. dale .principle<>, which are: 1. If you want to l'islt the dead, if you want to 10eet the former classes of Cnion College, if you want to see something that is old and dusty and full of mysteries, then go up to the third floor of the college li·brary and spend a few hours. A reporter went there this afternoon and felt as if he were dead and buried by the time he got (JUt. The fir-st thing that he came across a.fter he had climbed through the trap door and passed several stacks of old grimy ,books that had long since been discarded l>as an old manuscript containing the original sermons delivered at Eastwood, Scotla:bld. ,by the Rev- erend Robert Wood1·ow ll705-1771l. The writing in the oook was all 'bY hand and the pa.ges were yellow and grimy with age. The reporter c'lln·tinued on his way around the room and came to a small miniature tnodel of Chr-ist and his disciples a~ their \Last Sup- per.n Christ is sitilng at the head of the table in prayer·. while Judas is on his right witb his head buried in his arms, contemplating his crime. 'I'he rest of the disciples are sitting in various positions around the table; some of them in prayer, others in repose. He turned around an<l saw a pic- ture of A..braham Lincoln. lying on the Hoor, and near by was a strange manuscript written in an ancient language which he couldnl de- cipher. t'nder it was the statement, \The Book of St- Cha ud.'' Walking across the room, the re- porter came te> some old cUiios of the forr:ner classes of Union College. They we1·e all mounted on one par- tition that looked: like a large col- ored-glrus window with inscriptions and name-s written on it. I..ooking at the center ctxrio. the reporter saw the following inscription, \MountEd and framed for preserva- tion by the class of 1909.'' Another interesUilg itern was the cuz·io in memory of the class of 1886, the oldest of all the relics. The tllird floor in the library has an atmosphere tbat is so ancient that It is unique. When you are among the old: d1:.1st-strew-n books, the torn magazines of the p~t. the old pictures, tbe curios of former classes, the sinal! miniature table of Christ at ills dinner, you ·begin to feel as If you were living in the past, as if 3--oll wer-e amongst the dead. Dr. Irving Langmuir. honorary fellow in the physical -\!ciences at Union and associate director of the Research Laboratory of the Gen- eral Electric Company, at the sci- ence symposium. Dr. Peter I. Wold, who gave an address late last spring at Williams College on the cosmic ray, and Dr. Frank Studer, both of the physics department. have been invited to participate also in the science meetings. They will attend the sessions tomorrow morning .. From the biology department Drs. Samuel Leonard, Ernest E. Dale, Leonard A. Clark and James Watt Mavor expect to be present tomorrow morning. Most of the professors are ex- pected to remain at Williams until Sunday. Notice to AU Freshmen Freshman hats are now available at the college bookstore. .After noon tomorrow, the Sophomore Disciplin:ary Committee will im- pose dr-astic pUnishment on all freshmen not wearing t::he regula· tion caps or breaking any other of the freshman rules. The fraternity consumers' coop- Democratic control--one member-. erative may be likened to a whole- one vote, regardless of the number sale with each of the fraternity of shares held. 2. Fixed limited in.- menibers as retail stor-e outlets. terest, on share capital, if any. 3. This idea might be developed to a Open membership to any non- point where each fraternity had profit organizations regardless of its own little cooperative store. race, color, creed, or political affili- Without giving much thought to ation. 4. Surplus savings returned this phase of the question. I would to members as patronage dividends conclude that an overlap of admin- in proportion to purchases made. istration might result and that it The By-Laws ought also provide would be more effective to keep the for the appointment of election of two separate. Another possbile Educational, Membership, Purchas- plan Is to combine fraternity and in~-: and Research Committees. A student cooperatives into one ad- nominal amount should ,be set as ministrative unit, maintaining sep- dues. Following the adoption of the arate departments with different By-Laws, affiliation should 'be made types of membership for the neces- with The Eastern Cooperative sary purpose of differentiating be- League and The Eastern Coopera- tween wholesale and retail busi- tive Wholesale, Inc. In addition an ness. This separation becomes attempt should be made to contact necessary if we are to avoid a grave the Schenectary Consumers.• Club. viOlation of the democratic princi- now making purchases from two ple of savings returns on the basis cooperative wholesales, in an effort of patronage. to combine purchases. I am very Since the .fraternity consumers' well acquainted with the price lls.t cooperative is the type now gener- of the E. C. W. and. prices scale al.ly discussed, let us consider how dovm. considerably with even small it can be evolved. The first step increases in volume. The College would be the immediate organ!za- Educational Committee can obtain tion of a buying club. An organiza- from The Eastern Cooperatvie tiona! meeting at which a commit- (Continued on Page 4) In announcing the rules, Everest said, \One of our biggest problems IS to impress upon the merchants the sincerity and determination with which we are tackling this job. It has been attempted several times before and has failed. This time we intend to succeed. State New Rules The plan calls for the following governing rules: 1 A written agreement will be made between the dealers and the fraternities for a probationary period of one month. 2 The dealers will agree to supply daily orders. 3 The frater-nities will agree to place their orders before a certain time of day and the dealers will make deliveries at a specified time. 4 Any fraternities having present agreements with dealers will con- tinue their contracts for this year. 5 Fixed prices will be obtained for some products while percentage reductions will be arranged ior those products with fluctuating prices. To Supply 300 The next step in the program is to obtain prices on supplies for approximately 300 students in 20 fraternities. Among the supplies are meats, eggs, butter, creamery products, fruits and vegetables, canned and baked good, cereals, soaps, toilet articles, coal and oil, cleaning appliances and household furnishings . The stewards present were Frank Gatchell, Psi Upsilon; Robert Denz.. ler, Theta Delta Chi; Roy Noon, Phi Delta Theta; Edson Draper, Chi Psi; Frank Van Dyke, Phi Sig- ma Kappa; Bob Shepard, Alpha Delta Phi; and Bob Everest, Delta Upsilon. Plan Tax Education Snyder, In \Eliminating Misconcep- tion\ About Tax Says Students Will Be Told All \\\t'dnesday Oct. 7.-Attempting to eliminate a popular misconcep- tion about the Student Tax Com- mittee and its activities, Richard C, Snyder, chairman of the com- mittee, declared in daily assem'bly this morning that a plan for the education of the students in the affairs of the finnace ,body will be attempted this year. Snyder said that the columns of The Concordiensis would be used frequently to il!ustr·ate the work- ings of the tax committee and to present the results of each meeting through the studen,t organ. He pointed out that one of the reasons that the tax committee has been painted as an og-re which seems to usurp a power over the students which it legally does not have is because of the lack of pub- licity given the committee in past years. A program is now being outlined whereby a complete statement of the budgeting of the $11,000 wo.rth of student ta:xes will be published at the end of the year in pamphlet form. In addition to the work of <\!omplling the statistics which will give a detailed account of each activity's expenditure, the tax com- mittee Is also -planning to make a study of the tax systems of other institutions In this locality. Snyder said that each activjty supported .by student taxes on the campus was independent and free to worl{ out its own progr-am with- out Interference from the tax com- mittee. The handling of the student funds does not mean control over the Individual policies of the or~ ganizations.

.I Two · 'l'HE CONOORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1936 ~irttsi.s LIBERAL EDUCATION Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler defined liberal education as \an insight into the underlying principles of the way in which we live.\ We \A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ FOUNDED 1877 , can hardly attain this goal in the short l<l36 Member lQ:l7 t:\ssociated CoUeeitlte Press Distributors of Coneeidte Di5est Sole and eKl'lusive national advertising repFesen ta tives NA'riONAL ADVERTISING SEHVICE, Inc. 420 Madison Avenue New York City ·Chicago . Boston · San Francisco · Los Angeles Portland - S.,a,ttlo: The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesda:ys and Fri- days throughout the college yeal', except dur· ing Christmas and Spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United: States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Senior Boa1·d Norman R. Stewart ............ Editor-in-Chief Chi Psi Lodge-4-6527 S. Ralph Cohen ............... Managing Editor Silliman Hall-4-0133 Fenton A. Gage ................... News Editor Delta Upsilon House-4-7922 Milton D. Bedell .................. Sports Editor D\lta IJv,llun HousE:-4-7922 Donald Ford .............. Circulation Manager Chi Psi Lodge-4-5527 James W. Righter ........... Business Manager Delta Upsilon House-4-7922 Junior Board ASSOCIATE EDITORS Carl Trahman Willard Dean Edward Barry Robert Doig Hyman Enzer Henry Hartmann Robert Ferguson Melvin Muroff Sophomore Board Assistant Editors M. Depp, F. Hequembourg, P. Humphrey, F. Saidel, D. Taft, R. Walter, R. Morgan, D. Mil· ler, J. O'Brien, B. Rathbun, J. Smith. Issue Editor ....... , ........ W. W. Dean H. E. Enzer J. O'Brien Assistants F. Hequembourg D. Taft Friday, October 9, 1936 POLITICS IN COLLEGE Aroused by the bugbear, politics, th.e cam- pus has become overwhelmed with numbers of amateur political theorists. They show interesting, if not remarkable, insight into the program and policies of the presidential candidates, hack to pieces the characters of Landon and Roosevelt alike, and use terms such as Jeffersonian democracy, social se- curity and the like as though they under- stood the terminology perfectly. The analogy to the confectio)1ery store philosophers is nearly perfect. Neither thinks, but expostu- lates profusely. period of the human life. If we continually stl'ive for it, however, we can make the ap- proach seem near:er and nearer. TEXTBOOK CHANGES Year after yeal' new textbooks appear on the lists of books required in the various courses. While new material comes to light in the scientific fields because so much re- search is being made in chemistry and phys- ics, the social studies give to the academic world from new discoveries only different interpretations, their validity highly prob- lematical at that. The departments of chem- istry and physics find it well nigh imperative to change texts frequently, even yearly when new discoveries affecting these sciences are published. Upon the professors in those divisions we press our congratulations for theil· progressive attitude. We hesitate, on the other hand, to bind any laurels on the bl'Ows of the non-scientific branches. Frankly, we are in no position to examine their maturer judgment. All that we can do is to suggest to the heads of these departments that they make a satisfactory explanation to their students. Surely the Language and Literature Division cannot feel that enough change has entered into literature, French, German, and English to warrant insisting that new books must be used .every other year. If they can present as strong a case as the sciences have, we will be only too glad to retract these statements and suitably honor them. No personalities, we hope, will feel this editorial directed towards them. It is only that we are informing the authorities of these departments of certain unsatisfactory conditions. They must ~ealize that purchas- ing new books adds con,siderably to the cost of education, which already prohibits many from entering its higher branches. Consider- ation of this fact would meet with the most hearty approval by the students. MOUNTEBANKS DIRECTORS The Concordiensis takes this opportunity of welcoming to the campus the two who will be responsible for the direction of the Mountebanks Theahe this season. To the first, Miss Miriam Doyle, accru.es an unusual distinction-that of being the first woman to be officially connected with Union College in an academic position since the college was founded in 1795. However, Miss Doyle and Mr. Earle :1\fitch.ell need no other distinction than that which they have ~lready won for themselves in the theatre. Both have enviable records, Miss Doyle as producing director for Laur- ence Rive1·s, Inc., and Mr. Mitchell as a supervising director of the Feederal Theatre Project and an actor of long standing. The Mountebanks has become, in the course of the last ten y.ears, one of the out- standing activities on the campus, and the theatre seems to be an ever more important' topic of conversation on the campus. The Conc()rdiensis in welcoming the heads of dramatic work for this year, believes it expresses the thought of the student body in promising them every cooperation. Politics are suitable topics of discussion for college students, providing they realize the limits of their knowledge. Knowledge misdirected accounts for the muddle we find ourselves in today. There are few who qual- ify to carry on an intelligent conversation of political events, and the elect have had to giv.e their whole time to studying political science. Because of the party system in gov- ernment, truths al'e camouflaged or .exagger- ated so that only an expert can interpret wisely campaign speeches, press repo1ts and other publicity which floods the papers and radio programs throughout the country. Presidents and Congressmen have been able to attribute their success to catch words and slogans, which a fickle public grasps at blindly and willingly. They fool th.e average And at Other Colleges •.. voter, but a wise man could readily reveal The faculty of LEHIGH UNIVERSITY seems over- th · h 11 whelmlngly Republican according to a recent poll · ell' S a owne.ss. taken. Landon received. 50 votes to 30 for Roosevelt, We, therefore, feel justified in holding in and two for Thomas. Several faculty members did not vote, giving as their reasons that they had not disdain the organization of political clubs yet \made up their minds.\ within the college, unless competent leaders The Masquers of• AMH~RST hope to be able to direct them. Under present circumstances make a European tour next summer with the plays th t • 't' f th 1 b , they will present du.rlng this seaso,n, London and e a'C !Vl 1es o e c U s are cha1·acterized Vienna are eyed with particular favor. Negotiations by a childishness and lack of real purpose or are now under way for the engagements and also for a possible Shakespearean production to be given in direction. These pseudo-intellects should connection with t!J.e F'olger Sh.akespearean Library in drop their guise and try to learn how to un- Washington, which is held in trusteeship by tbe col- lege. derstand before understanding. * * • Althomrh not strictly to the point, l't l's ·of Because of the incl'easing number of students who ~ bave been honored by making the Dean's List some importance to know that few of the ROCHESTER has made the chances for getting on the list a bit stiffer. UNION made a better record members of the clubs are eligible to vote on than ROCHESTER,. getting one-third of the student N b 4 R b ' t t body on the Dean's List as compared to the one- . ovem er • emem er you re no men ye • fourth at the western. New York institution. CINEMA By JOHN B. DOWLING Man.l!a.ttan Madnel!s (Columbia; Proctor's) adds another to the lU!t of <;omedies which the dty 'has been seeing and it Is a tho1·oughly engaging additlqn. Joel McCrae is a criminologist writing for newspapers on a free ·lance system. He is engaged to write a story of how a ruby Wa!l stolen ·and to follow the gang up· that is responsible. He astounds everyone by crediting the robbery to a man thought dead for the past four years and what is more, man· ages to predict the subsequent jobs which this man and his confreres will attempt. These amazing predictions and the self-satisfied way in which they are made, lead the rest of the re- pel ters to frame McCrae with a pxactical joke in which he seems in danger of losing his life. And it is the girl who helps them, Jean Ar- thur, that provides the love interest of the piece. She. is an actress about to open in a show which has been postponed time and agaln. The show concerns the late-lamented war and one of the m.ost amusing shots in the picture is the opening, finally, of the play and the incred· ibly bad writing which it sports, put in with a tongue in the cheek. Things come to a climax when McCrae predicts the theft of a dia- mond and the prediction falls through. He seems to be losing his mind because of his fai!Ule. Then in swift progression the robbery ac- tually does occur, Jean Arthur dis- covers that McCrae's life is in dan· ger, the long-dead man returns to regani a picture which he has lost and is captured. The final sequence is a three-way telephone conversa- tion !>€tween the gu·l, McCtae, and his editor in which each tries to straighten out his particular tx ou IJ. les. The character of George Melville (Joel .McCrae) is a notable addition to the list of comedy-thriller detec- tives, Because he has a strong sense of appreciation for art in any form, and because he knows that the xobber also has that sense he is able to predict with accuracy what will be stolen next. All this he car- ries off with the charm and insouci· ance which have become so neces- sary a part of bright young men on the screen. Miss Arthur shares in the acting honors, as does Reginald Owen, and when doesn't he? Credit goes to the staff for an apt piece of writing brought to life by tight direction and editing. N.T.G. Vaudeville presents what pur- ports to be a revue but turns out to be a madhouse, thanks largely to the efforts of the three Lake Brothers, the comics thereof. Among the items in bedlam are two burlecue .CIUeens in a boomp dance, several smgers, two very excellent ballr~om tap dancers, the afore- mentioned Lake Brothers and a girl who dances quite in the alto- gether. We advise tbe front rows for this show-and look out for the rattles! JUST IN JEST Good evening, my friends. r call y~u my friends because you are my fl'!ends.-Yeah! I was going to de- vote a whole column this week to the Secret Service bureau, Cart Garrison and George Haskell but the subject isn't worth the ;pace. I However, !_ would like to give the aforementioned a hint on how to improve that thing they egotisti- cally call a column. Give it the con- tinental touch, George, old boy. After all we did send you to Scot· land to assimilate some knowledge. Mmmm, that reminds me-didn't I hear som~thing about the peculiar extra-curricular activities indulged in by last year's exchange student while in Scotland. I wonder- oh well-might as well keep the col: umn clean. CAMPUS BAGATELLE: During t~e past summer Ed Carroll, as duector of the Institute of the Theatre, occupied Burges Johnson's office, and if what we hear is true did not leave it as he found it. Last week the Carroll received a letter from the Johnson which said in part, \is it true, sir, that you kept pigeons in my office this summer?\ .... is Prof. Doty trucltin' with ·a very charming widow .... latest reports from the Skidmore front shows that the D. U. gigolo \Little Jumbo\ Tiffany, is two up' on the Adonis of the Delta Phi house George Doyle, in the battle for per~ manent possession of Fuzzy Brett (howm'I doin, Fuzzy, old bean?) . . . . S. Ralph Cohen made some time with t.he veddy,. veddy nice female lead m the \Sa1lor Beware\ company which played .Albany last week (\Cohen Beware\) ... what two .Alpha Delts were ejected from the Worden Saturday night for continuing to sing after being warned by the management not to . . . . there's a gal at Skidmore named Blossom Apple (personally, I prefer an Apple Bl()ssom:) , ... the romance of Jack Dowling and Sylvia :Klarsfl.eid, a up and comln' young New York actress, is still' veddy, veddy torrid-she was up to see him last week-end . • . . the bosses of the campus football· pool took a tel'lMic beating last week- end . . . . what three Kaps took three gals from Scr:ibner to Sara- toga Lake Saturday aftElrnoon on what they called a \picnic\ (I'd call it a \beer party\) .... there Is a strong possibility that tne Mounte• banks will use two p:!'OfElssional actresses from New Yorlt for- the .first show-now tnat's sornethin'. YOUR UNCLE WILLY'S SCOOP OF THE WEEK: Dickie Snyder B!ppeared before the Student Coun- cil last week and advocated the hiring of a PAID PRESS AGENT to spread the gospel of tbe Student Tax Committee. Whoops, n1 1 dear! Would the press agent's job be to write-up the tax comJ:Ilittee or rather would it be indiredly to ex· plait s~mebody for an award which will lle made at the end of the year.-Naughty, naughty boys! Again I say-Whoops m'dear! W.W.M. BOOKS II GREAT SONGS MADE SIMPLE -Arthur W. Hepner & Jacques Wolfe. Drawings by Lisa; Whitney. Foreword, Lawrence Tipbett, Met- ropolitan Opera. Pub. G. Schirmer, t$:75). Arthur Wallace Hepner is a fig- ure altogether familiar to this campus. He acquired background in musicology as a pup1'l of Leon Barzin and· later under the baton of Se•ge Koussevitsky. Fo1·merly music critic of J3rooldyn Daily Eagle, New York Post, Union Col- lege Concordiensis, Critique Gen- erale. At present a major in politi- cal science, Harvard University. Introduce the discussion of the composers' lives or works to an average campus group and: you effect a strange withdrawal. It is an intellectual deficit we probably plan sometime to fill. With the ac- cessibility of this compact assem- blage of the lives of the master composers, it's a matter of an hour's devotion and you can emerge with an acquaintance adequate to carry you ·Intelligently to the \sometime\ of more copious read- ing. In engaging manner Mr. Hepner carries on through each separate sketch, consummating a more than satisfactory layman's basis of mu- sical personalities, human anec- dote and random technical infer- His face Is not his fortune, and mation. This reviewer never ex- would scarcely launch a. ro 1 v1Joat pects to encounter a more complete but there is something th.~re. I1: re- brief-sketch than Arthur Hepner sembles :something seen 0on a rainy has worked out in his treatment >Of day In the Egyptian Room of the Beethoven and Wagner. Attached Britisll Museum but back of i't an to each biographical brief is a char- executive mind fllllctions. Tanned acteristic composition of the com- complexion with more rings t;ha.n poser with piano arrangement by Saturn, A. long no~, tapel'ing Jacques Wolfe. Criticism of com- slightly outward, neatly erease-rl at poser Wolfe's contribution to the the end. An onion shaped llea.d, -·rs publication can be dismissed with twelve points to starboard. E,Yes far a playful revision of the title, apart, reproachful, mouth str11..ight \G!!eat Songs Made Too Simple.\ when smlling, a downward trend Lisa Whitney has done a capital when at ease a sad dog e:xpression. ta.sk with he.r drawings; graphic, The athletic type. Sklni!y wit;h a w1th an occas10nal touch of caprice, lot of bones showing. A frustrated to give a lift to the factual biogra- bay windo1v. Walks flat-fuoted, has phy, never been seen hm·rying, ex~pt to The inadequacy of Mr. Wolfe's a golf match. A model of conserva.- work will inevitably limit the suc- tism. His clothes would :never ap- cess deserved by the superior work pear in Esquire but they keep him of Miss Whitney and Arthur Rep- covered. A sepulchral voice, the ner. If sales demand so warrants, proverbial bark being w<>rse tha.n a future printing might be im- the academic bite. Probably lias In- proved with a few revised musical digestioiL When you think he's arrangements. The book has a fu- smiling at you, don't fla.f;ter y(mr- ture principally as a standard text, self, he's merely getting- llSed to but recommended. here as a sensi- you. ble addition to any man's library. -N. 1'. L. R. P. YO fill L JJO; .E CHANGE Iron out your laundry • worries !l JY~FTL.Y- SAFELY - Let that depen~ablc college pal, Railway Express, pick up and ship your laundry home and back for you every .week. You will find it glossy going_ easy, fast, me:qJensive. Merely p.otify the folks you will send the pack- age by Railway E:xpress, and ask them to return it tbe same wa~. Y<>u can send it collect too, you know,, and wh1le on that subject, we can add, only by Rallwa~ Elt)lress. The folks will understand. It ~aves kecpmg accounts, paying bills, to say noth- Ing of spare change, ,Y ?u'll find t~e idea economical all round. The ll:llmm~m rate J:S lovr- only 38 cents- sometimes less. Ptck:up a:nd delivery by motor vehicle and insuran~e mc~u.<l:d in the shipping charge. It's the ~~e With. shipping l!aggage or anything else by atlway Express. Si> arrange your shipping dates by phone call to the Railway Express agent and start now. • Cor. Wall and Liber+ySts. 'Phone 4-5612 • DEPOT OFFICE: N.Y. C. STATION Phone 4-85 12 S h t d N y c enec a y, • • RAlL\W\AY EXPRESS AGENCY, INC. NATION-W'IDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE i • 1 Un1~ 1 QuakE First Serious l11j Weake11~ Dll· The Union C left this mor.niJ Tomorrow afteJ the Swarth:rno: team in the thi for the Garnet, rent season fc Beaten in their Dutchmen will 1 • first touchdoWI I student ·body a fervently hopil contest will be the· locals' .sche Devoting a w ing, tackling aJ plays, Coach 1' no more satisfie Wednesday tha day. He was nc ling he expecte not follow tlte blocking backs made by tbe linemen had trc the proper men. looked very rag ~jurit Of ·course, ·tl:J merous injurie from the team. sophomore end, the week, and J back, left 'I'ues and Ernie Bro\' ing leg and kne· Smith is definlt• ing lineup with Tyler Dennett i hand, and Jim covered froin a Hampered· by by a shifted 1 looked very sac held the freshm savage scriinlll.:; ward wall was It was not lo Hammerstroru whole varsity te to a touchdown. sity recuperate() some nice run couple of ·pass· touchdown by through the :fro~ been trying ma.< two games. Ty1 the ball when i resting place o stripe. Coach Nitchn: reserves. He hac center, centers i right tackles a tions. Mulcare nated at cente1 played guard, ( gle, Ladue ax switched at tac Farr and Lewi:: spots. Lewis, by have a perman' his grasp if he ited play he ha Lineup In the bacld different combi: none of which the efficiency o result of all t Nels doesn't ha· f)f a starting li has certain opln but no one will for sure until after the battle. Regarding Sw next to nothing boys. They hav' yet, but have tl ing a big orga predict anythinl up after the Mi As a gene1·a1 looking for 11.. re coaches have t:I:J their spirit bas on the practice self wants to wi terest has beell is behind tile 1 mage sessions, 'l now is to ilai>E best, and forget to a prospeNlUS Plan RadiCJ For Roches The projecte scription of tile has been drop}: flicts with the v meet with Vet·.x: man football g dlebury frosh. 'l however, will • cast to the can will probably bl gym, the Old Hall 300, depe available at ti:H tending the bro to sha:re in l t Harold Wittne-:r erest are in ch~ menta,

THE GONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER- 9, 1936 Three ~:t -- To 0- p· en s·ched,nle For Aim~ Mater I Plans for Fall Meetings F • t E t f y· Lewis ......... , .. Left End u. By MILT BEDELL j • Irs.. ncoun er 0 ear J..a.due (Gatchell) LeftTackle -- fig- this ound Col- Gen- the an you an ac- an to the than mu- ex- plete pner ched by the with pita! phic, suc- im- fa- •• I I ' i Serious l11ju.l'ies to Team W eake11s Chanees of Dlltchmen Varsity Harriers Open With Vermont .Six Sophomores Chief Hope ·For Dutchman Victory R..iggs . . . . . . . . . . Left Guard Barton .............. Center Potts . . . . . . . . . Right Guard Ladd . . . . . . . . . Right Tackle Campbell ('Farrl. .Right End Dennett ....... , Right Half Amazon ...... Quarter Back Thomas .......... Left Half Brown ...... _ .... F'ull Back Squad to Oppose Middlebury On Alexander Field Tomorrow The Union College football team left this mor-ning for Philadelphia Tomorrow afternoon it will engage the Swarthmore College football team in the third game of the year for the Garnet, the first ·of the cur- rent season for the home team Beaten in their first two starts, the Dutchmen will be seeking their first touchdown of the yea~·. The student ·body and the coaches are fervently hoping that this third contest will be the turning point in In Initial Meet Wednesday, Oct. 7-As Saturday draws rapidly near, deep lines of worl\y are beginning to crease the usually jovial countenance of frosh football coach Art Lawrence. Why -~-------------.is he worried? Just mention the word \Injury\ to him and if you Led by Captani Bill Hawkes, the Garnet varsity cross-country team will open its season tomorrow af- ternoon when it -entertains the I outlive the ensuing eruption of •jL I meanings and groanings you will INTRAMURAL$ gather tha:t he is afraid of the last- - minute sprains and twists that al- !!;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;=;;;;;;========o=! ways crops up just before an im- University of ·;vermont harriers in Fall Tennis the locals' schedule. Devoting a whole week to block- ing, tackling and running through the opening meet of the season.' The second round of the Fall Coach Em Ketz will rely chiefly on· Tennis Tournament must be com- six. .Sophomore hopefuls to bring pleted on or befm'e Friday, October J.5. Do not allow your match to .vait until the last day, Forfeits .vill deduct many points from your ;roup. plays, Coach Nels Nitchman was home the bacon. no more satisfied with his team. on llalvkes Favored Wednesda-y than he was on Mon- day. He was not getting the tack- The team has been weakened ling he expected; his backs would through graduation and the failure not follow the interference; the of some of .the runners to round · blocking backs filled up the h<tles into shape. A.lthough the team is · made by the forward wall; the not as strong- as last year, a fair linemen had trouble in talting out season is expected. Bill Hawkes and the proper tnen. AlL in all, the team· Harry- Myers are the only two let- looked very ragged, termen on th.e team, Hawkes has been leading the harriers home Iljjwies Abowtd · regularly and will probably be the Of ·course, ·there have been nu-· J:i.zst man to -cross the line tomor- merous injuries and depattures row. Myers will start tomorrow, but from the team. Bob Conroy, lanky stomach trouble rnay keep him sophomore end, left school early in from finishing in -the first five. the week, and Bob Garnet, reserve The rest of the team is of doubt- back, left Tuesday. Jake Amazon ful qualtiy. The second-year men and Ernie Brown are both suffer- will be in their first intercollegiate ing leg and knee injuries, and J-ack run and the success of the season Smith is definitely out of the •Sb.rt- will depend on their reactions to- ing lineup with a very stiff knee mox row. Don Thomson and Frankie Tyler Dennett is nursing a bl'Uised Myers, both l\Unners on last year's hand, and .Tim Riggs has not re- freshnmn team, are ex.pected to covered frozn a disabled arm. show up well against the Cata- Hampered' by these injuries and mounts. Ed Wells and Joe Annese, by a shifted lineup, the varsity two other sophomores, are expect- looked very sad Wednesday as it ed to finish in the first five of the held the freshmen to a 6-6 tie in a Union runners, with Howard Shef- savage scriznm.age. The frosh :for- fer, who also r-an with the yearlings ward wall was a pillar of defense last year. It was not long bef<>re Sammy The remainder of the team has Hammerstrom b1·oke through the risen to great heights on occasions whole varsity team to run 80 yards and may- prove to be the surprises to a touch.down. The so-called var- against Verm<mt. The two Denton sity recuperated, though, and with brothers, Ralph and Ray, have both some nice running plays and a had good days, hut their times couple of passes, pushed over a have been very variable. Sammy touchdown by finally ploughing Hewitt has been bothered with a through the frosh line, a feat It has leg injury but will answer the start- been trying rna.dly to do in the last ing gun and may go places. two games. Tyler Dennett was on the ball when it achieved its final Vermont Strong resting place over the last white Last year 1Jnion lost a 29~26 d:eci- stripe. sion to Ver.mont and as the Cata- Coach Nitchman used all of his mounts have practically the same reserves. He had guards playing at team this year they will be slight center, centers in the backfield, and favorites to win against the Dutch- right tackles at left tackle :p_osi- men. Marty Lamson, the most con- tions. Mulcare and Barton alte!\- sistent runner for the Vermont lads nated at center, Potts and Bakel last year, is captain of the team played guard, Gatchell, Ladd, .An- this season. 'The decision of ex- gle, Ladue and a few ()thers captain Al·bie Lehrer to compete switched at tackle, and Campbell, against Union has helped the visi- Farr and Lewis alternated at end tors' stock. Vermont, incidentally, spots. Lewis, by the way, seems to won the state championship last have a perinanent end position in year. The other members of the his grasp if he continues the S]lir- team are Steele, Keith, Jenks, ited play he has been showing. Hathaway, Ripper, Cate, Houghton, and Gilman. Lineup Uncertain The meet IVili be run off during Fall Tmck The entries for the Fall Track Meet must be in the intramural box. 'by Saturday noon, October 10. At least six men from any one group must enter and .compete to gain. the entrance points. No post entries will be accepted. Football Schedule (Monday, October 12) Delta Upsilon vs. Lambda Chi Alpha., Alexander Field. Psi Upsilon vs. winner, Phi Gam- ma Delta-Kappa Nu, Alexander Field. Phi Sigma Delta vs. winner, Alpha Delta Phi-Delta Chi, Council Field. Chi Psi vs. winner, Sigma Phi- North College, Council Field. ---o---- Jl arsity Coach Charges And Blocks With Team Anyone seeing yesterday's var- sity football -practice C()Uld never accuse Nels Nitehman, varsity mentor, of dishing out more than he could take. For one hour Nels ran himself and his linesmen through charging and. ·blocking practice that shook the Alumni Gymnasium to the bottom of its .ound!ation and drew a crowd of spectators from all directions. The savage vigor with -which the grid- ders pitted themselves upon their -coach was all a part of the rigor- ous last-day practice before the team leaves for Swarthmore. Nels is determined to win tomorrow's game if he has to- use every avail- able man in so doing. The Garnet has been greatly hindered this year -because of injuries to the backfield men. However, with a fair bit of good fortune, Union should return Monday with a scalp at her belt and a happy coach in her midst. Despite the scores, Nels has done wonders with the squad and should reap the rewards of his labors be- fore many more days have passed. Fencing Notice In the back.fleld, about twelve the half of the 1Jnion Frosh-Mdidle- different combinations were used, bury Frosh fC>otball game, or about none of which worked with quite 3 p. m. Because of its experience, the efficiency of the W.P.A .. AB a Vermont wlil be a slight favorite to result of all this muddle, Coach repeat 1ts last-year's triumph, but Nels doesn't have the faintest idea if the Sophomores come through, f)f a. starting lineup. Of course ha the Ketzmen will hang up their All mambe1·s ()f last year's fenc- has certain opinions on the subject, first victory. ing team are expected to report for but no one will know about them practice this afterno()n. Mr. Von for sure until the lineup is :r-ead ---o---- Forstrnyer will also meet any other after the battle. men with previous fencing experi- Regarding Swarthmore, we know 011 ting Club ence at the same time. Since only a next to nothing about the south.ern limiteq is available no instruction b •t 1 d can be given freshmen or anyone oys. They haven P aye a game This weelt end will see three who has not fenced before. yet, but have the reputation of be- gro-ups of the Outing Club venture -:::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::j ing a big organization. We won't forth in quest of exciting experi- r predict anything, for we gave that ences in the neigh.boring country- up after the Middlebury scrap. side. Group No. 1 will attempt to As a genem.l summary, all are scale Santoni Mountain, Group No. looking for a reversal in form. The 2 will climb M:t, Marcy, while Groun coaches have their hearts in it, for 3 leaves for Rotterdam Sunday their spirit has been de~nonstrated morning to eontinue work on the on the practice field. The team it- ski tl\ails. Ail persons who are in- self wants to win. The st11dent body terested and who would like to terest has been shown at the scrim- work on the trails Sunday should is behind the team, for much in- communicate with Fred Wyatt not DE WITT'S LUNCH and TAP ltOOM Home Cooked Foods Enjoy Our Fine Beverages 118 JAY ST. Opposite City Hall ,portant game. \Sm:e we'll give them a tough battle and ought to make a good showing,\ he remarked when asked as to the outcome of Saturday's contest, \if we have no injuries to .the members of the team. The size of the squad is so small that re- placements are few and I am afraid there will be a different story to tell Saturday if any members of the team are hurt.\ I<':l·osh Tie Varsity The frosh showed up extremely well in the short scrimmage Wednesday a-fternoon, tieing the varsity, 6-6. However, Art Lawrence isn't satisfted. \They're doing well, defensively,\ he admitted, \but they are still slow in starting on the offense.\ Sammy Hammerstrom made the frosh score, scampering 70 yards for the touchdown. The scrimmage was finally cut short by a teeming rain that turned the gridiron iDto a quagmire and made further playing impossible. Law- rence still sees bad spots but ex- pects to have the team in top shape by the opening whistle Saturday. The average weight of the line from end to end is about 180 pounds, and that of the backfield in the vicinity of 160. Although no statistics were available concerning Middlebury, it is expected that the two teams will be about evenly matched in weight with a possible edge to Middlebury. Below Is the probable Union line- up for Saturday. Art has not quite decided who will fill the left end berth but will !mow by Friday night. Position Player Left End . . . . . . . . . . . . Bill Nugent Left Tackle Augie Kluge Left Guard . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bill Lynn Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Fred Burns Right Guard . . . . . . . . Lou Kramer Right Tackle . . . . . . Johnny K~ull Right End . .. . .. . . .. . .. Bob Kmg Quarterback . . Sam Hammerstrom Left Halfback . . . . . . . Fred Patrie Right Halfback . . . . Chuck Passe Fullback . . . . . . Larry Brockmeyer Reserves Backfield: Cary, Rosen, Quinlan. Line: R()ss, Roberts, Kolter, Kal- avin, Busino. QUALITY SHOE REPAIRING Reasonably Priced Phone 4-7711 THE WALLACE COMPANY BASEMENT For Deluxe Coaches Call G. A. Welcome & Son 1711 UNION-ST. PHONE 4·9444 mage sessions. The only thing to do later than Sat:urday morning. now is to ho1>e and pray fol' the best, and forget the past in looking LOUIS WASSERMAN to a prosper<>us future. Gymnasium Notice Plan Radio B i' 0 ad Ca. S t All freshman that are entitled to For Rochester Game Only ~[~~c~ equipment should do so The projected play-by-play de· scription of the Swarthinore game has been dropped because of con- flicts with the varsity cross-country meet with. Ve1·.mont and the fresh- man football game with the Mid- dlebury frosh, The Rochester game, however, 'Will definitely be br<Jad- cast to the campus. The broadcast wili probably be made to either the gym, the Old Chapel, or Bailey Hall 300, depending on which i!! :LVailable at tl:le time, Students at- tending the broadcast will be- asked to share in Its cost. Profesor :J. Harold Wittne-r and Robert D. Ev- erest are in oh.ai·ge of the arrange- menta, General Office Equipment Co. 140 Jay St. Phone 4-9677 l>raftin9 Supplies • Paper Pencils - Fountain Pens TYPEWRITERS NEW- USED Repaired Rented QUALITY MEAT MARKET 354 Broadway HENRY•s BARBER SHOP BARBER.ING and MANICURING N. Y. C. Arcade PINE GROVE DAIRY, Inc. 118 S. FERRY ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Going into the th.ird week of active football competition, the Dutchmen are no better off than when the season opened so hope- fully not long ago. Those disap- pointments are behind us, ho-wever, with plenty of time remaining for the Garnet outfit to come ovel\ to the winning side of the column. Win or lose-the team deserves no less support frotn the student body. When the team is behind is the time for more cheering, more spirit, more confidence. Tradition has proven that spirit can .be in- fused into a losing combination, indirectly through the support of the student body by cheers and fi1·m belief in the team's ability; indirectly from the team itself and through its contact with the coaches. Our coaches have certainly shown that they are heart and soul behind the boys-the fellows themselves are doing everything they can to make up for the first two setbacks-what is the student body doing to further the efforts of these two factions? It's always easy to cheer when you're on top, but it takes \guts\ to do it when you're on the bottom. .. The Vermont CYNIC <September 29) credited the Union eleven with having a good passing attack-a check up on the Middlebury game seems to bear them out. May it fool the cagy Quakers tomorrow. \ * S.R.C. may be a second grade man as far as scholastic averages go, but over at the gym he's not even on the passing list. Will he be back next year to take up swim- ming? That test has to be passed sometime m'boy or that sheepskin will never -be clutched in those chubby hands you're so hopefully holding out. * Three other seniors have a little catching up to do in the way of swimming tests and gym work. They may get away with it, but today, quite by accident, we dis- covered that only once has a man graduated from Union without first taking gym. * Hamilton plays its first home game of the season tomorrow, meeting Hobart. Tl\immed last week by Trinity, 27 te> 0, Art Win- • ers, coach of the Bille and White eleven, has been experimenting with changes in his lineup in hopes >f finding a winning combination. \Io hum. ---ot--- Student Body Meeting There will be a special meeting of the student body Monday morn- ing at ten in the Old Chapel. Sev- eral important matters, including the election of a member of ·the Publications Board, will come be- fore the meeting, Book Center 204 NOTT TER.RACE Annmmces Christmas Book Club Save 10% on all books; buy your holiday gifts on the club plan and save. \.1 book of merit is the finest com- pliment we ca11 pay a frimd.\ H. WOLFE The college Gavel Club, at its first meeting Wednesday night, an- nounced its tentativ-e arrangements for its first public meeting of the year, to be held on November 20. This year the club plans to stress the value of \personalities rather than authorities\ in selecting the speakers who will lead the public discussions. A proguarn is being prepared in which three or four different active local ]><llitical lead- ers will lecture briefly to the club to initiate discussion and debate. The club also intends to Invite faculty members of varied political views to take an active .part in the opening program. Popular for the unusual meetings la.st year at the time of the student and teacher loyalty oath bills, the club plans to continue its bi-weekly meetings on current issues. Present at the first zneeting were Edward Arundel, Hyman .A. Enzer, J. Laurence Hennessey, Robert H. Ferguson, Charles Honlkel, and Alfred Seigle, members of the club .ast year, and Elliott Dodge, Ber- nard Olender, Donald Hawkes, and 1\ilalcolm Arny. KODAKS RADIOS FOUNTAIN PENS Expert Repairing J, T. & D. B. LYON \Everything PhC>togra.phic\ 236 State St. Fhone: 4-8647 .. ------------·------~ I Pictorial Possibilities :1 bound 1' 1 011 Uuio1z's Campus 1 1 Pictures l'rinted, Developed. ! t Delivered-24 Hour Service i 1 1 Lea'l!e Your Photographs : in Green Box in: !llto'Ve I of Sillimmz Hall : I Community Photo Shop J I Campus Rep. 1L A.. Enzer t ~----------------------J ••••••••••••••••••••••••• The New Friendly - $5.00 Sizes and Styles To Fit All Feet The World's Best Shoes at $5.00 to $10.00 a !)air PATTON and tiALL. Inc. 245 STATE. S'T. ••••••••••••••••••••••••• CONNELLY BROTHERS DAIRY, Inc. 1858 HAMBURG STREET PHONE 2-0910 SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING COMPANY ENGRAVERS for THE CONCORDI ENSIS 147 JAY STREET TELEPHO~E 4-9002 GAZETTE PRESS PRINTING

I 1' 'i ! i ! : l Four Scholarship Pays, President Fox Says In. Wesleyan Speech Annual Scholarship Meeting· Hears Dr. Fox Urge Need For Higher Marks Phi Betes Not Lost Men High Scholarship Men Receive Better Jobs, Higher Wages, Than Average Person Middletown, Conn., Oct. 7.- Speaking at the annual Con voca- tion on Scholarship at \Ve~leyan Univet sity, We<.lnesday mot·ning, in the pl'incipal address of the ex- ercises, Pr·csident Dixon Ryan Fox stressed the fact •·that the put pooc of colleges i,; not to pack young tnen and women full of informa- tion, cithe r genet a! or ope cia!, ·but to inculcate habit:> arid methods, in- cite noble and abiding curiosities, reveal the plea:ourcs of fine ta:otes, '-'\tablish humanitarian attitudes, und a:bove u.ll, fot·tify the will tu grow.\ Not Certain Indication \The recitation of a few statisti- cal report::;, even though they cover both East and \Ve>:lt and run through many years, doe\ not in It- self establish certainty that high scholarship in undergraduate years is a cause or indication of future triumph in the game of life. But a strong presu·mption does arise from the fact that apparently no such study has proved the contrary or even clouded the scholar·'s prospect with the slightest doubt. I hope that you will not misunderstand me. If the 'grind' is 'greasy' it will take a phenomenal degree of >:lchol- arship to outweigh his unpleasant- nes::; of personality. If, fascinated by the lure of books, he forgets to look at men -and women he is neglecting an important part of an education. The fact is that a good fellow can win a fellowship, and it is well wo1th while. Old College \Cloud-\\'orld\ \The question remains a:; to whether the college courses have any bearing on the problems of the practical man and the citizen. It was cha~ged that the old college with its almost exclusive devotion to the classics, mathematics and philosophy was a cloud-world whose rules of succe:;s were not the same as those which govem on this earth, especially this American earth, and whose contemplations were quite unrelated to the 1 un- ning thought of Pvery-day men There is plenty of testimony that this was not so, but if it was so it is not so new. The college curricu- 1 um has been refashioned to offer study in what men need to know, and strangely enough, as I have tried to show today, the wo1 iti has 111 sonte way::; actually come near~ I tu that fur whteh the uld eollege sought to t1 ain. If the college coutses u1 e not ~·ct 1 elated to life. then it is the main problem befo!l· uur te:..chin~ f:..cultit•o lu make them so. They •<'alize thi<, and the it }Jl o,; 1 t:.t-!:liVl' achicvellll·Ilt tv ward this Pnd is the exciting aca- demic ad\'('ntUI e of the day .. --·-0 Unger Suggests For Cooperative Plans System (Continued from Page 1) League mat<'tial for study groups nad for the training of discussion group leaders. Both the~e featut es are vital to the success of the co- operative. Your Purchasing Com- mittee should attempt to begin making bulk purchases and start a distribUtiVe sy~telh oh a small >Scale. A central distrbiuting point will be needed. In the beginning, .;pace might be Jll uvidet.l by one of the flaternities. A manager of this dis- tributing center should be elected or appointed. The research commit- tee ohuuld n1ake a \u1 H'Y of the ne!'tls of the flat<Tnitit:s and pi<·· pan• a compn•hen:-;iv•· analysis of the quantitie;; anti qualities of the foOdS and other Ul ticles dc~il CU. C'ompatativ•· table~ of !Jl it:e' mi;.:ht al<o b(' pi q•at rd Thr- mt·mbership committ<'e should try to align ev<'ry fraternity on and off the campus to join the nwvenH·nt. Tht ee months should be spent on laying the groundwork nnd in l'XJwrinwnting. After this, a more permanent type of organization can be set up. This will probably re4uire the set vices of a full-time employee and petl;apo housing facilities which cannot be procured on the campus can be ob- tained elsewhere. I would like to leave two thoughts with you. The day you open your Center, or your store, the attitude between buyer and seller chan.ges. Because, the inter- est of your Manager, yow· Purchas- in-g Committee and your fraternity are the same. The consumer is the man that counts. To any criticisms or objections which may be raised, in 40 countries of the world ·-in thez·e is but one answer. It works- • in 6600 societiPs in the United States- for one-third of the earth's population. THE (JON•CORDJEl'TSIS, FRIDAY, ()CTOBER 9, 1936 Teaching Gains Vh'ility Thm·sday, Oct. 8.-Harry T. I:..in- ton, associate superintendent of schools in Schenectady, in a speech in daily a::ltiembly today declared that the profession o.f teaching has assumed a virility that leaves open a wide qpportunity for· the enter- prising college student. Once teaching was looked upon as a temporary expedient to a vari- ety of other things. said Mr. Linton but within the past few years it ha~ taken on the dignity of a profession in itself with a training course that is as rigid .as that for law or medi- cine. He pointed out that once teach- ing was considered a \sissy's job\ and even \some of you have been the victims of old Ichobod Cranes and dioappointed Old Maids.\ But therP arc men and women of charm and per~onality now who are teach- mg. A f<>w requirements in person· ality, instruction. an.d attitude for a good tPaC'hPr today were also given by Mr. !Jinton. - -0----- Former C'oncordy Editor Weds Dr. and Mrs. A. R. Warner of 825 CPntral Parkway have announced the marriage tomorrow of their daughter, Hilda Barbara, to Robert Halleek Smith '34, formE'!' news edi- tor of The Concordlensis. Philoma thean Notice The first meeting of the Philoma- thean Society will be held Monday night in the Old Chapel at 7:30 o'clock. All members and any in- terested in debati.ng are urged to attend. Jewish· Collegiate Rally Will Be Held Sunday All Jewish students at Union, ir- res}lective of their organ·izational affilla...tic>ns, are invited to attend a colleg-iate rally at the Jewish Com- mu.nlty Ce'nter, 300 Germania Ave., this Surtday morning, October 11, at 10:30 o'clock, at Which time Dr. Alnarn Laon Sacha1·, Professor of Histo :ry at the Unlver sity of Illinois, will a.dcLress them. Dr. Sach.ar, who is being bi\ought to Scl!enectady to lead an institute -of fiv-e lectures at the Jewish Com- munity Center this week-end, is also .national director of Hillel Flountdation-·an organization devot- ·ed t() cultural, religious, and social wot•lc among Jewish students at Illi- nois. Wiscon>:lin, Ohio .State, Michi· gan, Cornell, Texas. N01thwe>:ltern, Alabama, Penn State, and We,;t Virgi;nla. An <open f01 um will follow the I lecture .. Admission is free. . ---- --0- ----- Place~uent Office Asks A.U Seniors to Repot·1 CALENDAR Tonight 8:00· p. m.-Mounteban.ks ·Try- outs fot· Valentine Kataev's \Sql..lariug the Circle, Mounte\ banks Theatre. 'TOinOl'l'OW 10:00 a. m.--Daily Assembly, A. ward of Berg an.d Gads Scholarship Cups, Memorial Chapel. 2:00 p. rn.--Freshman Foo~baH, 1Jnlon vs. Middlebury, Alexan- det• Field .. 2:30 p. rn.~Varslty Cross-coun- try,. Union vs. Vermont, Alex- ander Field. 2:00 p. m.- Vat·slty Football, ·1Jnion vs. Swarthmor•e, Swarth- more, Swarthmore, Penn. Sunday 11.00 a. m. Sunday Set·vices, Dr. Elrnet· A. Tidmar>lh, Me- nwrial· Chapel, 4 :()0 p. rn.-Organ Recital, Dr. Elme1 A. Tidmarsh, Memorial Chapel. Monday lO:IJU a. m. -Special Student Body Meeting, Old Chapel. Smith., Vaughan Attend Gm1verneur Conference All seniors are asked to report to . th.e Placement Office, Room 6, Administration Building, between now and October 2·1. The schedule Pmfessors E. S. Smith and Mr. ·i~ as follows: Octobet· 5 through 10, Henry Vaughan during the past F. M- Alexander through M. Froe- week-end attended a conference of lich; 0ctober 12 through 17, F. W. the Society of Economic Geologists Fr<Jst, :rr., through R. C. Moon, and in the vicinity of Gouverneur, New October· 19 through 24, C. Morrison York ·over seventy-five geologists throU!gl1 G. Witbeck. Whether you were in attendance, representing plan to attend graduate school, a!- colleges, universities, and mining ready- 'have a position or are look- companies throughout the eastern ing Eor work, it is expected that Un.ited States. The conference you will call at the placement office studied talc, zinc, and l'ead mines, ·in order that the records may be for IVhlch this area has been fa- up ta. date. I m()US f()r over one hundred years. F. E. Townley '36 Elected. To Graduate C()uncil Thursday, Oct. 8. - Francis · E:- Townley, Jr., was elected· Graduate Council 1 epresentative !or t)le class of 1936 this noon at the first senior ' class meeting of the year. · A~ the same .time, nominations for other senior class of.fices we~e : made. -The elections wHI be held m Dally Assembly late next week. The men nominated a1'e: President, Ernest Brown, Beta Theta Pi; Robert Ev.erest, Delta Delta Phi; Wells Dennison, Phi Upsilon; Richard Snyder, Alpha Gamma pelta; and Norman R. Stewart, Chi Psi. Vice-President: Sherman Hirst, ln.dependent; Frank Phillips, Delb Phi· Frank Gatchell, Psi Upsilon, Vib~rt Fryer, Beta Theta Pi; and Laurence Clinton, Phi Delta Theta. Secretary: Burns Barford, Delta Upsilon; William Connolly, Inde- pendent; Carl Marshall, Chi Psi; Wallace R. Hughes, Alpha Doelh · Phi·; and Jack Tinkle, Kappa Nu. T.reasurer: Franklyn Converse, Independent; Frank Gatchell, Psi Upsilon; Kenneth N. Brown, Belta Phi; Donald Fenton, Delta Upsi- lon; Paul Higgins, Phi Delta Theta; and Richard Passenger, Chi Psi, Historian: Fenton Gage, Delta Upsilon; William Doney, Phi Delta Theta, and Geot·ge Haskell, Alpha Delta Phi. Mounteba:tl!lis (Cbntinued, from Page n __ with \capitalist comforts\ and the other- Spartanly barren and. lievoid of .fo()d~with a revolt taking place in the· minds of the two husbands each of whom want the \comforts\ he se.€s missing in his. room_ The principal male roles are Ab- ram, a jovial, .good natu1•ed youth; Vasya, a young man of 11or:nzally serious inclinations who has been made uncomfortable by Luclmilla whotn he married to get added warmth £rom her protnlsecl quilts; Emllf.an, .a hulking, athletle figure, abounding in health, vitaLity- and .good ·nature, amusingly boastful and vainglorious, and .Jf :he!s not much: of a poet in s•pite of his ,pre- tensions, he offers compens-ation in the t>ossession of a beautiful' sing- ing voice which he ·cah u.se with great .power; Boris Novikov, the district organizer, a man of ,rn.iddle agE, .a gentle and very quiet Indi- vidual, completely unpretentbus and yet a person who, in St>lte of a kindly a.nd tolerant understanding of human errors, can .become :fanat- ically firm .if those errors in:tevfere . with ~he \progress of the revolution and the Communistic cause;\ Ra:b- inovitch, a young Semite, j:ust :cut- ting :his eye-teeth in Co-mtnunls:m, who takes himself and his r-esponsi- bilities so serious that he can be funny; and two minor·characters. ••sq uaring the Circle!' wiH be ,pre- sented by the Mountebanks on N~vember 20, 21 and 23. CLO'VERLAND CREAMERY FOR PROMPT SERVlCE PHONE 2·4265 919 STATE ST. ' -It's a liqht Smoke! KIND TO YOUR THROAT- A Light Smoke There's a friendly relax- ation in everypuff and a feeling of comfort and ease when your ciga- rette is o Light Smoke of ricn, ripe·bodied tobacco -A LUCKY. Copyright 1936. '1'110 American Tobnceo Company As Gentle as it is Delicious! For Lucky Strike is not merely mild and mellow in taste, but a genuine light smoke which always treats you: gently. You: will find ic easy on your throat, kind when you inhaJe, friendly all day long. If you believe in a gentle smoke, you be- lieve in Lttckies.' Among all cigarettes, this is the one which .offers you the -welcome protection of that famous process known to the world as \It's Toasted.\ And this is the om that millions turn to-for deliciousness. for protection, for:: all-day smoking pleasure! Luckies are A Light Stnoke of rich, ripe-bodied tobacco. * * NEWS FLASH! * * \Sweepstakes\ employs 6,000 to address entries! Over 6,000 )leople are employed in ad- dressing return entry cards for that: great national cigarette game, Your Lucky Strike \Sweepstakes.\ Entrie~ come from evc·ry State in the Union. Have you entered yet? Have you woll. your Luckies-a llat tin of 50 delicious Lucky Strikes? Tune in \Your Hit: Parade\-Wedlllesdayand Saturday eve- nings. Listen, j.udge, and compare the tunes - then a:ry Your Lucky Strike \Sweepstakes.\ And if you'r-e not already smokin~ Luckies, buy a pack today and tty them~ too. Maybe :you've been missing some- thing. You'll appreciate the advantage~ ofLuckies-a Light Smoke of rich ripe- bodied tobacc~. ' - \IT'S TOASTED\ l ;. !' I I I i l For: Fi1 Spe1 Lect Vol. LX., : Physic: At Uni In Nat President To Cone Work , Test by I Ft·eshmen omores 3: Rest Students c gain a much knowledge of the average : leges througl cording to tho comprehensiv sics given la and sophomo1 The results were reported today by Dr. the departmE dent Dixon I work in the < in a statemen In a test o chanics, soun by the Amer for students Union freshrn age score 26o/c erage of 3234 took the exa1 participating i below Union. Sopho1 The averag Union soph01 magnetism, Iii sics was 33% 1714 other stu institutions 1 corresponding ranked below In comment Fox made the \I have just lE ard physics College fresh1 top twelfth of sophomores· i! Naturally we Union in the ~elect best in 1 there wt>re st: iors and senio the second y ment and we men t goes on. A cornparisc students thro who were cia nearing phy Union's fresh! 21% above th engineering st ornore class tiona!. 'Unless sorn dent precipita will not fight, ford to do s· Union '29, tole he visited SchE year stay in E \The avera! peasant abhorl ing lived throt the wm·Id · trenches,\ he < because of within all easl tries, and the I engendered bJ freedom of mf have been par1 garian empire, countries are last drop of bl• .Mr. Tonesk Slavonic literal graduation frc sent abroad o the Kosciuszk• tute of Inter and studied at sity irt PraguE versity in Kra sity of Warsav has been resea those countrie: now an author \The wholel~l. a matter of alii the countries I tion to the 'I' Toueslt ex:plain of any particu whole setup is

n the lievoid place bands are Ab- youth; been added q_ uilts; figu.re, a.nd boastful not his ]H:e- in slng- wit-h the ·Iniddle et indi- of a tanding uti on ;\ Ra:b- :cut- ca.:n be be ,pre- on ST. ' ! ' I I I i l i. Forster First Spencer Lecturer Physics Students At Union :Rate High Vol. LX., No. 7 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1936 PRICE FIVE CENTS Physics Students At Union Are High In Natioaal Exams The First Woman Facult-v M.mnber at Union 1!1eets Her StaJi MRS. EDWARD ELLERY bderna tionalist Will Give Initial Spence.r Lecture President Fox In Statement; 'f() Concordiensis Praises Wo1·k -of Department Test hy Physical Society Ft·eshmen Score 26%, Soph-. omores 33% Higher Than Rest of Country Students of ph.ysics at Union gain a m-uch more comprehensive knowledge of thelr subject than do the average students in other col- leges throughout the country, ac- cording to the results of a. uniform comprehensive set of tests In phy- sics given last June to freshmen · and sophomores in 107 institutions. The results of the examination were reported to The· Concordiensis, today by Dr. P. I. Wold, head of the department of physics. Presi- dent Dixon Ryan Fox praised the work in the department of physics in a statement issued today. In a test of three parts on me-· ·--·-· -·. _ .. -- --- ----·---- - Miss Miriam D0;yle, vice-president of Law•ence Rivers, Inc., and the fil'st woman to hold an official a.cademic positi()n at Union, dines with her new staf:f at Hale House before holding tr·youts Friday night for the Mountebanks' first production, Valentine Kataev's \Squa1•ing the <Jircle.\ With her at the right is Earle Mitchell, a supervising director in the Fede1'al Theatres Project, who will direct \Winter- set\ and \The Wind and the Rain\ for the campus theatre, and at the left is Milton M. Enzer graduate manager of the Mountebanks. Miss Doyle will rettun to the campus soon after Election Day t() put the cast through the final stages of rehearsal. MrH. Adelaide 'True Ellery, wife of Dr. Edward Ellery, died suddenly at her home in South College at one o'clock this afternoon . Mrs. Ellery was born in Waterville, Maine, and mar- ried Dr. Ellery . in 1909, five years after he came to Union. Mrs. 'Ellery was one of the most active leaders in the social and domestic life of the campus. The Concordiensis, on behalf of the Faculty and Student Body, takes this opportunity of expressing their sympathy. Alumni to Gather· W. Arnold Forster, Disarma- anent Auth()rity, to Speak On Monday, October 19 Briiliant Record .A f t e r Distinguished War Service Became Active In Peace Groups Here October 16 18 . W. Arnold Forster, England's in- . • ter:nationalist authority on disarm· • am.ent, will open the Ichabod Spen- cer foundation lecture series next Colleg·e Week-End Will In-· :ruonday night, October 19, when he elude Buffet Luncheon, vvlll speak on \The Present Arma- r:ne:nts Rae: Can It Be Stopped in Visits, President's Tea Time?\ Dr. Sylvanus G. Morley, archeologist, will speak on \The Ma:ya Civilization\ In the second lEcture, on November 17. Distinguished Service chanics, sound and heat, made up ----------------------------------------------------------------~--~-------------------------­ The Union College family of Alumni, students, friends, and col- lege officials, will get together in the annual informal College Week- End celebration whic will take place from Friday until Sunday. Alumni from all parts of the coun- try have been invited to attend the program of :meetings, dinners, lec- tures, and athletic contests which have been scheduled for the three days. M:r. Arnold had a distinguished wat> record and then served as sec- r-etary to Lord Cecil's special dis- armament campaign in 1927-28. He was director of the international course for speakers on disarma- ment at the Ecole Internationale in Geneva and lectured at the Zim- ooet>n .School at the Geneva Insti- t'llte of International Relations in 1!!32, following his attendance at .t!Je meetings of the Disarmament Co11.ference in 1932. At present he Is a. member of the Advisory Com- ltllttee on International Affairs of E::ngland's Labor Party and techni. cal adviser of the National Peace Cou.ncil. by the American Physical Society for students in college physics, Union freshmen attained an aver- age score 26'}1. hi•4her than the av- erage of 3234 college students who took the examination. Out of 107 participating institutions, 95 ranked below Union. Sophomores Higher The average score obtained by Union sophomores in electricity, magnetism, light, and modern phy- sics was 33% higher than that for 1714 other students; and out of 57 institutions participating in the c<lrresponding work, 54 of them ranked below Union. In commenting on the results, Dr. Fox made the following statement; \1 have just learned that the stand- ard physics tests placed Union College freshmen last year in the top twelfth of 107 colleges and the sophomores in the top fourteenth. Naturally we are gratified to see Union in the company of the few flelect best in physic8 W£> only wish there wc>re standard tests for jun- iors and seniors, for we nQtice that the second year shows improve- ment and we think the irnpi·ove- ment goes on.\ A comparison of ;ocores made for students throughout the country who were classed as taking engi- neering physics showed that Union's freshman class score was 21% above the national score for engineering students and the soph· omore class 25% above the na- tionaL ·clark Cummings To Head Debaters Election Makes Guy Graves Vice-President, Honikel Secretat'Y-Treasure!' Monday, October 12.-Clark Cum- mings, '37, was elected president of the Philomathean Society at its first regular meeting last night. The members also chose Guy Graves, '37, vice president, and Charles Honikel, '38, secretary and treasurer .. Charles Reeves, manager of De- bating, announced plans for the coming year. The fi'rst of a series of seven debates, which will be broad- cast over station WGY, will be held on Nov. 12 at 11:415 P. M., the sub- ject of discussion being \Consum- e!,.:; Cooperatives.\ The other two with Hamilton, March 6, and Dart- radio debates already scheduled are mouth, May 6. Besides these radio debates, six trips are planned for the coming year. Of these, three have been made definite. They are with Bowdoin Jan. 9, M.I.T. Feb. 12 aud Rutgers Feb. 19. Besides these official appearances, the Philomathean Society has also arranged an informal discussion with Skidmore. This meeting will be held some time before election, the topic of the discussion being \The Issues of the Campaign.\ Will Not Fight,\ ~'Europe Says, After Tomesk Abroad Five Years \Unless some unlooked-for inci- dent precipitates a crisis, Europe will not fight, because she can't af· ford to do so,\ William Tonesk, Union '29, told reporters today as he visited Schenectady after a five- year stay in Eastern Europe. \The average workingman and peasant abhors fighting, after hav· ing lived through the long years of the wm·Id War In mud-fllled trenches,\ he continued. \However because of intense propaganda within all eastern European coun- tries, and the feelings of patriotism engendered by the newly secured freedom of many of them, which have been part of the Austro-Hun- garian empire, the citizens of these cGuntries are willing to shed their last drop of blood if attacked. Mr. Tonesk has been working in Slavonic literature and a1 t since his graduation from Union. He was sent abroad on a fellowship from the :Kosciuszko Foundation, Insti\ tute of International Education, and studied at the Charles Univer-- sity iii Prague, the Jagiellon Uni- versity in Kracow and the Univer· sity of Warsaw. Much of his work has been research in the theater of those countries, upon which he is now an authority. \The whole;~jj:;urope!l.n situation is a matter of alrlla.nces between all of the countries Jbased on their reac- tion to the Treaty of Versailles,\ Toneslt explained. \In other words, of any particular nation in the whole setup is freindly or unfriend- ly to the two great powers involved, France or Germany. Their foreign policy is baseq on that relationship. Poland, 85 per cent of whose ter- ritory was used as a battlefield in the World War, is so afraid of in- vasion that she will sacrifice any- thing to keep fureign troops out of the country. The Little Entente, Czheko-Slovakia, Rumania and Yu- goslavia, who have gained their in- dependence as a result of the Ver- sailles Treaty, want the status quo.\ All of eastern Et11ope he said, is divided into two great camps for and against the status quo. The IeV!sionists group, led by the rem- nants of the former Austro-Hun- garian !lnlpire, l!o!an toward Ger- many, while those who have gained by the War are with France. It is Inter-esting to note, Tonesk said, that France and Ru~sia are tied to· gether by separate treaties with the Little Entente nations. \Poland because of her dread of invasion, will throw in with any nation against that party which would be the aggressor as far as her own native soil is concerned,\ he said. \According to Minister Beck's pronounceli::Jent made on January 2 of this y-ea1·, that -is the lteys.tone of Poland's foreign policy. The whole situation is aggravated by nutual uistrust and lack of con- fidence, .and to an extent which en- courages the various• countries to feel that the only way to ensure their well-being is throUgh arma- ments,\ Dowling Names Cast In Mountebanks Play Monday, Oct. 12.-The cast for ValentinE.' Kataev's farce of Russian life, \Squaring the Cir- cle;• was announced today by John B. Dowling, chairman of the Mountebanks executive committee, following tryouts held this weekend by Miss Mirriam Doyle, the director. Cast in the first campus pro- duction, which is scheduled for November 20, 21 and 23, are; Abram, Dowling; Vasya, Hy- man A. Enzer; IDmi!iap, S. Ralph Cohen; Novlkov, Freder- ick W. Frost; and Rabinovitz, Myer Reis. Understudies, who will also have bit parts in the play, are N. David Light, Jr., Robert H. Simmons, Tony Sh.arpe, Wil • liam W. Mulvey and M.urray B. Rosenfeld. The female roles of Ludmilla and Tonya have not as yet been definitely filled. The first rehearsal was held last night under direction of the stage manager, Dowling. He will hold all rehearsals until Miss Doyle arrives on campus again, soon after Election Day. Political Gr()ups On Campus Are Active Landon Club Organizes With Meeting Tonigltt; Roosevelt Club Hear Cohn '24 Complete organization of the Union College Landon Club will be effected this evening at a meeting of all interested students in Room 2, Washburn Hall, at 7:30 p. m. At this meeting, there will be an elec- tion of a chairman, a discussion of the national political is::.ues, and plans will be made for the rest of the campaign. The next meeting will take place within a week, probably on Froday, October 16, accol'ding to Frank Townley, '37, one of the six senior organizers of the Landon move- ment at Union. The Club plans, he said, to distribute campaign litera- ture, buttons, and stickers, hold discussions and othe1· actiVities in- cident to the campaign. The \Roosevelt fo1• Reelection\ Club held a meeting in the Old Chapel Wednesday night. About twenty members attended. Charles Reeves '37 introduced the speaker, Mr, Morris M. Cohn, '24. \The purpose of my speech is to try to install in you some of the ideals of democracy that you :rnay have a few simple thuoghts that you may drive home,\ began Mr. Cohn. \Roosevelt Is the greatest hUmanitarian since Lincoln, who is pointed to by the Republicans as their greatest humanitarian. No one since Lincoln can be compared to Roosevelt as a humanitarian. All of Roosevelt's policies have been prompted by his interest in human- ity.'' Danton Addresses Italian- Americans \Italy May Well Be Proud of Coluntbus,\ He Declares At Celebration \Italy may well be proud of Columbus, and Italy's pride in him should always include some meas- ure of a feeling for the ultimate virility of the Italian tradition,\ declared Professor George H. Dan- ton, head of the field of modern lan- guages at Union College, before the Federation of Italian-American So- cieties in the Columbus celebration at the Van Curler Hotel list night. Dr/ Danton pointed out that Columbus's reknowned achieve- ment was the result of the age and cultur£> predominant in Italy at the time of his important discovery. \Italy and the Renaissance,\ he said, \are inseparably connected and the same spirit that caused Columbus to point his prows west- ward, caused Petrarch to write hi:> wonderful s<;lnnet, 'Italia mia.' \ Dr. Danton drew a wide picture of the cultural and physical scope of Europe at the time of Columbus. He said that the \failure of the Crusades to accomplish any perma· nent Oriental settlements shows what small chance of real develop· ment there would have been in America had it been discovered years before Columbus.\ Begins Friday The program will open Friday afternoon when visitors will be es- corted to recitations or laboratory sections which they will have on their schedules at registration. The executive committee of the Gradu- ate Council will meet at 4:30 p. m. in the Administration Building. Following the dinner, which will be held in Hale House, a discussion of present political trends will be led by Professor Patterson H. French in the faculty lounge of Hale House. Saturday morning alumni and friends will be welcome at all reci- tations or laboratory sections. Le- Roy J. Weed '01, alumni trustee and publishing house, will address the executive of the Ginn and Company coJIPgP body in the daily assembly program In the Memorial Chapel. Following the chapel program the fall meeting of the Graduate Coun- cil will take place in the trophy room in the gymnasium. The tradi- tional buffet luncheon will be held at noon in Silliman Hall. The Grad- uate Couucil will be the host on this occasion and invites all alumni and friends to attend. President Fox will speak at the luncheon. In the afternoon the varsity foot- ball team will play the University of Vermont on Alexander Field. Immediately after the football game Dr. and Mrs. Fo:x will receive alumni and guests at their home on the campus. . During the war, he served at the A.dooir-alty and Foreign Offices iu the administration .of the blockade a::nd later, in 1919, he was a member o:f the blockade and raw materials section of the Supreme Economic Cou.ncil in Paris. H]s books include \'The Victory o:f Reason,\ which deals with arbi- tt>aUon; and \The Disarmament C~n.ierence.\ He has written many articles on the freedom of the seas, and is a special writer for the Man- chester Guardian and the Political Q ua..rterly on problems of disarma- nxen t. Mr. Forst\r will be in re:oideuc\ on t.he campu.:; f10n1 Monday mur·n- ln.g, October 19, to Wednesday af- temoon, OctoL\r 21, lllt!t:t.ing stud· ents and faculty in round-table disc l.ls::;ion::; on in teruatiunal prob· !e-ms. Dr. Morley has been in charge of the Camegie Institution's (Wash- io.gt..<Jn, D. C.) archeological expe- ditions to Central America. He is an authority on Maya hieroglyphic writing and general problems of M:ay-a civilization. His lecture will be illustrated by colored lantern sndes and air views taken by Mrs. Lindbergh. America was fortunate In not being settled by a feudal Europe and in the same manner was for- tunate in being the product of the great Renaissance impulse, the zeal for discovery, the ardor for great journeys. In conffcluslun, Dr. Danton :laid; \and so finally, when we leave Columbus, a product of his age and his time, a noble representative of his race and family, sent out to the world by ·another group, interna- tional in it::; ::;cope, l:luccessful In his que.;;t for the unknown, imbued with the spirit of the Renaissance in hi~ culture, we find him a proper object for reverential consideration and are happy to honor him more now than ever he was honored in his lifetime.\ Heating Plant Grates Burn Bright To Warm CamputJ During Winter By SAMUEL \TNGER ·---~o----- Phi Beta Kappa Meets Honora.ry Society Will Choose New MeombPrs from SE.'nior Class At Meeting Wednesday Expec>ting to find Union's central boiler house a vest pocket edition of Dante's \Inferno a Concordien- sis reporter Monday was surprised to find the college steam plant ac- tually as cool and comfortable as a theater advertisement in August. Such coolness existed, even in the face of the fact that the flames were being fed two tons more of coal yesterday than the previous day before October's first cold snap came down the Mohawk to visit the campus. It was found by cross-examining the fireman then on shift that if it were not for the central heating plant, the residents of Kappa Al- pha, Psi Upsilon, Delta Upsilon, Phi The Union College Chapter of Gamma Delta, Alpha Delta Phi, Phi Beta Kappa will hold its an- and Chi Psi would suffer from ex- nual election Wednesday at 4:30 treme cold and exposure, while Pro- p. m. in room 107 Bailey Hall, when fessors Cummins, Mavor, and Dan- a number of Seniors will be named ton, as well as the civil engineering to membership. · building's janitor, would be in grave At the meeting, the date for the danger of freezing to death. initiation .banquet will be set and The boiler room employs each. arrangements made for a speaker. day four ·inen, one coal wheeler and 4,11 Phi .Beta Kappa members on three firemen, each 011 an eight the faculty are automatically mem.o · hour shift. \The boilers hold be- hers of the Union College chapter·, tween forty and fifty pounds of and are urged to attend this meet- steam. There is a flue temperature ing, Dr. Morton C. Stewart, secre- of 600 degrees,\ said the fireman. tary of the chapter said in an- Four boilers iined the interior, the nouncing the meeting. largest one of which, having a ca- paclty of 250 horse powe1·, bore the naue of the NagiP. Engine and ~llEr Works of Erie, Pennsyl· vani.a, while the other three, of 150 horse power each, had been made In the Ames Iron Works of Oswego. A.ltli.ough only two boilers were in operation on Monday, three of thern are in use during the winter, while one 'Is saved at all times for reserve use when one boiler- goes out of coml!llssion each month for clean- lag. \()h yes, the firemen have to watch the meters,\ answered the flreooan to one question, \or we W<OU.ldn't know what we were doing. We have to sh()vel all the coal, sometimes three-fo-urths of a ton an hour, which doesn't give a man lnUeh rest. Last year we used in all 270()o tons of soft coal.\ Ths amount of coal used annu- ally,.. according to computations, creates ninety times as much heat In .tile boilers as the annual feed of the Delta Upsilon fraternity pro- d'l!ces In D. U. stomachs. The cal- cuia.tion used In figuring ~is quan- tity was based on the heat content of t:he coal used which is 1400 B. t. u. per pound, and the number of la.rg-.e calories in food consumed by the average person, and the num- bet· eating at the D. U. house,

., I :\ ' '' ·i' '! Two THE' CONCORDIENSES, 'IIUESDAY, OCTOBE~R 13, 1936 AROUND THE WORLD By RICHARD SNYDER VOTE IN SENIOR ELECTIONS II ' - II Friday morning- the seniors wiii find bal- ( Q L U M N _ · lot:> for electing class officers in their cha:pel \===========~=====;;;;===~=~: seats. All seniors are urged to be thel'e to I! \Europe Threatened By War has P ublicity. It is also to be .noticed· been used as a headline so often in C!Lonr.or ~irnsiS \A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ FOUNDED 1877 vote fOl' the best men. Vote according to the NO'l'ES F@R A WEEK here that a certain dodderl_ng col- the pas.t two or three years that it I Being our own little version of umnist called F. H. was h1re~ _by i!3 hardly news to anyone. Yet, oddly !()36 Member l<J37 dictates of your own judgment, not to tiose The ShapeofThings to Come the committee as paid publle~ty enough, it has been true; true not of the busybody campus. politician. Politics Autu~-e;n~ S~cl!!:!ap~? falling agent at eighty~nlne cents a day. for the l'easons stated; but for more ~sedated CoUeeiiale Press · · d' f h' h He is quitting soon, being unable to important an.d less obvious reasons. is a most perlllCIOUS 1sease, rom W · lC cur leaves and rising prices. The co-op collect the eighteen years' back sal- .wvery country in the world is talk- campus can well .stay a:loof, if the students buying bas ibeen funcH_oni~g for aries due him. mg peace. Every country in the 20 years now. It is explame every * • * world anticipates war. Arms are Distributors of want to have any sort of a governing body. weelt in '1'he C<Jncordiensis, but no piling up all over the earth. These xr 1 h d'd t f l ff' 'II one und~·rsta·nds it yet. S. R. Chn You are hereby reminded that, same arms will be the tools Which he lOpe t e Can 1 a eS . Or C aSS 0 . H!eS \Nl offered to rnan~ge it but was pre-. h t X CoUe5iate DiBest Sole and exclusive national advertising representatives NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE:, lu'-'. 420 l\ladi:;on Avenu\ \no other small college · as a a will tempt mankind to carry out ue above deals, and will discourage every vented by Dr. Fx who feared committee like Union·s.\ N? ot~er the impulses manifest within him dumping In the )...utter market. h k rmk !Ike · New York City v.estige .of it that they find~ . small college has a oc ey as a result of past e:xper1ence, pres- • * * ours, either. ent threats, or future aillll!. So far ·Chicago - Boston - San Francisco - Los Angele,; Portland - Seattl<d The official newspaper of the students o_f Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fri- days throughout the college yeat•, except dur· ing Christmas and Spring recesses. __ ·- Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second- Class Mail Matter ---==_:__~-~----:--·--­ Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. _ Senior Board Norman R. Stewart ............. Editor-in-Chief Chi Psi Lodge-4·6527 S. Ralph Cohen .......•.•..... Managing Editor Silliman Hall-4·Ulo3 Fenton A. Gage .•................. News Editor Delta Upsilon Hou,e- -4·7~22 . :Milton D. Bedell .................. Sp01ts Ed1tor Delta Upsilon House-4-7~22 Donald Ford ......... , .... Circulation :Manager Chi Psi Lodge-4-6527 James W. Righter ........... Business Manager Delta Upsilon House-4-7922 ----· __ _ Junior Board ASSOCIATE EDITORS Carl Trahman Willard Dean Edward Barry Robert Doig Hyman Enzer Henry Hartmann Robert Ferguson Melvin Muroff Sophomore Boat·d Assistant Edit(}rs M. Depp, F. Hequembourg, P. Humphrey, W. Hitchcock, D. Taft, R. Walter, R. Morgan, D. Miller, .T. O'Brien, B. Rathbun, J. Smith. Issue Editor. .. lL Hat·tmann Assistants Robert Doig \V. Hitchcock R. Walter Tuesday, October 13, 1936 WHY CLASS OFFICERS? The Graduate Couneil, with the approval of Dr. Fox, is going to take steps to reinstate class officers in the under-classes. \It is a movement to inct·ease clas:::; consciousness,\ says Dr. Waldron, \so that the members of the class will present a uniform and well organized front as alumni.\ Here the point is well made. Leaders will give class con- sciousness to their groups, depending of course, on whether or not Lhe leaders are capable. The fallacy of such a system, as Dt. Waldron presents it, is that the students cannot choose the right leadet·s. Generally the popular athlete or the astute politician manages to control the .elections, and, as a result, incompetent men become the leaders. Junior Prom and Student Council elec- tions, which took place last yea1', showed evidences of having been fixed. A small group of boys, unknown in student activities, organized themselves so stmngly that they more or less deleg-ated positions to their friends. Such flagrant abuse of a trust is disgraceful. However, when the opportunity of manipulating elections presents itself, only an honest man will remain aloof while the more morally degenerate pa1ticipates in it. THE NATURE OJt' REALITY Under the scrutiny of Dr. Irving Lallg- muir, associatl:l director of the Genentl Elec- tric Company's research laboratories and frequent lecturer at Union, the myste1·ie.s which surround a living cell were partially explained. Dr. Langmuir created from sim· ple chemicals inanimate substance that sim- ulates iu behaviour and properties the cell wall of the units of living matter. This dis- covery will open to biology a vast new .fi€ld. The philosopher, too, will be inte1·ested in thb, fm· the revelation, while it does not point out the nature of reality, will bring him closer to its solution. l\luch of life is obscm·ed because nobody undet·stands what muttet· is. Here Dr. Langmuir app€ars .tu l..>e on the right track, and he may find out mol'e to di1·ect him in the future. Some of the tenets of religion may fall before this with- ering attack as it did wh.en Darwin edited hi::; theory of evolution in the Origin of the Species. Philosophy will have to altet· 1nany of its interpretations of mattet· and lift> if science steals a march on it and dete1·mines the constituents of reality. Dl'. Langmuir hopes that the new syn- thetic \life wall\ would lead to the establish- ment Df some principle of \gTeat use to the I.Jiologist in understanding the complicated dependence of living cells upon the composi- tion of the surrounding medium.\ This work may possibly link itself to that which Dr. .Alexis Carrell of the Rockefelle1· Fouudu- tion is pursuing. If this comes to p-ass man may presumably live ad infinitum: his wom out part could be replaced with new ones of synthetic nature, and the diseased organs patched up. The scale upon which the chemists can study the properties of the cell is inc1·eased considerably, revealing i.n detail parts wl1kh under normal circumstances would be too minute to see. It will assist future study of cell life, and if for no other reason than this it ::;hould be conside1·ed important. And at Other Colleges . . . Pope Pius has decided on the cr·eation of an inter- national academy of science, to be known as the PONTIFICAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCE. He will select the first seventy members, eminent scientists in biology, mathematics, chemistry, medicine, and so forth, who will choose their successors. .. YALE'S Division of General Study, a g1·aduate school giving no doctor's degrees, is entering its sec- ond year with a d(}ubled registration. Added emphasis is being placed on the importance of student activities outside of classrooms and is be- ing stressed at RENSSELAER POLY'l'ECHNIC INSTITUTE. .. Student soap box orations, election, and a trium- phant torchlight parade for the theoretically success- ful candidate for president will be preceded at MOUNT HOLYOKE by a series of lectures on the political and economic issues of the campaign as well as actual addresses by the candidates. * .. * The UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER is opening a new twenty-four room pychology laboratory l'eputed to be \adequate for all research!' * * * SMITH COLLEGE will combine its an.nual Alumni Week-end this year with a visit by pre-college guests. * .. BRYN MAWR COLLEGE has adopted a new plan for the exchange of graduate students between BRYN MAWR and institutions in France, Spain, Italy, and Germany. * \' ... Dr. Tyler Dennett, president of WILLIAMS COL- LEGE, stressed the need for eight new buildipgs and a 20 percent increase in a higher-salaried instl·uction staff on the Williamstown campus. * * These conditions have happened in the past, are happening· now, and in the future there are no assurances that they will not continue to happen. As far as we can see, the only ways to eliminate the abuse of cam- pus politics are to dispense with the offices or to have a disinterested party controlling elections. The students, we doubt, will ap- prove the latter method, and since the ad- ministration wants class officel's, the for~ mer is the only other alternative. It does not seem fair to the students to l1ave the admin- istration force itself on us in questions of UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA and LEW\ND stud.ent government: We sugg-est that the STANFORD UNIVERSITY have announced a ten- administration keep their hands off this · year program to end tuberculosis in their respective student bodies. The program embraces virtually every election. test and curati:l[e method known to mOdern .science. Mr. Zb:mc k has grown a long \ • * as Europe is concerned, affairs white beard v;hich he wears in Hitler has taken over the counti·~· nave reached an impasse. The real thl ee br-aid.s .symbolic of Music, The only person who is pleased lS cause of this condition can be Granumtl\ all\1 t.he French Acad- ::>inclair Lewis who's going ar-ound ~raced to the iron Will of Clemen- emy. H~ ha~ ·\wi,;ely) given up ::;aying, \l told you so.\ '!'he Boy- <!eau, whose disgust for a righteous clothes and wears his academic Democrats of the campus beat the peace to end tne world war pre- gown to cla>lses. It is embroidered Boy-Republicans to Washingt«?n by vailed over Wilson's liberal Four- with seVL!Il impolite idiom,;. He may thi1ty-five minutes. Acco<dmgly, teen Pomts. Students of today are have to part 'I.Vith the beard, al- they were able to join the Na~l witnessing events leading up to a though h.e enj<>ys tying the ends ·Of party first and could accuse then .::hange in h1story. The 1easons for two of the braids together and opponents of being Non-Aryan. ~uwpean foreign policy run deeply. playing ski:p·l'.()pe with the loop However the fact that S. R. Chn l'hey are not superrtcial events thus fmrned. However. last week he was a up and coming young Demo- which seem to provoke a crisis; became so in1•<>1ved with hls whis- cra:t caused some confusion. At last rather, they are fear, jea:lousy, kers while reciting the future of both campus parties were accepted pride, amb 1 tion, and f1ustrated ouvril·. that he got lost. Christian as faithful followers of Der Feuhrer , 11 m::;. Any event such as the mur- charity induced his clas,; to look upon their promise to become Boy uer of an important European for him. They finally found him, Scouts. Jigure will only be incidental to the also a terra-C()-tta. statutte of Wag- * • * next war, according to the best ner and seven. tr-anslations of the The Student Council doesn't students. Some ,eighteen yea1s ago, novels of T'hor-ne Smith. know which way to tUJn. The beaten nations were bottled up. .. ... . The Mountebanks are putting on a double feature bill: Anthony Ad- verse and Cm:nllle. * * • R. C. Snu.r has not yet graduated, having said that he would rather flunk ail his cour:ses than leave the Student Tax C<Jm.mittee. He calls a committee meeting every Wednes- day in chapel. so that the student body wiLl surely, lmow what's going on. He ha.s taken over the Con- cordy with th-e same end in view. That rag has, accordingly, not ap- peared for 1·h·ee years and six months. They sa.y that R. C. Sndr is soon to have a conference with W. R. Hearst atl.d Jean Ha.rlow to see if a goGd s4Candal can't be work- ed up toO get th\\ committee ,;ome CINEMA By JOHN B. DOWLING The TPxas Rangt>rs, current at Proctor's lhl'Ollgh Wedne>sday, and !tomona., now replaced at the State by \D1n::l't 'l'tLJI'll 'Em Loose,\ bore each other u cu.l\ious relation. Ro· mona, deopite 1l::J romantic charac- ter, is a st1·ong indictment of the treatme:11t of the Indians of Cali- fornia by the whites. The social Nazis don't like it and the Tax J!'or those same eighteen years Committee has been after it for those nations have been m1ll!ng years anyway. R. D. vrst is taking around in that bottle, their inmost opium now and has had to resign feelings have expanded and filled f10m the college 'l. We never could the atmosphere with an ominous feature him as a Christian anyway. color. When that bottle Will burst Flash-The faculty has resigned. no one knows. The Tax Committee has chained Germany, in response to the de the Student Council to the library mands of certain nations that she and tried to take over. But F. H. will carry on. He has barricaded devalue her currency to keep step with te rest of the world, has re- the Ad Bldg and is serving as pres- plied that she will do so only if ident and both deans. Une coup ner colonies are restored to her. d'etat, n'est-ce pas? F. H. You are again 1·eminded that \no other small college has a tax com- mittee like Union's.\ Neither has any other small college a set of twenty unwired lights In the middle of its library. ~ howevel', the chance went begging. Since Romona has been super- seded by Don't Turn 'Em. Loose, an expo~ure of the parole racket, it will not be reviewed at greater length. But while concerned with In other words, the world is to pay tor Germany's participation in the 1mmorai act. of devaluation. Ger- man.y hopes to worry world econ- omists until her demands are met. Bolivia and Paraguay are restive again. The president of Bolivia has declared that his country will no longer participate in the peace negotiations. 'l.'he six arbitrating nations attempting to settle the dispute are powerless to stop any conflict. should the Chaco war oreak out again. photography I might remark that ~ I was not impressed with the tech- ~ THE THEATRE nicolor in Romona. The process does afford occasional moments of beauty, but the persistent bluish :..-============--' cast in the color is annoying. Com- plete adoption of color has not the urgency that the coming of sound had, and until the process is better, color will not be generally used. (\Moon Over Mulberry Street,\ produced at the Capitol Theatre, Albany, by Jack Stern. Written by Nicholas Consentino. October 12-17.) differences, the inferior position I I The inevitable failure which oc- held by the Indians, and the semi- SECRET SERVICE I curs· when one actor, however bril- legal land grabbing practiced by liant, is forced to carry an entire the white men upon the Indians motivate the whole film. The Texas -=============;;;;;.!. performance was repeated last Rangers, on the other hand, repre- For numerous years alumni and night in \Moon Over Mulberry sents th~ fndians of Texas as sav- friends of the college in Schenec- Street\ at the Capitol. Except fot· age, inhu:mart marauders. That tady have been chirping about the th t W\l 1 bo.th :;ides of the stru!<:gle are over e s ar, I 1 am Edmunds, the - price of football ducats. The local emphasized for the purpo:;e of the Chamber of Commerce has fruit- cast of last night's play did their respecli've plc\t·m·es Is to be expect- lessly tried to obtain. a reduction, best to spoil one of the most hu ed. Rornou.a. !>resents its case more but no dice. The empty bleachers at morous comedies of recent years. believal>ly as a major theme. The the Middlebury game seem to point oppo,;ite side of the question figures that something is out of focus. It William Edmunds, as an old more as an Incident to The Texas doesn't matter whether your seat is Italian janitor, gave a performance Rangt>rs. In both. film::; the result is th 50 d good entertainment. on e -yar line or on the 3, you which was sympathetic, lively, and get soaked the same $1.65. The poor killf 1 H WhPn r.~nd MacMun:ay, Jack duck who only wants to put out s u · e never faltered once in Oakie, and Lloyd Nolan are sur- six-bits doesn't stand a chance and his dialect or acting. Indeed, it prised by a posse after having it doesn't help the \town-gown\ seemed that as the role grew more robbed a stagecoach, the filst two feeling much. We keep yelling for d\ff' It th t h succeed in. e.scaping and become 1 ICU a e played it eve1 support but how the devil can you b tt T separated from Nolan. They finally get it when to many aforemen- e et·. he part was full of possi sign on as 'l'~xas R.anger, as a way tioned would-be loyal boosters the bility and Mr. Edmunds made the of getting room and board with ante is too high. most of it. the added incentive of continuing as bandits un.de1· the protection of * * • But even the greatest actor cal the law. This plan seems on the What is a bigge1· farce than our not \carry\ an entire performance verge of full fruition when they so-called Student Body Meetings- At some time it must be left in the find Nolan smuggling cattle and you name it. Not more than 10% hands of the other members of the help him. But it soon becomes evi- of the three upper classes attend cast. When this happened in \Moon dent th.at both men are catching and rightly so, for all the good it Over Mulberry Street\ the results the spi.rit of the Rangers. After does them. It's gotten so the Secre- were disastrous. Slipping contin MacMurray performs heroically in tary doesn't even bother to show ually out of dialect and character putting do'INn. an Indian uprising up and in short all the affair faltering, and often looking as Oakie l>reaks with the outlaws. But amounts to is a couple of college though they had wandered on the MacMurray doesn't give up his songs and an opportunity for the stage by acciden.t, the minor mem banditr:y until he cleans up a cor- boys to wield the rubber stall!Jl or bers of the cast almost made the rupt county and refuses to let air their pet theory. All the young play a farce. If this was the cast Nolan take it over. They part ami- clucks in the upper-declt get out of which played the show in New cably but Npl2n begins to terrorize it is the \bird\ and the Concordy York for a year, then New York the state with. his continuing raids. gets a bit with which to pad the theatre-goers must be a lot dumber Then after eornp>lications the Rang- paper. Otherwise the results are ~han us upstate yokels. If the Cap ers manage to :rld the country of negligible. We know it's easy to 1to1 must advertise \the New York him. MacMurray is again a hero criticize, but why fool ourselves cast a.:nd production\ which it ob a.nd gets tho <laughter of the Ran- into thinking we have student gov- viously does not get, it might at gers' commander. ernment? least have those actors who dp ap Essentially 'Tke Texas Rangel' is * \' * pear practice a little before the a glorified horse-opera. It escapes It used to be around these parts initial performance. the evils and maintains the that the editorial page of this scan- H strengths of the western thanks d 1 owever, to this wholesale con to Director King; Vidor and' the act- a -s~eet was worth reading from demnation of the cast a couple of th. e VIewpoint of constructive criti- exce ti t ine: of tile cas:t members, maJ'or and N P ons mus be made. Olga - c1sm. ow it might as well be Druce t k th 1 ·· minor. Vidor uses the devices so . 00 e ro e of Nina Bacol cal.led a rehash of the weel•'s news. mi an E t S'd r long a ]lart o:f the western thriller w h • • as - I e talian girl, well to good effect-. rhe hero has a low It all that might be printed, why Although her acting was far from does our editions have to print perfect · 1 t · comedy foil, _ there are galloping h t . In as lllght's performance w a might illy grace a grade- 1t shone f th \ horses can-yJ.n~ messengers, am- school circular? or as a beacon in the bushes by- In<tians, sparse love- dark.ness.\ .Adelina Roattino gave making and the final chase of vll- * \' * a~ unpecable performance in a lain by hero, \With these raw situa- It seems too bad that a certain mmor role, but her nationality tions he fashi-ons a direct, effective fey.r of the boys work 60 hard gath- made it more or less a \natural\ action pic'tur~ by skilfully trim: ermg votes in. our ever-present part. ming t\hem of their rawness and campus politics for the dubious \Moon Ov!'lr Mulberry Street\ was making the characters In them be- gl~ry of seeing their names in also adverhsed as a comedy with lievable. Here note the further de- p~mt. It would be much easier to \music.\ The \music\ was some of velopment of Jack Oakie as a low h1t the bottle at Saratoga and of the worst drivel ever to come comedian of merit. Outdoor pho- place the responsibility in the out .of Tin Pan Alley. Perhaps the tograph:v lend.s itself to unobtrusive hands of W. Mulvey. Cap1to1 management is too arnbi brilliance in e::xecution·. In this tihn, Es, liJs & 'Dee. tious. M:or~ good acting and le~s \\ 'ballyh()o ;migb.t fill the theatre. Varsi As F Qual\:er's l Weath Garn The Union went, saw ·.t: q uered for tl this season a more eleven · of the season by injuries ar. conditions, tJ did not show and spirit a: Swarthmore, for the entire 7 to 0. Swarthmol'E paratively Jig several fres: tricky runner first yea-r rna of Ernie Bro' ond quarter 1 and the only He tossed a ·1 extra point ar ed with every The brunt ( rying was ag: and Thomas, and tackles t 135 yards. Ge1 his first varsi the pigskin a Union was l straight week goal line, for went as far line before it by the half \' Fail The Dutchr very bad case cal point, for points to exa There have be ous scoring particular a1 made of them to be the logi' on for the firs up showed se1 very light tear so the hea vie have opened abandon. Hov able to explai: line to do thi trouble in gett noon. The visitor mont, possese against Unio1 Union, has n< ent's goal lir game should I Nitchman will he has no oth a game, and the lineup changed by th will be the s< the year, am stand for pra the only exce1 jaunt over to .Score by pe Swarthmore . Union ...... . Garnet Verm(] Long-legged up to all the been said abot; short-legged s to follow in sloppy going scend, Vermc country team from the Gar day. Vermont as a strong cl no time en ro prove it. Last ners found t strong when t mont course, surprise to see team romp ho Of course on sophomores, w the Ketz-coach done better, l that it was a v won in convil1 Triple ~ Hawkes, tl moved around the fast time utes and thirtJ little Dave GrE of the way it the possibility William this s1 behind Hawke tain Lamson a a dead heat fo Wells, a stock er, put in appe Union runner any Union tea been done, 1 Lehrer of V' next the verdi ard Sheffer an larger membe: nucleus, were with Denton a: a throbbing b1 stretch, Dento: a paper thin n: sensation in fifth Garnet re Handicapped ) ~011Jd do UQ l

r has in it oddly e not more talk- the are out him pres- fa.r real n be ... pre- Four- y are to a for eeply. mur- the best ago, up. years filled burst de she step re- if her. pay the Ger- econ- met. has no peace e the p any war _ij by oc- bril- entire last !berry pt for the their hu- old in ed, it more even possi- the can in the of the 'Moon as the mem- the cast New York Cap- York it ob- at ap- the con- of Olga , well. the gave in a with me of come ps the am bi- lellS Varsity Takes As Frosh Score Third Loss Opener ' In THE CONCORDIENSES, 'J.1UESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1936 dlebury sent In a bunch of subs in II Council Field; Sigma Phi vs. win- one instant so that het· coach could 'II ner Kappa Sigma-Lambd·a Chi tell in which direction his teaDJ • INTRAMURALS Alpha game, Alexander Field. was going. But the condition of the The divisional group touch foot- fleld and the accompanying weather I ';.;· ;;;;;;=============~ ball gam~s will begin promptly at conditions did make play sloppy. Phi Gams Win Fourth Straight 12:45. Fumbles were frequent and passes· The Phi Gamma Delta touch Fall Track were attem~ted until the last quar- football nine kept its slate clean The events of the Fall Track ter, when M!dd!eburr made her last yesterday when it defeated the Psi Meet will start promptly at 4:00 desperate bid r.or VICtory. Upsilon team by 7 to 0. On a wind- p. m. on ·wednesday and Thursday. 'Three Freshmen! All freshmen are reminded that they must be examined by the col- lege physicians as soon as po.ssil>le. Office hours are from 4 to 6 in the afternoon. A swimming test must also be taken by the first year men. The pool attendant will take care of this. Quah:er's Speed and Sultry· Weather Factors in Garnet's Setback Hamme1·stt-om's Recovery And Sco1·ing- Plung-e B1·ing Vict01~y Lme-up . swept field- the Fijis managed to All competitors should be on Alex- UNION MIDDLEBURY nose out their opponents by one ander Field at that time, rain or ---------------, L.E. Busino Schrage! touchdown. Both squads rought shine. Get your Girl's Picture l L.T. KJ.uge Myers stubbornly the entire game, but Tennis On College Week-end t A stonn far ex:.ceeding Nature's L.G. Lynn Brophy neither could get an effective offen- Because of the Inclement weather, t The Union College football teun1 · oulburst struck Alexander Field C: Burns Stabile sive drive under way. The only the time for the completion of the Pictures Printed, Developed, tt went, saw plenty, aud was con· SatUI day aftem-oon and left a sadly RG. Kramer Jacques score came late in the first half, second raund in the Fall Tennis Delivered-24 How· Service i quered for the third straight tim~e. c0nfused and bewildered Middle- R.'1'. Krull G. Davis when Feldman, Fiji back, threw a Tournament has been moved to this season as a mediocre Swarth· ·bury team in its wake. For four R.E. King Tupka long pass into the end zone and Sunday, October 18. Do not delay Lea<ve Your Photoqraphs f more eleven won its opening game long pel'iods th.P Vermontet s wal- QB. Hammerstrom Mahoney Miller took the baU fro in under the playing your next opponent until in Gree11 Box in A lco'Ve : of the season Saturday. Hampered lowed In the mud before this com- L.H. Patrie McCarty safety man's nose. It was the fourth the last day. of Sillima11 Hall t by injuries and very sultry weathe1· bination and emerged from the R.H. Passe Creed in a row for the Fijis, ---o,--- j t conditions, the Garnet of Union game convinced that bucking elep- FB. Brockmeyer Cahn As a result of yesterday's victory Outing Club Notice l Community Photo Shop : did not show the necessa:ry :otumlna · hant:o was in many aspects much Statistics the Phi Gams maved into the finals • and spirit as did the Garnet of; easier .than attempting to pPnetL·ate of the winners bracket. They will Mr. J. s. Apperson of the Forest -------·-----·------~ 1 Swarthmore, and played logy bdll . Uniun'ti line. Uniuu Middlebury' have to meet the Alpha Phi Delta p · 1••••111111•1B1•111111•11 for the entir·e six:: tv miuute:o to lu:>e, Sam.my 1Ianunr\'rstmrn captain Yard:o G:±ineJ 183 59 nine l.il the bracket final. thl eserveb.(l.sstocJatlondwill speak on .•· For ii• t 0 • Passes attempted 3 6 e su jec \Lan Utilization 7 o · •snd quar·terbaclt: of the Garnet, was Passes completed 1 1 Rt>sults of Touch Football Through Preservation and Con- 111 111 Swarthmme, presenting a com- one of the out:>tHnding causes for Passes intercepted 2 Friday, October 9, Phi Gums sumption\ in Memorial Chapel, •. Sanitary and Eificienf .• 11 P aratively li\ht team m~de up uf bis team·\ 7-I.J <lefeat uf the Blue 25 ytl. defeated Kappa Nu by three yards Thursday night at 8:00 p, m. Mem- C \ 1 Kicks, average 38 yt!. _ • BARBER SERVI E • several freshmen, unleashed a l.UIL Whit.,. Tossing 20-yd. passes, First downs 7 1 in overtime; Kappa Sigma 7, Neu- bers of the Outing Club and all 111 · 111 tricky runner in Howie l!:belle, a· bueking .fhe line for fi!st downs, Blocked punts 2 trals O; Alpha Delta Phi 7, Delta other persons interested are in- Ill 111 first year man, who ran back one· and getting off creditable !ticks · Chi 0 (forfeit); Sigma Phi 7, North vited. a Demand to see this card when • of Ernie Brown's kicks in the sec- with t1 water-soaked pigskin, he Scol'e by Pel'iods ' College 0 (forfeit). : you enter a Barber Shop, ~ ond quarter for a forty-yard dash pl'Oved himself well worth the Union · · · · · · · · · · · · 0 7 0 0 -7 Monday, October 12. Phi Gamma M • and the only score uf the game. triple tlu·eat co-gnomen. Larry Middlebury · · · · · · 0 U 0 0--o; Delta 7, Psi Uupsilon O; Phi Sigma M • He tossed a .pass to Huhn for the Bmckmeyer tUI-nPll in a sterling Substitutions- Union: Rosen,· Delta 6, Alpha DP!ta Phi O; Sigma Interested in Schenectady : ; extra point and so became connect- gamt· at .full, wbile ever·y linesman Halavin, Nugent, Quinlan, Coulter.: Phi 7, Chi Psi 0; Delta Upsilon Interested j 11 UNION M 11 ed with every point of the contest. slwweu the kuit of Art I.awt·ence's Middlebury: Quackenbush, Fair-~ 9, Lambda Chi Alpha 20. • • The brunt of the Union ball car- drilling on bloc king, bucking and child, Myers, DeMerrit, Lilly. · Seheoule : ; rying was again shaded by Brown tadtling. ----0---· Wednesday, October 14: Beta MAURICE B. GRAUBART • • and Thomas, who ski! ted the ends Bathing Suits Needed Garnet Notice 'Theta Pi vs. Phi Sigma Delta, The Jay Street Jeweler : : and tackles to the tune of about A humorous a.spect wati provided i Alexander Field; Civil Engineering • • 135 yards. George Hasltell, starting when one enthu::;iastlc .supportez· in vs. Elecil'ical Engineering, Alexan- 166 JAY STREET M • his first varsity game, also luggPd the wt!ll-filled stands yelled \Get All those who have not yet ob- der Field; Social Studies Juniors ; : the pigskin a bit. The rushing of tlwm some bathing suits ~md a ton· tained their copy of the 1937 Gat·-: vs. Science, Council Field; Lan- ff'atch and Jewelry Repairing M Union was halted for the third -of Ivot·y soap.\ T'here was more net and who wish to uo so, should: guage and Liteartll!e w. Social a Specialty • Union Barber Shops for ; straight week in the viC'inity of the truth in this than Qne would imag- call at the Student Activities Office· Stuuies Seniors, Council Fit!ld. = Union Boys : goal line, for Saturday the attack ine because befo1'e the e11d of the in Washburn Hall on or before! Thursday, October 15: Phi Gam- • went as far as the thirteen-yard fitst quarter it was well nigh im- Wednesday, October 14, Books will rna Delta vs. Alpha Phi Delta, PARKER PENS •. LOOK YOUR BEST :. Hne before it was called to an end possible to tell one frotn the other. be withdrawn from circulation at .Alexander Field; Psi Upsilon vs. by the half whistle. Inn~fa~c~t~.~i~t~w~a~s~t~·~ena~a~r~k~e~d~th~at~N.r~id~-~t~l~la~t~t~irn~e~. ______________________ 2·~vv:l~n~n~e~l'~R~a~pp~a~N~u~-D=:e:lt~a~P~h~i~g~a~r.n~e,~~~~~~~~~~~~==~~==~~~~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~l~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~jil Failed at Crisis - The Dutchmen seem to have a very bad case of failing at the criti- cal point, for the record this year points to exactly no score as yet. There have been ample and numer- ous scoring possibilities, but no particular advantage has been made of them. Swarthmore seemed to be the logical opponent to work on for the first victory, for the line- up showed several freshmen and a very light team to stack up against, so the heavier Union line should have opened holes with fearle~s abandon. However, no one seems able to explain the inability of the line to do this and the backs had trouble in gettmg through all after- noon. The visitor this Saturday is Ver- mont, possessor of a tie gan1e against Union last year. It, as Union, has not crossed an oppon- ent's goal line this year, so the game should be a battle of giants. Nitchman will devote this week as he has no other in preparation for a game, and it is safe to say tha the lineup may be drastically changed by the end of the week. It will be the second home game of the year, and will open a home stand for practically three games, the only exception being the short jaunt over to Troy on October 24. .Score by periods: Swarthmore ...... 7 0 0 0-7 Union . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 o o--o ------0--- Garnet Loses To Vermont Harriers Long-legged Bill Hawkes lived up to all the kind things that had been said about him, but the speedy short-legged sophomores· scheduled to follow in his wake found the sloppy going too much to tran- scend, Vermont's veteran cross- country team winnlng the opener from the Garnet, 24-31, on Satur- day. Vermont came down heralded as a strong club, and they wasted no time en route in their ef:fort to prove it. Last year the Garnet run- ners found the Catamounts too strong when they met at the Ver- mont course, so that it was not a surprise to see practically the same team romp home first on Saturday. Of course on a dry day the small sophomores, who comprise most of the Ketz-coached squad, might have done better, but the fact remains that it was a wet day, and Vermont won in convincing style. Triple Tie for Second Hawkes, the running robot, moved around the sticky course In the fast time of twenty-seven min- utes and thirty-seven seconds. With little Dave Gregory of Williams out of the way it is difficult to picture the possibility of a defeat for long William this season. A minute later behind Hawkes came the rival cap- tain Lamson and two teammates in a dead heat for the second spot. Ed Wells, a stocky, black-haired fight- er, put in appearance as the second Union runner in his first test on any Union team. The damage had been done, however, and when Lehrer of Vermont came horne next the verdict was sealed, How- ard Sheffer and Ralph Denton, tvvo larger members of the sophomore nucleus, were seventh and eighth, with Denton and Hathaway staging · a throbbing battle down the home- stretch, Denton coming tht~ough by a paper thin margin. Joe Annese, a sensation in practice, was the . fifth Garnet representative to finish. Handicapped by the elements, Jojo ~ould du UQ better toon eleventfl • Read any statement about Chesterfield cigarettes We tell you what they are made of-mild, :ripe tobaccos. We tell you that we use .:ln Chesterfield pure cigarette paper. We tell you that Chesterfields are carefully manufactured. We suggest that you try Chesterfields and 1ind out how mild they are and what a pleasing taste and aroma they have. A great many cigarette smokers will .tell you that Chesterfields satisfy- give them what they want in a cigarette. LIGGETT & MYERs ToBAcco Co, 4;il1936, .ltGGBl\l' $c MY.I!Rs ToBAcco Co.

Four AVERAGES FOR BERG CUP FOR YEAR 1935-36 Fraternity 1. Pyramid Club 27 3.393 8 .8 2. Kappa Nu . . . . . . 31 3.144 !J .\:l 3. Alpha Phi Delta . . . . . Hi 2.646 4 .4 4. Phi Sigma Delta . . . . . 23 2.607 3 .3 5. Kappa Sigma . . . . . . . . 15 2.460 1 .1 6. Theta Nu Ep;;ilun ~u 2.45u 2 .~ 7. Delta Upsilon . . 33 2.389 4 .4 8. Delta Phi 29 2.375 3 .3 9. Theta Delta Chi 22 2.312 2 .~ 10. Psi Upsilon . . . . . . . . 35 2.299 3 .3 11. Lambda Chi Al·pha . . . . 11 2.2&8 2 .2 12. Phi Gamma Delta . . . . . 23 2.271 u .o 13. Beta Theta Pi 30 2.171 3 .3 14. AljYha Delta Phi _ . . . . 26 2.165 3 .3 15 Sigma Phi . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 2:078 1 .1 16. Delta Chi 14 2 006 1 . 1 17. Phi Delta Theta . . 36 1.986 o .0 18. Sigma Chi . . . . . . . . . . . 21 1.961 1 . .1 19. Chi Psi 32 1 960 o o 20. Kappa Alpha . . . . . . . . . 18 1 894 1 . .1 21. Phi Sigma Kappa . . . . 17 1.630 u .0 All men·., average .... Average for fraternities 1211 .. Average for neutrals .. AVERAGES FOR GARIS CUP FOR YEAR. 1935-36 39 North College South College . . . . . . . . 24 CALENDAR Today 7:30 p. m.-Classical Club Meet- ing, Dr. Kellogg's, Speaker, Dr. Harrison C. Coffin, \The Romans in Britain.\ 7:30 p. m.-Meeting, Union Col· lege Landon Club, Room 2, Washburn Hall. Wednesday 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly. Speaker, William K. Potts '37. Memorial Chapel. 1:00 p. m.-Glee Club Reheatsal !Tenors), Washburn Hall. 3:30 p. m.-Glee Club Rehearsal !Complete), Washburn Hall. 4:30 p. m.-Phi Beta Kappa Meeting, Bailey Hall, Room 107. Thursday 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly, Speaker, Dr. B. L. Short, Pres- ident, Institute of Kuman Sci- ence, New York City, Memo- rial Chapel. Second Installment Tuition Du., 1:00 p. m.-Glee Club Rehearsal <Basses), Washburn Hall. New York Department of Edu· cation Convocation, Albany (All day>. 8:00 p. m.-Mohawk Valley Hik· ing Club, Lecture on Conser- vation, by S. P. Apperson, Old Chapel. t Open to Students!. Friday 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly. Re· cital, Dr. E. A. Tidmartih, Memorial Chapel. 1:00 p. m.--Giee Club Rehearsal t Basses J, Wash burn Hall. 2:30 p. m.-Choir Reheai:sal, Memorial Chapel. Spiritual Laws Point \\'a~ For Man, Says Butzger Just as there is something in the nature of physical being that dif- ferentiates between right and wrong, so m man's peronal or spil'l· tual being there 1s somethmg that 1 points the right way, reasoned Dr. 1 A. G. Butzge1· of the Buffalo Wt-:-~t· , mmster Church Ill hl;; :;;ermuu ::;uu- ; day morning at the t:mun Collt-gP 1 Memorial {.'!lapeL 1 2.472 2.273 • 7 2 .7 .2 .J.l93 4.UH 2.686 2.637 2.560 2 655 2.789 2.675 2.512 2.5\ol!J 2.4811 2.271 2.471 2.465 2.178 2.106 1.986 2.061 1 960 1.994 1.630 :!.409 2.309 2505 3172 2.473 Drawmg a delilllte analugy !J., · I tween the physical laws which hav ... become the basis of man's empir 1 ical nature. and the ~piri t ual Ia w~ which have taught man thP road tu ' right thinking, Dr. ButzgPr said I that both tell u' \to live thb way. 1 not that way.\ I ! !:!Q!:!! SMOKE LEAVES A CLEAN TASTE 38 28 9 8 2 2 -1 -1 -4 ·4 -5 -5 -9 -9 -13 -16 -16 -17 -17 -20 -30 2 -5 \Since many props have been knoclted out from under religion,\ I declared Dr. Butzger, \it ha,.; I caused considPra blP wonder tn I people how rE>Iiglon rould mnnRg<> I to stand Many rlPnrl limb,. nnrl' withered leaves have bPPn eut off from the tree of religion, hut thP roots go down too deeply to eom pletely efface it.\ \When we losE' control of out- selves, there is ~omethmg that gives our souLs a terrific twtst meaning 'that is not the way.' AllLi when a man gives unselfishly uf himself by the very largeness of I his soul, something tells him 'this is the way.'\ A clean taste-a clear throat-what a joy when you wake up in the morning! You'll be thankful that last eve- ning you chose .2. light ~-Luc:kies. \This vast universe is covered with a veil that is continuously whispering to us 'this Is the way.· And what is so obviously true of the universe is also true of our per- sonal life. \But what is thil:l life? Sciencte calls it reality; the religious call it 1 God, Christianity, Jesu:; Christ. 1 Christ is the clue to reality. And i when you swerve from the right I path, He says, \This is the way. Walk here.' Jesus says, 'I am the way.'\ . THE CONCORDIEN8IlS, ~tJESDAY, OCT()BER 13, 1936 P . d Cl b w· . ta was thit~d, followed by Phi .Sig- yraml u IllS rna; Delta, Kappa Sigma, and Theta B 'T h p .. Nu Epsilon... erg rop y fJZe: New !VIarklng System In awm·ding the cups, Dean No rth College Wt'ns Dol·mt' _ Charles F. F. Garis explained that the new system of alphabeticrul tory Schola.I·ship Race With marking \vas used in grading the competitors. The averages are ex· Nine 4.0 Averages p1:essed as index numbers, with five · as the highest possible marking : !o-ws: October 12 through 17, F. w.: ]J\:rost Jr., through R. C. Moon, .and October 19 through 24, C. Morrison •through G. Whitbeck. Whether you plan to attend grad- uate school, already have a .Po~itlon .or are leoldng for work, 1t IS •e:X· ,pEcted that you wm call at the placement office in order that tho •records may be up to date. 0 Tuition Installment Due Co-mptroller's office w!B be open for- collection of tuition installtnents f·rom 9:00 to 11.:45 a. m. and' from 1::00 to 4:45 p. m. on Thursday, October !5. Payments· made after the above date are subject to the usual charge for •late payments. ---01--- Hale House Breakfast · and one and five tenths just pass- The Unio~ College P~ra~<l Club,, ing. non-fratermty orgamzatwn, re- The colle 11e as a whole, Dt•. Garis Tuition Installments are due and I ce1ved t~e _Berg Cup fo.r gtoup: announced, had an mdex number sl!ould be paid at the Compti'oller'll scholarshtp .m dally assembly Sa~- of 2.409, a. little better than a C affice Thursday, October 15, No, urday mornmg m the first compet1- average. With 2.505 as their inc:lex: !>ills are issued and it is requested tlon for t~e annual award und.,I Ci nurnber, tile independents were tl!at all students having paymen.ts new gradmg system. , higher in scholarship than frater-, due make them promptly. If there :Beginning Wednesday, October 14, Breakfast at Hale House will be served cafeteria style, from 7:30 until 10 each morning. Lunch and dinner will be served as usual. J9URNALISM CLASS At the same time the first award nity men, \vhose index number was· is any question regarding the There wi'll be a cl~ss in j-our-nal- of the Garis Cup, given to the dor- :2.309. amount due, please inquire at the Ism in Silliman Ha·ll at 4 P• m. mitory having the highest average, - ~- o~· -- :comptr·oller's office at once. The · .tc;,day. was made to the North College J>lacement Office Asks dormitory. ' Kappa Nu, winner of the Berg All Seniors to Repm·t! Cup for the past two years, was 1! close behind the Pyramid Club. All ;;enic.u·,; are asked to report' i Had the fraternity won this year,' to the Placement Office, Room 6, ' the cup would have become its .per-: Administration Building, before< manent possession. Alpha Phi Del- ()ctober 21. The schedule is as fol- 1 : GAZETlE PRESS PRIN11NC :· ' ' UN'ION COLLEGE BOOK STORE BUILD UP YOUR :LIBRARY:! Leisure Time Readings-. Popular Prices NEW S!l-ECIAL TY Autopoint Pencils in College Colors, 25c Regular Hours: 8:4-5 to 12 1:15 to 5 • -It's a Liqht Smoke! To feel good after smoking- It's not just the pleasure a fellow gets out of smoking Lucky Str\ke~ . , . it's feeling good after smoking I Fresh as a da.isy. A clean taste in your mouth. And when you start singing in your bath-your vdce clear as a bell! That's the great thing about a light smoke. Lucky Strikes-being made from the finest center- leaf tobaccos-taste g~od. And because they're a light smoke, you feel good smoking them. And after smoking them, toot * * NEWS FLASH! * * \S k II b • I weepste~ es rmg p easure to war veterans From a v-ete:rans'.home. in Legion, Texas, a number of entnes alhn the same hand- writing come in each week. Of course we checked up to make sure that the entries conformed to the rules, and one of the men explained: \Most of the boys can't gee around-but I do\and so I fill out their cards for them.\ We're glad to say that the boys have been prettr good pickers, too. Have-!o~e entered yet? Have you won your dcbcJous Lucky Strikes? Tune in \Yolll.' Hit Parade\- Wednesday and Saturday- evenings. Listen,. judge, and compar-e the tunes- then try Your Lucky Strike \Sweepstakes.\ And if you're not already smoking Luckies, buy a pack tcday and try them, too. Maybe you've.l>eenmissing something. You'll apprecla::te the advantages of Luck.ies-a Light Smcke ofricb,ripe-bodied tobacco. - \IT'S TOASTED\ ~ ',t I Eleven Out T0 Bea1 Vermcm Vol. LX., No. Many l?or H~ LeRoy J. ' Grad1 At The Union Comm.enceme tion of Colle~ mately 17 0 al expected at t indefinite nm und social evE As the outstar three-day celeb. football team ' mont Universit~ afternoon at 2:3 I der Field in th I I coming engagen team played wi1 I .· game to Middle! 1 seen it in real ~ 1 Gradnate ' 1. .. Today at 4 o' committee of t: ell will meet in I' Building, and 1 Hale House thE ! and guests will ! officially openin1 IDnd. Professc French will le~ present politica dinner meeting LeRoy J. We Publishing C'om the callege, w speaker tom·Orr• daily assembly : his address the ing of the Gr2 take place in tl the Gymnasium eon w.hic.h is Silliman Hall jt ing of the vat will be next on President Fox t To Attend The Graduate hoS't at the lun vited all alumn tend. From alumni and gu' football game c Two other tean on the home cross-country te Middlebury Col freshman runr meets Nott Ter: the opening me Immediately game, Dr. and n the guests; an1 home on the c The program wlil be conclud Edgar Park, pr College, will pr 1·ial Chapel Ser~ A.. Tidmarsh p afternoon orga1 Council' Freshl Miscreants\ Placards Theil \Vednrsda~·. ( fact that the required to wE Christmas vacs customary seve cipline Commit at the Student double its ordi first new meast all violators of to wear placarc showing their • enough ·violatoi the time of the planned to ·hd' men clad on!~ parade on the carrying broo. keep each oth1 Other .busine council include Junior election left by Hermar un8Jble to retu it will be im Sophomore Soi giving vacatior days, it was there will be r. this fall. T.he Hanna Hall ! after basketbs cussed and it suit the necess

for- be 7:30 .and m. J Eleven Out To Beat Vern1'ont '---\'=-'--'-==~=~==~~-- -- .. •• t Phi Bete Selects Eight Seniors Vol. LX., No. 8 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, OC'FOBER 16, 1936 PRICE FIVE CENTS ~==---~~~~~--================~~===================T=-=--=--=---=--~-~-=-~==-~====~====~~~~~~----===-~~=-~~-~--~== Many Alumni on Campus '· F'or Homecoming Festivities. New Senior Class Read i I ! \ LeRoy J. W C;\ed '01 to Speak in DaHy Assembly; Graduate Council< Will Entertain Guests At Luncheon :Be±:()re Football Game The Union College family, which meets formally only at C01nmencement time, will jtdn in th.e annual informal celebra- tion of College Week-End t()dar through Sunday. Ap];)roxi- mately 170 alumni from the eastern part of the country are expected at the buffet luncheon tomorrow afternoon, and an indefinite number wHl .p1·obably attend the athletic C()ntests und social events taking place during the week-end. As the outstanding feature of .the€> three-day celebration, the varsity football team will meet the Ver- mont University eleven tomorrow a·fternoon at 2:30 o'clock on Alexan- der Field in the important horne- coming engagement. Not since the team played with and lost its ·Nrst game to Middlebury has the college seen it in real action. Graduate Council Meets Today at 4 o'clock the executive committee of the Graduate Coun- cil will meet in the Administration Building, and: at 6:30 o'clock in· Hale House the returning a! umnl and guests will meet for the dinner officially opening the College Week- IDnd. ProfessC>r Patterson E. French will lead a discussion on present political trends after the dinner meeting Le·Roy J. Weed '01, of the Ginn Publishing Company and trustee of the college, will be the alumni speaker tom·orrow morning in. the daily assembly program. Following his address the regular fall meet- ing of the Graduate C'ouncil will take place in the Trophy Room of the Gymnasium. The buffet lunch- eon w.hich is held each year in Silliman Hall just before the play· ing of the varsity football garne will be next on the program, with President Fox the main speaker. To Attend Vermont Game The Graduate Council will act as hoat at the luncheon, and has in- vited all alumni and friends to at- tend. From Silliman Hall the alumni and gues.ts will go to the football game on Alexander Field. Two other teams will be in action on the home fields, the varsity cross-country team which races tlle Middlebury College squad, and the freshman running squad, whi-ch meets Nott Terrace High School in the opening meet of the seaso.n. Immediately after the football game, Dr. and Mrs. Fox will receive the guests and alumni at their home on the campus for tea, The program for the week-end wlil be concluded Sunday when J. Edgar Park. president of Wheaton College, will preach in the Memo- rial Chapel Services. and Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh presents his Sunday afternoon organ recital. ---o--- COUllCil Tightens Freshman Rules ldol Remains Mute In Class Paint W' ar . . . and still the ldol suffers in silen·ce. The wrath of the two underclasses has been pit- ted against this staid old piece of sculpture since its a.p.pear- ance on the campus many years ago. Class fights have •been staged around its base, last year the iconoclasts tipped the 'image from its pedestal, and this year it has been drenched with two to three vari-cDlored coats. of paint weekly. When college opened the Idol was a conservative white, but in the next two days it turned to a green monster and the following morning appeared with a red cloak. The classes forgot which was the freshman ·color and which was the sophs -so a compromise was reached -with tJhe second-year men giving the ancient figure a yel- low glow. The freshmen fol- lowed with a grayish purple, and only this morning the 12th coat was applied. A mute re- membrance of the revival of class interest, the Idol stands in awe. Short Astonishes Students In Chapel With Memol'y Thursday, Oct. 15.-Dr. E. L, Short, President of the American Institute of Human Relations, sur- prised students of Union College this morning in chapel service by his remarkable feat of memory. Dr. Short instructed Dr. Peter I. Wold, head of the college Physics Department, to call out numbers ranging from one to fifteen. The students in turn were instructed to label each number with a name such as post, for number one, marker for number fifteen and so on When fifteen was reached, Dr. Short after a few minutes deliber- ation reeled off the numbers and their corresponding names without the slightest difficulty. He said that man can accomplish almost anything if he has the will to do so. \Men use less than five per cent of their brains,\ be re- marked. ROBERT D. EVEBEST Everest Elected Senior President Seniors Also Choose Hirst, Doney, Converse, Connelly, As Officers Robert D. Everest, Delta Upsilon, President ·of the Student Council, was elected president of the senior class at the elections this morning as members of the independent fac- tion made a clean sweep of all other offices. H. Sherman Hirst was voted vice-president. The other offi- cers elected were: secretary, Rich- ard T. Connelly; treasurer-, Frank- lin V. Converse; historian, William F. Doney. Active participation in student activities has marked the college career of the new class president, Robert Everest. .As president of the Union College Christian Asso- ciation, he originated and directed the new freshman camp established this year. He also has been the leading sponsor of the proposed fraternity buying cooperative. Ever- est is also the manager of lacrosse He is steward of the Delta Upsilon Fraternity. His home is in Glovers- ville. Everest left today to assume the chairmanship of the Syracuse convention of College Christian Assocaitions. Hirst Track Ca.ptain H. Shirman Hirst, the vice-presi- dent of the class of 1937, is captain of the track team. In his junior year he served as secretary of Spiked Shoe. He was on the Stu- dent Council during his sophomore and junior years, and was director of athletics at the freshman camp. Hirst is an independent and a resi- dent of Gloversville. Richard T. Connelly led all other candidates for the secretaryship of the class. His home is in Utica. The treasurer of the 1937 class, Franklin F. Converse, served last year as chairman of the Junior Prom Committee. He is an inde- pendent. William F'. Doney, who was elected historian, comes from Glens Falls and is a member of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity. _ _:_ __ _ Miscreants Will Have t() Wear Placards Announcing Their Offense Gavel Club Calls Political Truce Wednt>sda~·. Oet. 14 ·-Due to the In MI.dst of Hecti•c 1936 Cam· ·pal· e:n fact that the freshmen are •being '-' l'equired to wear caps only until <$>--------------- Christmas vacati·on instead of the An unoffict'al truce in the m1'dst f th t t I t b th . or e pas wo wee •s o e e customary seven months, the DIR- ' cipline Committee del'ided to.night · of a hectic national campaign be- special' g.uests of the Gavel Club at the Student Council meeting- to tween the three major political at the \truce\ meeting. All other double its ordinary activities. The parties has been called by the .students on the campus, members first new measure will be to require Union College Gavel Club. Next of the administrative staff, the all violators of the freshman mles Tuesday night in the Old Chapel faculty, and the general pUblic are to wear placards in front and back ·leading representatives from the likewise welcome to attend. showing their offense. If there are Democratic, Republican, and .So- It is also hoped that :Barry Laid- enough ·violators between now and cialist parties will be the principal ler, Socialist gubernatorial candi- the time of the Williams game, it is. figures ih a public discussion of the date for the state of New York, will planned to hdve the guilty fresh- factors which make a person a be a)>ie to be present at the meet- men clad only in their pajamas Democrat, Republican, or Socialist. ing which Will represent a variety parade on the field during halves Dr. Charles N. Waldron, secre- of social as well as political inter- carrying brooms or paddles to tary of the college and a foremost ests. keep each other warm. Democrat in city politics; Mrs. Will , T H · 'd nt of the The meeting w!ll be opened first Other .business taken up by the 1s . · anson, pres1 e N Y k St t lit . f 'nde by the presentation of three Councl .l t'ncluded the setting of a ew or a e coa Ion o I - d t D t d Re Ubi . speeches which will be limited to Ju ... 101 - • election to fill the vacancy pen en emocra s an p I- •• kl f th 1~ t'on of approximately 15 minutes. After all left ·by Herman Greulick, who was cans wor ng or e ree .,c 1 · L d d D L · T k s have spolten the discussion will be unn·ble to return this year. Since an on; an r. ew1 on s, o- \' · 1· t d'd t f sman turned to the assembly, with the it will be impossi!ble to h.ave· a c1a 1s can 1 a e or congres In th . d' t · t · 1 t D 1 • speakers answering questions or Sophomore Soiree and a Thanks- 1s 1s nc runnmg aga ns · giving vacation of more than t.wo Earl E. Cummins, at'e the three asking them. days, it was again decided that main speakers for the first ·public Providers of some of the most there will be no Sophomore Soiree meeting being sponsored by the interesting political and social de- this fall. T.he .possibility of using Gavel Club this year. bates among the college orgahiza- Hanna Hall for holding dances As an added attraction the club tlcms, the li1embers of the Gavel after basketball games was dis- has invited the leaders of the Lan· Club are preparing attractive pub- cussed and it was· decided to con- don and Roosevelt clubs which have lie meetings for alternate Tuesd!).y suit the necessary authorities. been actively fighting eaeh other nights thl'Oughout the year. Socialist Can.didate Phi Beta Kappa Announces For N. Yo Governor • • • Speaks Here Today Election of E1~ht Seniors Harry Laidler Will Address AU A. S. U ., Stud~nts at 4 In Silliman Hall Residents of Troy, Albany, or Schenectady; Chosen Seniors Include Three Kappa Nu Members and Three Independents Economist and Lecturer Nominee Al}pears Informally To Discus~ Principles In Present Society New Yo!lt State's candidate for governor on the Socialist ticket, Dr. Harry W. Laidlei', outstanding American ·economist and author, will be the guest speaker of the Union chapter of the American Student Un·ion today in the first public mPeting of the 01 ganization at 4 o'clock in Silliman HalL Eight seniors, iHcluding three members of Kappa Nu and three indepenclents, were elected t<J membership in Phi Beta Kappa at the meeting of the society yesterday afternoon, Professor 1\Iorton C. Stewart announced today. The new members, all of whom are from Schenectady, Albany, or Troy, are: Donald H. Baxte1·, Fred Feldman, Theodore Fox, Jerome L. Cohen, Marvin Katz, James W. 1\IeKenzie Jr., Charles H. Reeves, and Casimir Ruszkowski. ---------------·<$> liiembership in Phi Beta Kappa As one of the founders with Jack London and Upton Sinclair of the Intercollegiate Socialist Society, now the League for Industrial Democracy, he will appear at the informal meeting today less as a candidate for a high political office than as an educator and advisor. Fraternity Dances Planned Tomorrow Five House Socials to Climax Week-end Alumni Program Celebrating Homecoming The meeting will be o.pen to stu- In celebration of the homecoming dents of the college and the general of the varsity football team and public. the general holiday for College Dr. Laidler is the author of nu- merous texts on labor, socialism· Week-End five fraternities will and concentration of control ·in hold dances tomorrow night at American industry. He is now their respective chapter houses. cpairman of the Socialist party of Kappa Nu, Phi Delta Theta, and New York State. He was for three years chairman of the economics Phi Gamma Delta will have infor- committee of the National Advisory mal dances with orchestras and Council on Radio in Education, Theta Nu Epsilon and Delta Phi and in 1932-33 served as president will have victrola dances. of the Nati.onal Bureau of Eco- nomic Research of which he is now Kappa Nu Guests a director. In 1921, with Norman Thomas, The guests of the Kappa Nu he becam-e executive director for House will be: Paul a Goodman, the League of Industrial Democ- Leah Schwebel, Shirley Dunn, Syl- racy, which position he now holds. via Beckensteln, all of Troy; Mil- He has spoken in most of the col- dred Streifert, Sarah Kahn, Ruth leges in the United States and dur- Cooper, Gertrude Lerner, Francis ing many tri'jls to Europe has come Manness, all of Albany; Betty into close contact with leaders of Schiff, Janet Cassler, Marjorie labor, cooperatives, and Socialist Manness, Harriette Scheinzeit, all movements. · of Schenectady; Ruth Frost, Hud- ---0--- Mrs. Ellery's Rites Talie Place Today Deep Sol'!'()W Is Expressed by College over Death of Beloved Friend A cloud of deep sorrow hung ovet· the Union College campus this afternoon as the body of Mrs. Adelaide Tt·ue Ellery, wife of Dr. Edward Ellery, chairman of the faculty and head of the chemistry department, was laid to rest in the college plot of Vale Cemetery to- day. Services, for the former friend of every Union student, who died suddenly Wednesday afternoon after a brid illness, took place at the Ellery home in South College at 2:30 o'clock with the Rev. Thomas S. Mutch, of Morristown, N. J .. a close friend of the Ellerys, officiating. Interment followed im- mediately after the rites. Mrs. Ellery, who vvas 60 years old, was born in Waterville, Maine, where she married Dr. Ellery five years after his appointment tC> the Union College faculty. The former Miss Adelaide F. True, she was graduated from Raddiffe College and becarnP head of the girls' divi- si.on of Saxtons' River Academy at B~llow Falls, Vt., before coming to Schenectady in 1909. As First Vice-President of the Executive Board for 26 years, Mrs. Ellery was closely associated with the Y. W. C. A., in charge of the religious education work. She was the teacher of a :bi-weekly adult Bible class and was active in the work of the Missionary Society of the First Presbyterian Church, of which Dr. :Mutch is a former pas- tor. In addition, Mrs. Ellery was connected with the Schenectady College Womans' Club, the Amer- Ican .Association of University Women, the Fortnightly Club, the Pan-Hellenic Society, and the Music Study Club, and was a past president o:f the Faclilty Women's Club. D:t\. Ellery, Mrs. Nellie King and Miss Carrie True, two sisters, of Aburndale, Mass.; Herbert Warren True, a nephew, of Albany; and Mr-s. Gordon Hall, a niece, of Providence, R. I., survive, son Falls; Marion Blumen, Ontario, Canada; Lillian Riskin, Newburgh; and Dorothy Saule, Kalamazoo, Mich. Chaperones will be :R-abbi and Mrs. Abraham Jacobson, and Mr. and Mrs. Einhorn. The Royal Vagabonds of Saratoga will furnish the dance music. With the orchestra of Lew Rider of Albany furnishing dance music, Phi Gamma Delta will have the following young women as guest.s: Barbara Clifton, Troy; Dorothy Harnishfeger, Scotia; Evelyn Con- nelly, Margaret Peck, Beatrice Bucltingham, Eileen Doyle, Jane Cease, Marjorie Buhrmaster, and Dorothy Myers, all of Schenectady; Dee Jesse, Clarissa Greene, Vir- ginia Soaper, of Albany; Beverly Brownell, Menaud~; Mary Decker, Ballston; Roberta Kelly, Duanes- burg; Nancy Trip, Elmira; Evelyn Moody, West Newton, Ma,;s.; Janet Meeds, Ridgewoml, N. J.; Mary Bishop, Brooklyn; Mary Erion, He1·kimer; and Marion O'Connor, Welle.;ville. Chaperones will be: Dean Garis Chaperones ThP chaperones at the DPlta Phi dance to be held tomorrow night are the Dean and Mrs. Charles F. Garis and Mr. and Mrs. WilHam Aydelotte. The ·guests will be: Jane Bush, Betty Flynn, Jane Lodge, Irene Garden.ven~. Mat\jorie Scutt, Vivian Livingston, Ruth Van Der Wart, and Alice Tullack, all from Sche- nectady; 'Claire Henze, Ellza,beth Wiles, Harriet Sprague, Ruth Mey- ers, Dot Soveren, and Bernice Ry- an, all from Albany; Esther Aller- ton, South ·orange, N. J.; Virginia P1·octor, Skidmore College; Frances Gascoyne, Orange, N. J.; Hazel Hallenbeck, Sloansville, N. Y.: Helen Dunning. Auburn, N. Y.; C'atherine Helvet. Amsterdam, N. Y.; Elsie Helmbold and Katherine Carroll, roy, N. Y.; Jeanne N. Den- nis and Dorothy Stellman, Burling- ton, Vermont. The guests of Theta Nu Epsilon are: the Misses Anne Rihel and Dorothy Smith of Mechanicville, June Dannenburg and Ruth Mc- Lane of Rexford, Mildred Stiles, Pearl Quimby, and Naomi Laven- der of Waterford, Nancy Hood of Albany, Irene Sibel of Marlavllle, Naomi C!iclmer of Eagle Hills, and Rita McGregor; Beth Walsh, Nancy Hood, Sara Shires, and Dorothy Ovevbaugh of Schenectady. represents the highest scholastic achievement which an undergrad- uate rnay obtain in college. Elec- tion to the society is based upon scholarship and char-acter, and is given as a rule to the men who stand highest in scholarship in their class. Baxter a Schenectadian Donald H. Baxter, a resident of Schenectady, has been a consistent Dean's List man and is taking a pre-medical course. He attended Nott Terrace High. Prominent in extra-curricular ac- tivities, and a member of Kappa Nu Fraternity, Fred Feldman has also been consistently on the Dean's List. He is a resident of Troy and a graduate of Troy High School. His activities include mem- bership in the Philomathean Soci- ety, Classical Club, Fencing Team, and Concordiensis. Theodore Fox of Albany is en- rolled in the mathematics and sci- ence division and his name has consistently appeared on the Dean's List. Cohen K. N. Head Jerome L. Cohen, has been ac- tive in fencing and debating. He is president of the Kappa Nu Fra- ternity and has always been on the Dean's List. Cohen is a resi- dent of Troy, where he attended Troy High School. Also a member of Kappa Nu and a resident of Troy, Marvin Katz i.s enrolled in the social stud- ies division. A Dean's List man, he is a member of the Philoma- thean Society. James W. McKenzie, Jr. is a member of Theta Delta Chi Fra- tern:ty . .A member of the varsity lac!'osse team, and the Model League of Nation's Council, he is a resident of Albany, and is en- rolled in the social studies division. Participation in many extra-cur- ricula activities, besides consistent- ly .h1gh dchola1·ship. has marked the career of Charles H. Reeves. He is a member of the Delta Upsi- lon Fraternity and a resident of Schenectady. Reeves is manager of varsity track and varsity de- bating. He is also a member of the Mountebanks and of the Model League of Nations Council Casimir W. Ruszkowski attended the Mount Pleasant High School and i.s a resident of Schenectady. Enrolled in the social studies divi- sion, he has been on the Dean's List throughout his coll~>ge career. 0 Parkes Cadman Preaches Here Tomorrow Morning D1. J. Edga1 Pa1k, pre;;iuent of Wheaton College, Norton, Mass., will be the speaker at the Chapel Service this Sunday. Wheaton College i;; one of the oldest colleges for women in the United State», having just celebrat- ed its centenary. It was founded by Mary Lyon, and is situated in part of th10> original grant of land to the Pilgrim fathers. Dr Park was born in Ireland and came to this country to do post- gra.<luate work at Princeton Uni- versity. He has also studied at the University of Edinburgh, the Royal University of Ireland in Dublin, Leipzig University and Oxford Uni- vei\sity. Under his administration the beautiful new church was built at West Newton, Mass., where he was minister for nearly twenty years. Dr. Park was for some time a member of the faculty of Boston University. He is the author of a large num- ber of books, all but one of which has achieved the distinction of go- ing out of print. He has also been a contt'ibutor to \School and So- ciety\ \The Atlantic Monthly\ and many other periodicals both here and abroad.

Two ~irn.siS \A Causa Persa Parole llssai\ FOUNDED 1877 ICJ36 Member 1937 ~sociated Cofte5iale Press Distributors of CbRe6iafe Di6esf Svltl !LllU tlXl'IUsive natlllllal au verlt~ing representatives !':.\TlU:SAL AD\'EHTISI!'\U SI::It\'lcE, luc. 420 .Mad loon A Vt:tl u~ New York Ctty ·Chteagu - Boston ~ s~n lf\r andsco · Lus .\ n~des Portland - l:leattlc The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fri- days throughout the college year, except dur· ing Christmas and Spring r-ecesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Pr·ess, 334 Stat\ St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Bost Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription pzice Five cents a copy; $3.00 a ;:year; delivered anywhere -~~-~~:._U~ite~ S_tate~: Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. ---=-----='-----'--- ------ ..... - Senior Board Norman R. Stewart ............ Editor-in-Chief Chi Psi Lodgc-·4·65~7 .S. Ralph Cohen ............... Managing Editor Stllima11 ll.t :I - 4-U lJJ Fento·n A. Gage ................... New:> Editor Delta Upsilon Hvu~e-l-7U~:! Milton D. Bedell .................. Spm ts Editor Delta Upstlon Huu~e-1·7~22 Donald Ford· .............. Circulation Manager Chi Psi Lotlge-4-65~7 James W. Righter •...•...... Business Manager Delta Up::=;tlou l:luuse--1~ 7~~~ Junior Board ASSOCIATE EDITORS Carl Trahman Willard Dean Edward Barry Robert Doig Hyman Enzer Henry Hartmann Robert Ferguson Melvin Muroff Sophomore B()ard Assistant Editors M. Depp, F. Hequembourg, P. Humphrey, W. Hitchcoclt, D. Taft, R. Walter, K Morgan, D. Miller, J. O'Brien, B. Rathbun, J. Smith. Issue Editors Robert H. Ferguson Hyman A. Enzer Assistants Jerry Smith Ralph l\lo1·gan Friday, 0<'tobet lti, 193ti IN MEMORIAM 'The strongest and most lasting link Union has with her community is that which the impressions and associations of he1· faculty families make on it. With the death of Mrs. Edward Ellery we lost a spirit which for a quarter of a century and more has hL•ld the respect of every Schenectadian, and that everyone, favored with her intimacy, loved. Her inexhausti!Jle activity in familial izing the gown with the town and the town with the gown paved the way for a more amicable relationship than each previously held with the other. Her loyalty and enthusiasm for the college was unbounded. In her home, too, she served as a hostess with grace and charm to all regardless of age or position. We can sympathize with Dr. Ellery for his loss, as can the residents of Schenectady for our loss. This, we thinl{, is the most ap- pro-priate tribute to pay, and it is to say that a real lady of quality has departed from this world. WELCOME ALUMNI In light of the fact that the wife of popu- lar Dean Ellery has died, any welcome we can extend you is shadowed by this dark penumbra. However, many of you will return to see faces which have aged since last you saw them, and you will imbibe in the memo- ries associated with them. You will lose yourself in the thl'ills of the football game on Saturday, which, in the way of a little advanced knowledge, will end with Union on the l011g end of the score. This weekend \everything goes.\ We hope you will forget that you were from the class of '00 or '22, and indulge with the undergraduates in their interests, their pleasures, and their enthusi- asm for the college. This is the first big All College gathering THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1936 of the year. Its purpose is to bring you back her.e so that you can appreciate the gTO\\th of the college. If you participate in the full· prog·ram that the Graduate Council has scheduled, you will see our progress. Become Union conscious with us again and see how· much pleasure you will get out of doing it. Week 1 s Best Editorial The following editorial refers to Hiram C. Todd, President of the Board of Trustees of Union College and Erskine C. Rogers, Union '01. GREA'l' PUBLIC SERV1CE The thanks, admiration, and good-wishes of a vast majority of his fellow-citizens will ac- company Special Prosecutor Hiram C. Todd, brilliant inves- tigator and avenger of the Dru!;:man murder scandal, as he cunie:; out hi:; announced intention to return at once to private law practice. WHY I CAME TO UNION COLLEGE Editor's Note-This artide ·was written as an assig-runent in tht> frP.shman journalism com•st> given by Tht> Concordiensis. It is het·p reproduced berutllile of its cogent and fmnk criticism from thE' point of viPw of a lil'>~t-;o~ew· Juttn. \Why I carne to Union College.\ about two hun- dred and fifty erasers are masticated by an equal number of perplex!'d freshmen, each wondering just how much saccharine can bP introduced into such u theme without having it absolutely r:eek of the adul-, ,pration. I am the two hundnd and fifty first the fPllow who didn't come to Union because \!It• had heard ,;o much about Union's \c-hola\t ic ratiug.\ 01 bt>cau~\' he had \h~aru mueh m ~r·abe uf the pro· ft'~>lUl·\ in Engli:;h\ pt<•:<utning it '' bdng wdtteu fut an English theme. This public appreciation, like- wi:;e, will go to Justice .:!Drskine C. Rogers, who .presided at the :<IJc•cial ttlt·m of court Vlhich handleu the various case:; gzowing out of the Drukman mut·der and to the members of the Thtraordinary Grand Jury, which was an indispensable third element in tht> success. To all of these and to the :;tuffs and assistant:; who as- >'~1:-<t.Pd in the great l'lean-up the ('!ly and Stat<> are indebted. The Drukman case was not a local problem. It had bem a majur defiance and obstrurtion of justice, and under Mr. Todd'\ lt>adPt·ship it was dis ,,p('tt•d uut and revealed in It>~ remote extensions .... Candidly, I came tu l'nion bt·L·au:;.e I li w in SehC' nectady, which malte:; it pos.sible to eliminate two of .he greate:;t expenses in a college budget: room and ouan.l Fran.kly, withuut the l'liminatiun ot' tht·~e twu ~xpen:;e;, college for me wuuld, in all {Jrobabllity, .:ontinue to be a roseate dream on the never-reached norizon.. I have alway:; viewed Uniun in a Il.IO::lt favorable .tght. Even if the demagogue dollar had not mapped .11y course towards her gatt>B, uld Union might well \ave heard my feeble luwclt for· admission. While it has been only a ver·y ;;hort time l:lince thh; .r·eshman listened to Dr. Ellery's welcoming speech Juring the orientation period, I have already formed several decided opinions about Union. The <'ollege has everything that the ideal <'ollege requires: It i:> not too conservative, yet one cannot but fpel and respect .he dignity and decorum that she has acquired dur- .ng her century and a half. I believe that Union 1pp1·uximates the size of the \ideal collPge\; c~rtainly not too small, but yet not so large so as to remove .he friendly atmo:;phere, and thus render it another ·'diploma mill.\ The faculty, with few exceptions, seems to have the two essentials: competency and affability in the vroper proportions, so that classes are enjoyable, yet .il\ made to count for something scholastically. The physical plant seems adequate for all purposes. i'het\ are signs of needed repairs, but one is a warP .uat repairs and additions are being .made. To me, r!a.e House, if not the most interesting, is the bright- -•st spot on the campus. Dr . .!:<'ox seern.s to have b\en made fur· the IJI'PHi· Jency of Union. It is my humble opinion that he iti the panacea that Union has needed, and that under nirn she will attain new heights. 1 ntentioned before that Union had cvcrythin~ that the ideal college requires; that is, almost evetything. fo thls mere freshman, it appears that most of th\ >pil·it at Union must be carried in bottles we cer- tainly have no school siJirtt. I'll grant that I am <'X· .remely idealistic and that I've been. expo:;£>d tu sev· eral books such as \Tom Brown's School Days\ and uther \classics\ of that ilk, and these may be the ,·easons, but somehow I am still fuolish enough to believe that there is such a thing as school spirit. fhe college lad of a few year~ ago wa,; g.-u.-rally condemned as a \rah·rah boy\ would that Wt' had some of that \rah-rah\ spirit at Union now. Iu chapel, the singing tsuch euphemism) sounds lil~e a third- grade class of about twenty infants. The cheering, singing and general spirit at our tlLst football game would have been a disgrace to a seminary debate. I can't explain it-we have a potential ideal cullege-- C'verything one could desire, and still we ean't instill enough spirit into the .school to malH! ttself felt. It you will pardon the expression, we act like a group of smug, conceited \spoiled brats\· willing to absorb some education, but when it comes to showing a .little pride in our alma mater \We can't be bothereu with such trivial things.\ In general, to this inexperienced observer, it seems that we have a school of which we might well be proud, and if we ever do cultivate some pride in it, and give a little outward demonstr:...tion uf thb !JliJt:, we will verily have the \Ideal College.\ L. V. PELLETIER, '40. And at Other Colleges .•. \V. A. Forster, Mini.;ter uf \Var in th\ Balfuut Cab tnet of G1·eat Britain, will lead a two-day conference on International Affaits at SKIDMORE COLLEGE. Mr. Forster will also speak at UNION COLLEGE. COLBY COLLEGE has a literary sleuth in the person of Prof. Carl J. Weber, whose hobby is ferret- ing out mysteries in the life and works of Thomas Hardy. * * A movement for the organization of all non-frater- nity men in the Cornell Independent Association at CORNELL UNIVERSITY has the endorsement of many fraternity men. * * NEW YORK UNIVERSITY is expanding this month with the acquisition of three new buildings, one at the NASSAU HOFSTRAU campus at Hemp· stead, L. I. * * Scientific teaching methods over a period of only five months have produced normal pupils out of a former group of slow learners at the Speyer School conducted by the Board of Education and Teachers College, COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY. \ * * Living graduates of PRINCETON UNIVERSITY, totaling 17,967, Jive in forty-eight states and 75 for- eign lands, the university directory reveals. New York leads the list of states With 5,089 living alumni, sixty-eight per cent of whom live in New York City. * Enrollments in colleges throughout the cotfntry have increased 6% over last year, a survey made b:V The New York Times of 100 colleges revealed. South- ern and western institutions both made gains of 8,2%, while enrollment in the east was up 3.4%. HOBART COLLEGE now numbers 334 students, MIDDLEBURY has 713, UNIVERSITY OF VER- MONT 1,290, each having the greatest enrollment in history. In view of these accomplish- nLents and uf the tremendou:; obstacles surmounted by Mr. Todd, Justice Rogers, the Grand Jurors, and their asso· elates may share with unmixed satisfaction in the memory of a notabl!) success, a great work well done. Unfortunately, at the last they were deprived of the com- plPte rounding out of their :;et vices. Their effort to go to the root of the trouble and ob- tain for Brooklyn a prosecutor of higher standards and worth- ier qualitlcations was brushed aside by Governor Lehman. And instead of thanks from the Governor both Mr. Todd and the Grand Jurors were re- warded with angry denuncia- tion N ... vertheless, their suc- <'Pss is unquestionable, and their contribution to a better l'ommunity cannot be forgotten. New York \-'odd-Telegram IN THE MAIL ro The Euitor: As the most sublime bit of effort- le~s asininity that has 'ever ap- peared on the editorial page of The ~oncm·dienHis, I wish to elect that pit'c\ itt your issue of October 9 <'lltitit'd \Politics in College.\ It is atterly unworthy of the standard uf thought that has hitherto char- .t('tel iz<'d the efforts uf that sheet. It char·ges th\ proponents of the several political persuasions ln the rollPge with: 1 \IntPre•ting if not remark- able insight.\ 2 -Not qualifying \to carry on an intelligent convHsatlon on political ·vent~\ becaul:le \only an expert can interpret wisely campaign speeches, press reports and other publicity.\ 3 Being \pseudo-Intellects\ mix- ing learning and understanding_ By way of defense I should like to point out that we do not pretend to \remarkable\ insight. We are ;iuetcd \illlere~tillg.\ As to not qualifying to argue Haltered that it should even be con- pro and con in this subject of na- tional politics, of taking sides I disagree. heartily. If we, the s~p­ posedly mtellectually superior one or two per cent of the citizenry of the country can not interpret wise- ly, whom do you, Mr. Editor nom- inate to pass judgment? Wh~t sort of person does one have to be in order to qualify to take Issue on political matters? \Providing we realize the limits of our knowledge\ you say. \Knowl- edge misdirected accounts for the muddle we find ourselves in today.\ All too well do we know the limits of our knowledge; all too well do we know that knowledge rn.ay be misdirected; but why, in the name of common sense should we stultify ourselves because we have a cer- tain intellectual minimum, because knowledge has been known to be misdirected? You charge us with being \pseudo-Intellectsh.\ You smugly and paternally whisper. \Learn how to understand before understanding.\ And yet in the same bveath, you, a student, pre- sume to understand and to pass judgment upon a subject which you should, by your own assertions be \learning to understand,\ not /'un- derstanding.\ You rest upon a fal- lacious assumption. Learning and understanding cannot be separated. Are you assuming that immediate1y upon graduation some great light of understanding is suddenly golhg to break upon us; that all at once we will cease learning and begin to understand? Be consistent, at least, my noble Editor. Lay aside your pen. Roll down the desk top, your work is over. How can you presume to \know\ how to edit The Concor- diensis? You must realize that you are still in the process of learning. Sincerely, Burns F, Barford '37 JUST IN JEST Good .evening, dear readers. Well, I've finally found out what's wrong with this he1:e column. (Quiet, youse guys.) I've had too, too, ma·ny dirty ct•acks in it I decided ail this wlth the help of Grandpa Stewart, Ichabod Cohen, and my dear, deu· fraternity btothers (Gad keep 'em sober). Give credit where credit is due-thaf's my motto.* 8000, this week we al'!'l going to have a pansy column. Don't get me wrong, ya mugs; Here's what I mean-whenever Bro; Winchell wants to congratulate a g.uy, he awards orchids, see% Well; I'm gum to congratulate everybody around the .tlump. Right? But in- stead or awarding orchids, I'm goin' gi·ve ,panstes. I'm goin' throw panst<>s aU over the place.-O.K.? Fine, then her·e goes. UNCLE WILJ,Y AWARDS PAN- Uod is biw Pilof~•siou, the BIES TO: P1:exy <Fox because he's Y.:H.CA his hol!b~·. The good sport, everythin.g a college president tht• uen Llt•alt·z·, tlw all· w und ntan, tht> t:hristhm per~ouaL tl·· Reticent I as a g!lrli<- hH•ath in a :low Sl'l'llt' 1(. 1 • hun h\mm~. ThP du'!st., disc·iple Athll'tit• as hell. t·~~s thr holit•r· than-thou attitudt' thull;gll 11e'tl likt' should be and then some . , . also ht> !mows how to dress t which fact makes him an individualist Hllong:;t rullege pt of<'>~i'lorsl ... l1o·~otn Gari:; becau:;e he's -hu- man . Mlke Enzer because he gets mm·e publicity out on Union than do n1ost press agents for to hear him when he <'a.tch.e~ hib larger colleges .... Milt Bedell, ling<>l' In th<' bathi·umu .dou•·· Fin<> the sporting D.U., who will waltz it ligw·e, 11t1ll Imit, lil•e a ue11 tea down the middle aisle immediately after .graduation lSaratoga papers cosy. please copy) . , .. Johnnie March Dresses well--must read Esquire. because he's ·tops as a teacher . , •. Conscious of the fact that h!:\'s well ditto the Larrabee and the Myers prest·ned-stl'Uts. Voice li.ke a cry Freddy Bt:onner because he is- In the wildemess. !Hout11 straight !censored)'*' - · · · Lilli~;~.n Apple- garth because she is the perfect but bulldoggy. Ears too fat· down secretary . . . . Ferd Helm because lil!:e mispllt<'ed comma.s. Still has· he said to Uncle Willy, \the best enough hair to shampoo. Too much thing in your column is the dirty forehead. E~· .. brows :::~till blacl~. cracks-keep 'em up\ · - · · Uncle . . Willy because his prediction about gn·mg his face the al•Jleanutce of the Chi Psi's and the Senior class a thunderstorm over a. graveyard .. nominations carne true**** . . . . The public SJJirit, the Rotary THERE NOW, IS EVERYBODY mo\ement, the bended knee. No HAPPY'! freind of the muses. Glol'ia. ill excel- YOUR UNCLE WILLY still thinks we have a chance to win soine sis Dt>o. Hallelujah Ame:n. Swing games if the student body shows it bo~&!! some spirit. O.R. W.W.M. B EHIND t~e scenes, in ma 11 y a capture by G-men, will he found the service provided by T-men- telephone men (and WCJmen, too) o:f the Bell Systeill.. Law enforcement officers make frequent use of both local and long distance teleph<>ne service. They depend on the Teletype-w-riter, for quick and ac- c.urate transmission o£ written messages. The tighten their nets -with the aid of yet another Be~ System development~ police car radio, And so the telepbone, with products and sewices grow. ing out of it, helps to make your life happier, :broader and more secure, Ver Varsi As F Nitchman For 8 Well, then game this Sat a team nan hails from UJ where, .and w reports, shoul' more game in reams o.f thE sc·ored no poi the fourth t: campaign for· fourth for tlu yet neither te< although It ni< thta it has opponents, n Williams and Tean After a v against the f1 and practice 'C Dutchmen she cri tica1 test, a and Schenect: score. Coach : vamped, and half dozen tim it is hard to ·appear in the Lewis, sophom along so rapi tainly start, \ most of us w surprised wh1 pears as the converted jus wing post, an• Sam Farr. Ta new set, and Chapin and L: who may at a by Gatchell, or Angle. Cap ton Adams, a guard position first choice f being next in The ·baoekfiel· on-e which ha lugging in the Captain Ernie back, Amazon and Bill Tl Dennett and I performance Dennett suffet Smith from a1 slight attack Smith, a COl Wally Hughes ments. Vermont, w good on papE team very 11 Thrice conque scored a point have :been rm scores. Howe1 .been definite!~ like Union, e prQmisin.g me and no capab available. Verm The two cc Lawton, have on the gridir <~ther mainst~ warmed the l do-ctor's COUSE these unfortu1 Cats have de \V'On last wee (Con tim An P. L __

ers. Well, t's wrong (Quiet, too, too, decided Grandpa and my (Gad where motto.* going to get what Winchell guy, he I'm body But in- I'm throw e.-O.K.? PAN- he's president ... also hich fact ividualist ••• he's hu· cause he Union for Bedell, waltz it a papers e March .... Myers he is- Apple- perfect because 'the best dirty .. Uncle about ior class thinks some shows THE CONOORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16,.1936 Three 1 V errnont, Middlebury V s. Varsity Teams; Frosh Active Varsity Takes Third Loss: Three Sophmores Start For the First Time Frosh Runners Meet N ott Terrace in First Contest As Frosh Score Nitchman Shifts Lineup Bill For Second Home Game • In Opener: 1\atz Looks For Union Victory If- Well, there's anothet· ft•utball In the near future there will he game this Saturday, this tiu11:: with, an explo<Sion on the Union campus a team named Vermont, which' 1 ivalling the commotion of a 21, hails from up in t:he north some- gun salute. That e.11plosion will be where, and which, acc.,nding to all the breaking of the Varsity Cross· reports, should sink Union JUht one Country into the spotlight of vic-· more game into the cellar with thP tory. reams of the counuy v.hu lmve. \Yes sir,\ exdal!ned Union's,: sc·oved no point;; or· •le~s. It will ·be ~beery traclt coach, Bill Ketz, ·the fourth tussle of the cunen.t through tlw blue haze of his ever campaign for tile Dutchmen, the prl•oent pipe, \the boy:o ale head fourth for the \iernwnters, and a: iug tuw~nu a fine sea~un and with yet neither team ha:; sc<.HeLI a !JUIHt,: a bit more experience should although it niay· be said of \e11uunt r·uund into a combination that will thta it has played som\' tougl: · make the college sit up and take opponents, namely, Darthnwuth. notice.\ Williams and Colby. Commenting upon the Middle-; bu1y match tomorrow, Bill was a ··to.;;...;,....,...,..._..,.. .... .._..._._.,....._~;;;;....J Team Revamped bit evasive as to the outcome. RIIYMO.VlJ 7. /....f.WIS .. fif.NO .After a weelt of set immage \Hawkes will take first,\ he said In against the freshmen, cha.Jit tallts, • reply to a query as to the long and practice of Vermont plays, the gaited captain's chances, \but be- Formt·dable Assi·gnm·ent F' aces Frosh Dutchmen should be ready for the- yond that I migbt as well predict critical test, at which all of Union the results of the Presidential· and Schenectady is looking for a race.\ Tomorrow in Gloversville Contest score. Coach Nels has vamped, re- Annese lJnlcnown vamped, and vamped his team a · half dozen times this last week, and If the Garnet runners start .func- · t . · \ 11 1· d \ d t k ' Step.ping into what will p1·obably it is hard to predict J'ust who will wnmg on a cy 1n ers an a e: an f th t th 1 · e the second toughest assignment ·appear in the opening lineup. Ray . Y o e nex ree paces, Un . ·11 t d 11 t the year, the Union freshman Lewis, sophomore end who has come wn WI s an an exce en Chance t t k th A · football team will engage the Glov· along so rapidly that he will cer• · o a e e race. nnese h o= 1 ·m d tl d ersville High School eleven at ta inly start, will play one end, and = prove grea Y an may d th t t M 'd le tom or row afternoon ·in most of us will .probably be a bit prove a angerous · l'ea o · 1 - dlebury 's cl1ance Ho t · the only away contest of the hectic surprised when Jim Mulcare ap- · s. wever, we : d ld th · athletic week-end. P ears as the other end. Jim was, groun s or co wea er may aga1n arise t th · th Coach Art Lawrence, who has an converted just this week to the- h' o row a cog m e ma-. ----------------------------- must be com- Sunday, Octo- wing post, and may be assisted by c mery before Saturday afternoon. Sa.m Farr. Tackles are an entirely The team went through light .exer- · new set, and will most likely be cise yesterday afternoon, jogging Chapin and Ladue, two huill{y boys around the track several times who may at any time be replanted and practicing starts but no heavy Track Results by Gatchell, Riggs, Ladd, Baker, workouts were ordered by Coach or Angle. Captain Potts and Clay- Ketz. 100-yd. dash-Marra, Alpha Phi ton Adams, a \homer w!ll fill in With the favor .of the gods of Delta; T. Burke, Delta Phi; D. guard positions, and Barton will be 'weather, Union's cross country Miller, Psi Ui])silon; B. Olmstead, first choice for center, Campbell team should give the Middlebury . Delta Upsilon; F . .Arnstein, Kappa being ne:xt in line. runners a good fight and show the The ·ba-ckfield will probably be the students that a single defeat does 220-yd. dash-Marra, AI·pha Phi on€ which has done most of tht> not mean a poor season. Delta; Pintavale, Alpha Phi Delta; lugging in the last three downfalls. Below are the probable runners Thatcher, Psi Upsilon; Olmstead, Captain Ernie Brown will be full- Saturday: Delta Upsilon; Pomatti, South Col- back, Amazon and Haskell halves, lege. and Bill Thomas, quarterbacl{. 1 Capt. Hawkes 6 F. Myer 60-yd. high hurdles-Colby, Chi Dennett and Smith will watch the· 2 Wells 7 Thompson Psi; Jenkins, Psi Upsilon; Schultz, performance from the sidelines, 3 Sheffer 8 Hewitt Phi Sigma Delta; Nott, Kappa Al- Dennett suffering fr·om a bad leg, 4 Annese 9 Benton, R. pha; Duchscherer, Psi Upsilon. Smith from an injured knee and a 5 Denton 10 H. Myer 131road Jum.p-D. Miller, Psi Up- ~~~~;, ~ta~~nv~:tec;oncs~~i~~. ~~~ ~~- ll silon; Pintavale, Alpha Phi Delta; INTRAMU ALS Paton, Delta Phi; F. Brown, Kappa Wally Hughes will be first replace- . R Alpha; Murphy, Chi Psi. ments. Vermont, which doesn't look so ''===============!.~ Discus-Daly, Lambda Chi Al- good on paper, nevertheless is a ~ pha; Lawrence, Kappa Alpha; team very much to be feared. Touch Results Thornton, Phi Delta Theta. Thrice conquered, she has not yet Javelin-Britton, Delta Upsilon; scored a point while her opponents Thursday, October 15, Psi Upsi- Winne, Phi Sigma Kappa; Liffiton, have :been runnnig up fairly large Ion 9, Delta Phi 6; Lambda Chi Phi Delta Theta; Enzer, South Col- scores. However, Coach Sabo has Alpha 25 • Sigma Phi O; Alpha Phi lege; Altemus, Delta Upsilon • . been definitely at a handicap, for, Delta 6, Phi Gamma Delta 0, (in Pole Vault-George Miller, Phi like Union, several of the more oveltime). Gamma Delta; :Parry, Lambda promisin.g men have ·been laid up TQUCb Schedule Chi Alpha; Salad, Phi Sigma Del- and no capable replacements were ta; Vandecar, Phi Delta Theta; available. Friday, October 16. Phi Gamma Duscherer, Psi Upsilon. Delta vs. Psi Upsilon; Beta Theta 120-yd. low hurdles-Salad, Phi Vermont Injuries Pi vs. Lambda Chi Alpha. Sigma Delta; Morris, Kappa Al- Monday, October 19, Winner of pha; T. Burke, Delta Phi; Pomatti, Phi Gamma Delta-Psi Upsilon Sotlth College; Jones, Psi Upsilon. game vs. winner of Beta Theta Pi-Lambda 'Chi Alpha game. ~----------------------------- ~x.traordina1·ily competent group to work with, has ·been working his men with a little less severity than he did before the start of the sea- son, but the easier drills have been effected ·because of the better con· dition of th men. Constant drills and a short but sweet S()rimmage with the varsity this week have put the frosh in fine fettle for the second game of the season. The only disappointing thing about .tomorrow's game seems to be the fact that the returning alumni and many guests won't have the chance to see the yearlings in action. Thundei·bolts, Giants ,.,.. The s<tarting lineup will proibrubly remain the same against Glovers- Ci)UALITY SHOE REPAIRING Reasonably Priced Phone <1-7711 THE WALLACE COMPANY BASEMENT CONNELLY BROTHERS DAIRY, Inc. 1858 HAMBURG STREET PHONE 2·091 0 The two co-captains, Ross and Lawton, have not put in much lime on the gridiron, and Lipsky, an- <lther mainstay of last year, has warmed the bench while awaiting do.ctor's consent to play. Despite these unfortunate happenings, the Cats have done very well. Colby won last week by 13 points, and Tuesday, October 20. Final game on Alexander Field at 12:45. Alpha Phi Delta vs. winner . of loser's WALDORF TUXEDO CO. bracket. Tennis (Continued on Page 4) The second round of the Fall LOUIS WASSERMAN QUALITY MEAT MARKET 354 Broadway ~-~-------~-------------~---~------·-·--·---· Special I 11 1+ Can't Happen Here 11 -98c ' . : An Autobiography of Lincoln Steffens-$1.50 L __ :~~:=-~:_ ___ j HEADQUARTERS FOR Good Shoes and Socks Patton & Hall. Inc. Serving Union for 43 Years X-Ray Fittings 245 State St. TO HIRE For College Weekend NEW TUXEDOS-DRESS SUITS Dress Shirt • Collars - Ties, ete. See John Gilmore, D. U. House Waldorf Tuxedo Company 452 Broadway, Albany Phone 4·5011 If You Want Of Good Fellowship Meet After the Game at Ceorge Herath's PHONE 2·4160 OPPOSITE THE VAN CURLER ville as that which played and won against Middlebury last Saturday. The only change may be the use of young M:arvin Rosen in the back- field in place of Patrie, who is in- eligible.for away games. Sam Ham- merstrom, the 'blond giant in the quartel,back position, and Larry Brockmeyer, human thunderbolt at ful!•back, are evidently the out- standing backs for the frosh. Deck- ro or Passe will start with Rosen in the other halfback post. T:he lineup from end to end will be Bob King, Kramer, Lynn, Burns, Krull and Bill Busino For reserves there are Coulter, Roberts, Ross, Halaviu, NeVius, Quinlan, Carey, and Nugent. With a none too optimistic out- look, Coach Wilford Ketz will send his frosh cross-country team into the hills and dales tomorrow against Coach Bill Eddy's Nott Terrace runners. The Nott Terrace team will. not be at its full strength becau.se its major meet tomorrow is at the Interscholastics at Man- hattan. Nevertheless, Ketz is stHI pessimistic because the Garnet yearlings are not in the best of shape; they all need moee practice. Santora is the only hope of the Union squad He haJS scampered over tl1e three mile course in 15:53. The others are ranlted in the fol- lowing positions: Johnson, Mele- wicz, Hoffman, Fisher, Murray, Wells and Ross. Fisher started a quarter of a mile late and finished fairly well as the standings show; he hats definitely shown signs of improvement. SEATS $1.10 and $1.65 NION r- - ..... -----------; t Get your Girl's Picture 1 • ! 011 College Week-end : t Pictures Printed, Developed, ! 1 Delivered-24 Holll' Service f t Leave Your Photographs t : in Green Box in Alco'lle l l of Silliman Hall t ..:~::~~-~~~~:_~~-J ENJOY ALL COLLEGE WEEK-END FILL-UP AT W. H. RICE ESSO-Servicenter CORNER AND JAY UNION STREETS UNION COLLEGE BOOK STORE Build Up Your Library! Leisure Time Readings-Popular Prices Autopoint Pencils in College Colors-25c Come and See Our New Line of PERSONALLY EMBOSSED STATIONERY Regular Hours: 8:45 to 12- 1:15 to 5 , •............................................... ~ • • • • • • Ill • • • • • • • • • • 5 ~O:OK AR·OUND YOU 5 • • • • • • • • • • : In the Stands : • • • • : on the Cam4lus : . ~ . • • : in the \Houses\ : • • • • • • • • • • • • 5 The Correctly Attired Students 5 • • 5 Select Their Clothing at 5 • • • • • • • • • • • • ! McManus & Riley 5 • • : \'Correct attire for Genflemen and Beys\ : • • : 49~51 State St. Albany, N.Y. • . : ~--------~~--------------~------------~----~e;=-=-=-=--==--==-------------~=-=--=-=-==-=--==-~·~···············································1

i I i Four Union Team Needs Students' Support Co-Captain Potts Says foach And Players Alone Can Not Win Games Wednesday, Oct. 1<1.-The need of strong student support for the football team was stressed by Wil- liam K. Potts ':37, co-captain of the team, in Daily Assembly this morning. \The team -itself is not a body of eleven separate personalities, but is instead a spirit, something intan- gible,\ said Co-captain Potts. \Here at Union the team is made up of two parts, the squad and coaches, each loyal to the other and believ- ing in one another. The ideal situ- ation, however, finds a third part, the student body which has faith in the other· two parts, and maltes it- self their Joyal baclters regardless of what happens. It is of interest to note that within the past two years this college has developed this threefold spirit in regard to basketball, and the gam!' has solid, almost fanatical support from the students. This same spirit will de- velop toward football under the leadership of our new coaching Describing the growth of profes- sionalism in American sport, he said that some prophesied the re- t urn of football in colleges to a strictly amateur standing, but that more logically increased profession- alism might be expected The American attitude towards sport, according to Potts, combines the active participation in sport of the English and the· spectator tend- ency of the French. At Union in its \Athletics for All\ intra-mural pro- gram, the typical American desire In conclusion, Captain Potts said, to win above all is very noticeable. \The spirit of this team fighting to the last every time is sure to bring the student body behind it, and put the team in the winning column .. ----o--- Pictures for 1937 Garnet \Viii Be Taken Next \Veek According to an announcement by Donald Ford, Edttor-in-Chief of The 1937 Garnet, all picture::; for that pubhcatlon will be taken dur- ing the next wee!{ of October. Prompt coopez·ation is requested by ali those concHneu with the ptc- t ures. All junior pictures will be photo- graphed in the Student ActiVIties Office and all group picture::; m Dr. Johnson's room in Washburn Hall. Athletic pictures will be photographed in front of the gym and class pictures in fl·ont of the Chapel. The following pictures will also be taken: :\lunda.}, Ot•t. llitll.-A. ~1. ]II .]11, F're~hntanl'la~:-o. P.l\1 1~ o~;,, t~ht Ph!, 1 'IJO. Ht:'tH Tht.•ta P1; 1 t:,, {Jt'lta l\p~~­ lou; '; IJIJ. P~l l'p:-qlon ';' ·].-, .\!ph·l Delta !'hi: 7 Ju, ScJgma Ph1. ~ 4:,, K<-iJI- 1'\ .\lpl:.t ' ' ' l..!.d.J. TUI''lht_l, 0<·(. 20.-A :\I ]11 1\. JLJJ• io1· Cia-.:4 P .\I · 1:? .;.·.. I ,hi 'i.t.rnt.nt !J!?lta: I :u•t. Ph1 Dt:dta. Thl'ta. I 1~. llt-lta Pia, 7 tnt, ThHa I)t·lt:t. t'ht. ~ t:,, ThPI:l ~~~ EJ\•t!llll. ; ;; .. , I '111 ~J,t:Uitd K:tpJ•.i. 7 ~,-,_ f'hl ~1gn1a {lt·!t:t. :. 1111. \'ar~ity 1 'rn~~-,·ountn \\t•Uf11 11 ••du.}. t)rt. 21.-A .:\1 ]11 ]u, Sefltur t'l.l~!-.- }\_ .:\1 . 1:: t:~. La.rnl.uia ('hi .\IJ•lu 1 1'\· K~t·J•lt.t .:\..t. ; .1111, ,..;,g. rna. !'hi. ~·If·. Alpha !'hi Il..,JtH. ; ~\. Delta t 'lu. 7 ~;J. P~ rarntd < 'lub ~ ttu l ;1~t\ t 'lul.t .tl1d l ... hull fhnr,~laJ. Uet. 22.- A. .:\1 !11 lu. Suphom11rt' t 'Ja:-::~ I'. :\.1 l~ 4:, :-it uU!:;;\ut Tax l'onltllltt'ef'. 1 110. Tt--l'ta<'P 1 'otttu•J! 1 1~. l~uh}hallon~ Hud.rd. 1 :111. t;autH and ldul, -1 .1111, I~~ro~h F(Jot lJa.U. 4 uu, J:-o,ro~h Crut-t--t·uut•tt y CALENDAR 'l'oday 1:30 p. m. Glee Club Reheat·sa! cbassesl, Washburn Hall. 2:30 p. m. Choir Reheatsal, Memmial Chapel .. COLL~GE WEE:!{.~ND 4:30 p. m lMeeti ng of Execu- ltve Committee of t;raduate Council in the Administration Building. 6:30 p. m.- Dinner, Dining Hall, Hale House. 8:00 p. m. Di,;cus\iull of Pt·es- ent Political THnds led by Professor P. H. }'ren<>h, Fac- ulty Lounge, Hale House Tomort•ow 1():00 a. m. -Daily Assembly, Speaker, LeRoy J Weed \Ul Memorial Chapel 7:30 p. m.---Union - Skidmore Dance, Hanna Hall. COLLEGE WEEK-Jo;Nn PI«>GRAM 10:20 a. m.-Fall Meeting, t 1rad- uate Council, Trophy Room, Gymnasium_ 12:30 p. m.- Buffet Luncheon, Silliman Hall. 2.00 p. rn.-Vat::;ity .lo'uotb·;.Ji, Union vs. Vermont, Alexander Field. Varsity Cmss-country, Union vs. Middlebury. Fresh- man Cross-country, Union vs. Nott Terrace H. S. Reception, President and Mrs. Dixon Ryan Fox, President's House, immediately following football game. Sunday 11:00 a. m.-Sunday Service. Preacher, President J. Edgar Park, Wheaton College, Me- morial Chapel. 4-5 P- m.-Organ Recital, Dr. Elmer Tidmarsh, Memorial Chapel. Landon Suppot·ters Send Bixby t() Speal{ Here Buulell Bixi.Jy, a student at Col- gate Univl'rsity, will ,;peak here next Mon-day aftemoon from the cauvan pf the Independent Coali- tion of American Women, u non- partisan national: organization working for Govel'llOl' Landon, un- det· the auspices of the Union Col- lege Landon ClUb. The trailer, which is touring New York State, is being brought to Schenectady ·by Mrs. Willis T. Hanson, New York State Chairman of the Coalition. Francis E. Townley, '37, acting chairman of the Landon group on the campus, :>ecut·ed the services of Mr. Bixby from M:to Hanson. The trailer, equippt·d with loud speal<ers, will at r-i vc· un the campus at 12:30 Monday. and will tour the campus as it ann uunees the meet- ing. Tiwn at 12 ·15 till' trailer will stop in front of 1-Io:le House, where Mr. Bix·by will ,;penl< over the loud speal<pt· ,;ystetn. \ Initiation Announcement Theta Delta ·Chi announces the initiation of Louis C. Mapes, '38, of Norwic-h, C'onn ·0-- Pledge Notice 'The KupjJa Alpha fraternity takp,; pleasure in announcing the pledging of Brian S T. Simpson, ;Jf Yot·k, England. THE CONCORniENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1936 Skidmore Socials To Be Inaugurated First Union Freshman Dance Occurs Tomorrow Night In Hanna Hall The highlight of the College Week-End for Union students will Mrs. Peter I. Wold will assist. Those who will assist at the Skidmore-Union freshman dance tomonow are in add·ition to Pres- ident and 1\!r,;. Fox, President and Mrs. Moore, Dr. and Mrs. Edward A. Amstutz, Mr. and Mts. Wilford H. Ketz, Dr_ and Mrs. Overton Luhr, Dr. and Mrs. Frank J. Stu- der, Dr. and Mrs. Everett W_ Thatchet·, Fredel'ick A. Wyatt, Maicolm Arny '37, Frank Gatchell '37 Henry Hirst '37, and At thur La~rence '38, and Sally Tyre '37. be the inaugura.tion of the series M y t of Skidmore-Union Freshman par- {J niOll eetS ermon ---0--- ties in Hanna Hall. Tomorrow the first of the four parties will take cContilmed from Page 3) place under the auspices of 11rs. Co1by this year is exceptionally Dixon Ryan Fox of Union College st.wng. Add to this the experience and Mrs. Henry 'T. Mom e of Skid- gained in tlie Dartmuuth and Wil- more College, Iiams gamc>s and )'OU have the pic- 'The Skidmore-Union freshman tllle of a t.eam that is as rapable pat·ty will enjoy the ><ame sport.; and at !Past as eag.er a>~ Union to 6-0 game played last year at Ver- mont. The improved showing . of .the Dutchmen in scrimmage th1s .weelt, combined with the changes m the lineup bode favorably fo.r a pes.~lble win. The impo1 tance of the w~e!t­ end will add to the genet,al sptr• t, which, by the way, has g1:eat!y Ill- creased this wee!{, and 1t would not be at all surprising i,f Nitchman and Nelson were rewarded with at least a score on Saturday after- noon. Let us pray, gentlemen, let us pray. ----·--a--- Catholic Club There will be au 01 gunizution meeting of the Newman Club, for Catholic students, in the Old Cha·pel, Tuesday, October 20th, at 1 o'clock. Father J. J. Collins will be in charge. progmm tomorrow afternoon a:; push ovet· to the inaugural scorP DE WITT'S LUNCH will the alumni and both will at- of the year. tend the tea dances at five of the 'l'he tentative lineup will find and TAP ROOM fraternitv house~. Aftl't' dinner to- Muc-:\liila.n o1· Plumb at one end, Home Coolted Foods morrow ·in Hale Huus,., thc> stu- Budzyna at the other; Whitcomb Enjoy Our Fine Beverages dents of t.he two colleges, will and Howuru at guard·s: Bedell at dance in Hanna Hall. The stu- center_ 'The ·backs are Bedford, 118 JAY ST. dents will meet their \partners\ at Lt'Vine, O'Neil, and Sunderland, Opposite City Hall the President's House. The next nn~1o~s~t~o~f~\~·h~o~m~~w~e~r~ep~r~e~s~e1~1t~a~t~t~h~e~;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;~~;;;;~ Skidmore-Union freshman party r will take plaCl' a l Skidmuz e. I Mrs. Fox will also be host at a tea in her home for the alumni I after the Union-Vermont football! game. Mts. Hanison C. Coffin,' Mrs. George H. Danton, Mrs. Bur- ges Johnson, Mrs. George D. Kel- logg, Mrs. James W. Mavor, and UNION STUDENTS ALWAYS WELCOME AT THE ACME BARBER SHOP Union CoUeg.e ala 1936 Pr<ci>elv tailored tu a roung man'> taste by \\'ib<m.'They tit- they wear ami they're very much Esquire. Note Jim catching F~mml:''.s cyl:'s. .Alt::>u .see th~ new \Ytl~on shirts \\llil dal'lt lJ, dies aiH1 \\lute l'{lllat aud l~urr~. ('Chu1J~t! you1 own l'nll:ll) PIME GROVE DAIRY, lncm WHERE SERVICE IS A PLEASURE .-ldvana Guard Fashions /Jy \\'ib,on Brothe\ V.INICI<'S 118 S. FERRY ST. • TAKE A fliNT FROM THOSE WH 0 INHALE To true smol<e lovers- those who inhcle regularly -thegentlenessofo light smoke holds c special at· traction. But even though you are just on occasional smoker, you will flnd wei· come throat pr()tection in 2. light ~ .. ~A Lucl<yl SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 509 UNION ST. NEAREST THE CAMPUS - 467 STATE STREET It's a liqht Smoke! -whether or not you inhaae! The joy you'll find in a light smoke doesn't de- pend one bit upon the kind of smoker you are ... how often you smoke or how many Luckies you smoke. The gentleness of a light smoke, and the blissful throat-case offered by that exclusive Lucky Strike process known as \It's Toasted\- they are simply bound to please you. And so will the taste of Luckies, for they are made from the highest-price::J leaves of the whole tobacco plant -the tender center leaves. A light smoke of fra- grant richness. A light smoke kind to your throat. \SWEEPSTAKES\ FLASH! Picks Winners-Husband Forgets to Mail Entry Mrs. Joe D. Pridgen, Jr., of Durham, North Carolina, was a very happy person when she heard that the songs she picked were winners in Your Lucky Strike \Sweepstakes.\ But as she writes: \Now I'm plenty mad at my husband, who forgot to mail my winning entry. He's not very popular at home right now.\ Have you entered yet? Have you won your delicious -Lucky Strikes? Tune in \Your Hit Parade\- Wednesday and Saturday evenings. Listen, judge, and compare the tunes-then try Your Lucky Strike \Sweepstakes.\ And if you're not already smoking Luckies, buy a pack today and try them, too. Maybe you ·vc been missing some- thing. You'll appreciate the advantages of luckies - A Light Smoke of rich ripe-bodied tehacco_ ' a~ OF RICH, RIPE-BODIED ~BACCO-\IT'S TOASTED\ Fox Rmn For G He. Vol. LX., 1 Colleg4 Is No~ Drs Fo: Midsumme Days W By Fa Sees l~ Objectives, l' Would M Bes1 Saturday, ' College\ of U tion to be he: ing the mid announced b~ an Fox at tb Silliman Hal also told of of Union Col A select list ars on the f! dent, will co the \Alumni pected that alumni will other.\ Alumr bring their Special provi to take care graduates an the intensive morning hom gram of 1 ec noon, and Drama Festi• Many Dr. Fox P' the eollege v drive of Sar George and principal re1 would be able the mid-sm work. In his tal luncheon, the the alumni tl: some \d1 eam future of U!! that the objec would take n: main objectiv Union College for educabl1 tnen.\ He reporte, achievements proving the J and phlysical years of hi• concluded wit develop that asm\ which, provide the c of support, fr friends of the it to achieve Relations Continue In The Union Relations Clu inaugurated this afternoo tound table problems. W. who delivered ture in the C Richard C. of the club, s all probabilitJ discussions wl cast last ye W2XAD will I aged by the • the programs from many ~ and abroad, t sent more det rent topics in President :C fessors Williar A- Larrabee a bell, and Mr. : act as faculi talte part in LR.C. broadca In addition grams, the cl and enlarge it debate instru ganization at societies. Las conducted dis, sonville and camps ..

young They h~v're Nl)te ,;; ry\s. lute 'S I • I .. e e s : I ! ' Fox lis Rmnored For Comell Head Alumni College To Begin I 11 Summet· Vol. LX., No. 9 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y.,TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1936 W.ArnolrlForster,SpenverLecturer, Dr. Fox Is One of Four Men Presents Four Policies for Peace Mentioned as Cornell Head Midsumme~· Sessions of Four. Question of Whdhe1· They Our Responsibility Is to Make ReuniCJn on Ithaca Campus Mali:es Union President Candidate for Farrand's Place, But Fox Days Will Be Conducted By Faculty Scholars Work, Forste~· Leaves Democracy Function, He To Audience 'I'f.llls Assembly Has Had No Official Notice Sees Union's Future Objectives, Costing lVIillious, Would Make Environment Best in Country ------0----- Freshmen and Upperclassmen State I. R .. C. Makes Plans Opinions on Disciplinary Measures For Busy seas 0 n Should freshmen who have ever. \I think it is a part of the --- broken class rules be made to wear game,\ he said, \that freshmen be Relations Club Expects Tc placards publicizing that fact and . subjected to the rules. I have no to parade in pajamas between the objection to it, I am not strongly Continue Broadcasts, ('('(' halves of a football game for dis- opposed to It at all. If freshmen Instruction obedience? This, it seemed to The can't take it, that's just too bad.'' Concordiensis, presented an inter- \When a group of students from esting problem and a reporter in- a 140-year-old institution,\ declared terviewed several upperclassmen, . Hyman A Enzer, '38, \b.ave to plas- The Union College International sophomores, and freshmen in an ter freshmen with petty inanities fit Relations Club, formed last year, effort to get a cross-current of cam- for a girls' finishing school In order inaugurated its year's a.ctivities pus opinion on the two new rules to make them \feel\ the spirit of this afternoon with an informal put into effect by the sophomore the college or of their class, I think 1 ound table discussion of world disciplinary committee. the mentality of that group of stu- problems. W. E. Arnold Forster, d t h h d t t who delivered the first Spencer lee- The measures which state that · en s as rea~ e a sa. e compar- ture In the Old Chapel last night. < 1) any freshman who breaks fresh- , able t?, parests tsoftenmg of the man rules will be made to wear a bra!~!): . Richard C. Snyder, '37, president placard with the words \I broke Wtlltam .K. !;otts, co-c~p.tam of of the club, said yesterday that in freshmen rules'• written across it . football said: In my opm~on the all probability thP series of radio for one week at all times while on punishments are rather strtct, but discussions which the group broad- the campus and that (Z) the guilty the conduct of th? f:l:;~shmen fully cast last yt>ar over VVGY and freshmen if there is a sufficient warrants such actwn. Wells Den- W2XAD will be continuPd. Encour- number, .;._,ill be required to parade nlson, manager of fres~man cross- aged by the enthusiastic comment up and down Alexander Field at the country, also declared m favor of the programs of last year drew half-time of the Williams game clad the rules, \I belie-ve that the pia- from many parts of this country only in pajamas drew interesting cards are a very good Idea for pun- and abroad, the club pia ns to pre- comment from those approached. ishing unr~ly freshmen,\ he s~id, sent more detailed forums on cur- \and I am 111 favor of tile marchtng rent topics in the future. The sentiment among the fresh- 'at half-time for the more serious President Dixon Ryan Fox, Pro- man class, which is most concerned, offenses, such as gross insubordin- fessors William w. Bennett, Harold seems to be strongly against the ation.\ A. Larrabee and Douglas W. Camp- rUles. Most of the first yea!' men Vibert Fryer thinks that \the bell, and Mr. Frank Mannheim will interviewed object to the proposed placards might have a very good act as faculty advisers and will measures on the grounds of \child- effect on the freshmen. The march- talm part in this capacity in the ishness\ and \silliness.\ As one AI- ing seems childish and I don't know I.R.C. broadcasts. den Mullins, put it: \I don't think whether It wouid do any good or In addition to the radio pro- parading at the Williams game In not.\ Among the sophomores inter- grams, the club plans to continue front of towns-people Is a good viewed James Mulcare had this to and enlarge Its worlt in the field of idea. Some sort of freshman disci- ·say: \The placard idea is all right, debate instruction and forum or- pline is naturally expected, but for something has to be done to ganization at CCC camps and other making a public demonstration be- make the fr<ish obey the rules. The societies. Last year the members . fore V'.iSitors would be going a bit marching exhibition would provide conducted discussions at the John- too far.\ • good entertainment for the crowd, sonville and the Speculator CCC Bailey Stone, also of the fresh- but the effect on the freshmen camps. . man class, thinks differently how- might not be so good. ----0--- Graduate Council To Award Medals In 01•der to eheck on rumors here that President Dixon Ryan Fox is being con~itlPJ'ed for the prt>sidency of Cornell University, ThP Concordil'nsis wired the Cornell Daily :Oun for confirmation. Wht>31 Dr. Fox was shown thP dispatch published below, which d()es not comP from official Cornell sources, but from a student, Ft•etl~ri<>k Hillegas, he said only, \The matter has not been bt'Oitght to my attention.\ \pedal to The Concurdien:oi$ ITHACA, N. Y.~Dixon Ryan Fox, Union College Presi- dent, is considered here as one among the first four men who will be mentioned by the Board of Trustees committee of Con1e1l University that is to make its initial report ~November 7 regarding a successor Ch l . T h to President Livingston Farrand, ee ess f 0 fl g 70-year-old Cornell University head. President Farrand intends to retire Hears Sound Truck il.l June. after holding the post smce 1921. '0 Susa.una' and F.D.R. Taunts Fail to Dislodge Hale House Patrons Monday, Oct. 19.-The Republican party's candidates, supported by the Independent Coalition of American Women, hit the Union campus by proxy tll.is noon as a sound truck accompanied by part of the Sche- nectady social register ground out \0 Susanna\ and a political speech by Burdell Bixby of Colgate. For almost 10 minutes, the truck, parked before Hale House, 1 eceived no resp~nse to its sound system, but as students finished lunch, a trickling. shifting crowd that neve1 numbered more than 35 stood, watched, and from time to time heckled. Bixby, speaking f10m the point of view of a college student, claimed that the N'ew Deal is selling stu- dents in to slavery and is intro- ducing E:uropean measures to solve American problem::>. He said that Other Possibilities Named Other candidates for the office, according to rumors prevalent among campus leaders, are Whit- ney Hart Shepardson, international executive, Robert Clarkson Clo- thier, President of Rutgers Univer- sity, and Edmund Ezra Day, prom- inent economist. It is well known that the choice 1s to be made at the Fall meeting of the boa1·d. The t·ecommendation of the committee members is expected to play an important part in the deliberation of the trustee.; before they cume tu a flnal decision. Campus: ProphPts Favor Day Late::;t \money\ seems to be on Day. A native of B1 onxville, who is a well-known economi::;t and direc- tor of social sciences for the Rocke- fellet· Foundation, he is 53 years of age and a graduate of Dat tmuuth College. Decides on .. REcognition Meritorious Service to Union College\ of the mait:t Republican objection to the New Deal is that it is not con- scientious, .not sincere, and is cater- ing to the same cla::>s of people that Hitler attracted, in order to build The special C'ommiUee was ap- pointed some months ago by Judge Frank E Hiscock to find the suc- cessor, and is headed by J. Dupratt White, prominent Cornell alumnus. Alumni sf'ntimPnt ha\ to be taken into consideration, Inasmuch as a poll has been ma.de, but the trus- tees havP kept the results to them- ~E>Ivt•H, and thP final derision, de- spit~ the unusual amount of Inter- Psi. may name a man outside the qua1·tet. That is now receiving the mosl unofficial consideration. Saturday, Oct. 17,- F\ollowing three years of delibel\ation the Graduate Council, alumni govern- Ing body, approved in its meeting Saurday morning tile public recog- nition of conspicuous service to Union College by the awarding of medals to not more than three alumni in any one year. The Coun- cil adopted the rules drawn up by a committee consisting of LeRoy J. Weed, chairman, T. V. W. An- thony, Spencer B. Eddy, and Wil- liam Greeley. A medal may be given only to an alumnus of Union wh() has ren- dered meritorious set•vice In the promotion of the welfare of the college, either throUgh continued effort in maintaining class or alumni ~rganizations, active par- ticipation in alumni or college af- fairs, or assisting in extending tl!e usefulness, Influence and prestige of Union College. The executive committee of the Council will choose- the three recipients from the nominations previously pre- sented. up a strong dictatorship in this country. The delegation wu::; headed by Mrs. Willis T. Hanson, ::;tate chair- man of the Coalition. There vvas no applause after the speech. One disgruntled fre::>hman, eyeing llis rathet• worn sartorial display, remarked, \They come around In swPII Buieks and tPII ue about so~ial justice.\ There was no applnulf'P aftPt' Bixby's speech. One freshsman, surveying- mournfully his rathet' worn sartorial display, remarked, \They come around in swell Buicks and tell us about social jus· tice.\ i·~·;· :~·::+::·~ ··!+!•; ::·~}· .. :•::+!·:· .:-.~::·:. ··::·~··· ::·::·~~ --- ()- Frosh Placarding Causes Revolution Student Body Meeting Be- comes Hotbed of Rebellion As Law Is Laid Down f;,1 NEW DEALERS .o'·· ~ i Rising in revolt against the first ~.- REPUBLICANS ~.- testtictiuns put upon them by the ~1 - · - ,-, ~uphomore DisC'iplin>' Committee r.-.·~_.· FASCISTS ~ yest~rday morning aner the stud- •• , .,. ent body meeting in the Old Chapel ~ ~ 200 freshmen refused to weat· their ~·~ REDS ~.'. green and black dinks, marched in k~ ~ order across the grass, and to show ~ • ~·'. an even more determined spirit of ~·~ ;.~ reaction, marched boldly through In elections held at the meeting, ~ Vote friday ~ the front entrance of Bailey Hall James E. Finegan, '02, President , ' .,. singing \La Marseillaise.\ of the New York City Municipal i in the ~ The revolt was the direct result Civil \ Service Commission, was H CQNCQRDY of the attempt on the part of the ~!:~t~~~Z::~~e~~u~~~~n~~e~~~ ~ POLL ~ ~~~~~arroges~:~~tt~~~o ~~~c~~~~! was one of the major events of the ;:~ ~ dressed in placards which they will College Week-End, which brought ~ for ~·'. have to wear until the next Student many alumni back to the campus ~ PRESIDENT l• Body meeting. The freshmen went for an Intensive but informal .pro- !.-~ ~ Immediately to the Memorial gram of games, dances, and visits ' in Assembly .-! Chapel after the meeting to take to classes, as well as the attendance ~ ~ their pictures--and they refused to of tbe Vermont football game Sat- ~·~ • .•.; wear their little dinkies! urday afternoon. ~ ~ On the question of clruss officers At the meeting, Leroy J. Weed, (',:i .=.nd· then w'ln '· at the student meeting George P. '01, was elected Vice-President of \\' ;;•; Haskell made a motion that was ~ ~ the Council, and F. B. Richards, ~~ A FREE CIGAR ~·: seconded that each class should '88, Treasurer. Dr .. Charles N. Wa!- q ··' elect its own officers. ~ ~ dron was re-elected Secretary, to il'li e ~?, Considerable opposition was continue in the position he has held ~·1 ;.•; made to the proposition, although since the beginning of the organiza- i (5) FIVE (5} ~ one of the Burke boys defended tlon 25 years ago, and D. Richard ~·~ ·'\' Haskell's motion with several Weeks, '28, was chosen his assist- ~·~ of Hem will be given ~·; asides on the unfairness of the ant ~ t th 5 h ~ student counci'l. · ~··· away o e men w o \' Edwin G. Conde '93, Edward J. ;·~ guess the winning candi- ~~~ Vincent Smith defended last O'Connell '11, Har(Jld J. Hinman ~ h b b ~ week's motion that the class offi- !99, and William H. Mandeville '15, i.•s date and t · e pro a le t~; cers automatically be those stud- were elected membe1·s-at-large with ~ number of his votes on the ~ ents elected to the student council, terms ex:plring in 1941. Spencer B. ~-·· ·bl k • F 'd • \to save time\ and bathe!'. One Eddy '18, and Weed were re-elected ~ contest an m rr ay 5 ~ heckler reasoned with him, \we as members-at-large, and Dr. Franlr (·~ CONCORDIENSIS (•; have plenty of time.\ Chairman Van der Bogert was elected as rep- i ~ Robert Everest postponed the vote resentative of the class of 1895. 1't+:r:;:~~it+!~}!t{~!;:.~::•~~:~::•::~:.:•~~!~:~t+:!!;:;~~{ until next week.

Two THE ·coNCORDIENSIS, 1'UESDAY, Oe'J1DJ3illB :20, 1936 ~irusiS ers; instead of that we should go W·itl1 the I intention of returning so hoarse that Hon-1 day classes Will hav.e to oe lectul-e <lOlll'SeS. COLUM~ ' ··II'.· ···-=A=R=o=u=N=o=r=H=E=w=o=R=t=o;;;.!J - \- By RICHARD SNYDER \A Causa Per sa Parole .-1 ssai\ FouNnEt> 1877 [q36 Member 1q37 Rssodaled ColleGiate Press Di5tributors of Conee>iafe Digest Sule and. txdtt:-.t\'c natiunal uUvt·t !1:-;tn~ rt-·pn:'~t·uta ttv~s ;-o;.A'I'Ju:-;,\L All\'J.o:I:TISJ:\{; ::lEtt\'1<'1·:, 1~>,. -1:..!0 :\lallt:-.on .. \vt!uue ~L'\\ Yolll: t'lt) ·Chil'Ub\'' ~ Uo~tuu - :-;a.n F'taJa·bl·u Lu~ .\llt.;t\!e:- l'uitialld w ~ttt.tth~ The official newspaper of the students of Union Col.Jege. Published Tue~days and Fri- days throughout the co'llege year, except dut·· ing Christmas and Spring L·ecesscs. ----~·~-- .,_ -- Publication Office, The Gazette Pre:;s, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y.,_Telep~<J_~e 4~~!-~~ Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Mattet• --------- ·--· ---- Subscription ,pt ice Five cents a copy; $3 00 a year; delivered anywber~irl the _Unit~d States. Editolial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. 'Telephone, Sch~~ecta.dy, _4:?_13~ .. Senior Boa.rd Norman R. Stewa1t. ........... Editor-in-Chief {'hi P~1 Ludt,:;t: !-~~~~:.:~ S. Ralph Cohen ............... ~Ianaging Editor ::-)illnnatt ll.t.:l t-n·nc~ Fenton A. Gage.......... . ...... News Editor lh·lta L'v:,llou n .. l! .. t:-- t- ;~•:!:.! Milton D. Bedell. ................. Sp01 ts Editor VL·lta L't,:::.tlull llot1~·>t·•- i-7:•:!:! Donald Ford .............. Circulation Manager l'hi 1'~1 Ludgt:-4-6~,:.;~ James W. Righter ........... Business Manager Della t;p;rtun li':'_IN'-t-7~==- __ Junior Boud ASSOCIATE EDITORS Carl 'Trahman Willard Dean Edward Barry Robert Doig Hyman Enzer Henry Hartmann Robert Ferguf:on Melvin Muroff Sophomore Board Assistant Editors M. Depp, F. Hequembourg, P. Humphrey, \\'. Hitchcock, D. Taft, R. Walter, R. Morgan. D. Miller, J. O'Brien, B. Rathbun. J. Smith. Issue Editor ... .. Rouert Doig Assistants Carl Trahman Robert \\'alter Tuesday, Octobet 20, 1936 THE SPIRIT THAT FAILED A small huddled gToup of football enlhu:-;i- asts b1·aved the ::;pomdieally belting· slwwer:-; Saturday to watch in comparative sih•nct> two tPlllll:\ unidPntifiahiP in thPir rnud- soaked uniforms, and ftve ut' six cheer- leaders wn·y through t IH•.ir prog-rat.ll:-\. That at least woultl be tltt' pidttr•· any pa:--~t·r-by would :o;c>e, dr·iving alotll-! .c\lt•xandt•r l·'iPld. ancl it \rould ~Pem ridi£·Hiou~ to him under the ci1·cumstances. The players played thL·ir parb \\L'll and then some, and the eht>t'I'lt>arlers shmwd signs of 1eal interest 111 theit· jou::;, in eum- pari~on with tlw fir,;t honw ganw. Hut tiH' spectatm·s---w<•ll, tlw~· turned out an~·war~ they seemed to know it was raining, and they were most cel'taillly mvm·e of the neigh- bors around them. fo1· sewml were seen talk- ing to each other, but as for the game, they eithet• could not see as fat· as the field or else they \Vere trying t.o figure out why so many happy morons Wt'J'e hanging on the fence, which separates l ·nion from Schenec- tady. Afte1· the fir:-;t touchdown wa:s made, hardly a llllll'IliUI' PSCapPd from the oJeech- PI\S. The fans sf'n,;t>d tilt> nltimatP outcome then, and pulled their !tats uuwn a little farthPr oVPr their ear~ :t.nd raised their coat collars agai11. It was tit!IP to retum into their coma, olJliv-ious to all that was hapJ)~>lling around them, they thought. We think it noteworthy to mentioll the Cuba has broken a precedent in decided improven1ent in the ch ee:rle2.ding In the lower- left-hand corner of And the same thing must he true of: drawing up her •new constitution. staff. The addition of several l1len has !10- F!iday'B ~On<!ordi-en:o>ls appeared the student council which sta'l'ted Latin American nations have, in thi.:s li!ttli!' ,biJiet-ilotLx fro·m the Dis- the S.D.C'. off on the .path o! pad- general, followed the principlell ticeably pepped up the tempo of the direct-. cipline Cornndtlee. \. , . The first dling and placards and :paJamas .. embodied in .our ·own constitution. · · 1•1 b to l'equr'J•e all Fo1· m!Jv should they WUJ::lt to spank , But the small island ·protectorate itw:, and in vie'\' of the fa·ct that .t}.'i\\ '''a.s· new.Jn.ea:=;m-e v:.. e ' . \ J \ ' ''\\ \' vlolato-rtl of ,tJ-:..e fresll.man rules to freshmen if they til€mselve.,. has established a semi-parliamen- the fil'st time some of them had partici pated• weal' :pia. ca.t:·tii; ·in 1'ront and back hadn't been plentifully spanlwc.; tary for:m of government with re- I O \in _.llel·l o'~e~ \e lf there are bv their papas and manmas? sponsible ,ministers who can he in such capacity, they deserve s~ci:al men- =~o~ghg~ folato-,r~\' ;;;;;.,.,:,e~n now and J membe1s of Congress. the t1n1e of ti:J.e Williams game, it We'd always heard that. people There are s.everal reasons why tion. : is planmdt<Jbave 'the guilty fresh- who had gotten as far- a.:s c0l1ege Belgium has returned to her old , men clad onl:y in tl!eir pajamas had grown up, and we thoug.nt policy of neutvality. The sudden par·ade •o::IT 1:he field during halves the remark rather trite. change is a .result chiefly 0f exter- . can')'ing. 1Jroo1r1s or .paddles to keep But .now we're having diffilulty; nal and internal ,pressure. (]) In- each ·<Hiier 'ViU.l'ln.. \ 11nding anyone of sultic!ent stat- ternational failure to prevent the • ODE IN. P~R'A..IJ~E OF KEEPING u1e to be in sight. remilitarization of the <Rhineland; PEDPL:E IN 'TH:EIR PLACE In fact, H w.hat is quoted above (2) Fear that the Franco-Russian tPro-vicled. of rom·se, that the represents maturity, Pact might draw Belgium into a THE TERRACE COUN CLL? place can ·ue .fou·nd.) We are all fOL' teethin!i ·l'i ngs and canftict that did not concern her if 'I'l1e Tell'ace CotlllCI.l w·h1'ch 111ee·ts sll\I'tiy bottles in all their unallo:yed pur- she was allied to France,· t3J The · • , \ ' If ther-e· is. a11 \(hlll:..g in which we \' ity. Belgian population is evenly di- once in its career served a valuable. e-nd.: since tel::y l:dieve, it il:l keeping But it is still necessary to keep the. vided between French-speaking I · l · 1 people· in th.eir· pro.per place or freshmen in their plaee. . Walloons a:nd Flemings who have ,ong smce, lOW ever, Its PO\ Vel'S 'lave ev a:p- si tua \tlolltl; And that is the pro.blem which thlE ~ German dialect which in turn om ted into thin air and in pursuit f()!low As, fot· ltutanc e1 i11 church, nobody suggestion was designed' to face. leads to a disagreement as to the functiOilS. In other wm·ds, the Council expect~ Ul-e·r:nlnist:el\ ~o sit in the Now this is the little scheme that . vvhether Belgium should depend on ·back 10 ,v, .01· t·h e congregation, we brew. France or not. The new policy en- must soon cease to exist or reorgai1i~e its€lf. Or, again. IV hen Dlle dr:·ops in at the Why not require the freshmen to a.bles Belgium to demonstrate her 1 t can, of course, become established in to an ?resi del::lllal :Mansion to call and tequire the S.D.C. to r-equire the independence to Germany and at knocl!s; student council to translate the the same time be assured that hollOI'at•y SOCiety Whet•e its traditiO US Will lJe One d~.eu'l ~xpec:t to -..valk straight Alma Mater into Hebrell\ 7 F'tance 1vill resist any violator o·f l into thE lut ch-en ami find the And for every misLake they ma~l her neutrality. Belgium has really [Jl'l':Set·ved in deference to its forn1e:t' gO.ry. dishe:s•l>eing wasluti• by Dr. Fox. they would have to stand on therr only asserted her desire to be And it might well l'esolve itself to such a ·,At this point we l\ill call a brief hands one hour in fr<Jnt: of the omitted from any plans for col- halt ur ·the ronc-ortion of this Ad. Building, lective security. fate. Here is a body, the sort of \Vhi·ch is hash. Which would give the freshmen The Reich Colonial League, t·he l't·l'og·nized at most colleges, which lJy vil'tUe To thanit uLJ,t he Httle IJ!u .. dt>vib ::;umething tu look at and Dr. German spear-head for acquiring for· O·gdoen• Nasl'l.l Fox something- to ·point out to colonies, will soon be abolished. of its tradition, lends a great deaJ of C(}}Ol' Now ur-i<~ .s the ques tiU>n uf what to guests, and they would look espe- Reason: Germany would rather tu the campus. Out· keen but friettdl-..: rivzls do with HH :Fr..,~bm<:>n, uur local cially nice if covered. wH~ gilding. have Great Britarn's friendship at J tyros. • Or, to reve1·se the srtuatHm, you present. Great BrHain holds the at Clinton have honored their oatstanding Which <111estiort always semi::; peoplP could lay the fr·eshmen end to lion's share .of tile former German 1-. h' spr·rln r'r1~ r•p r·n t'J'tel!e~ttlal auto end on all tne cam•pus paths, sue!, colonJ·a·l emp1·1·e. sunlwmores and J'uniors with menll.;el·s 1p -= ~ '· L ~ · • ~\' gyros. as from the Chapel to Bailey England is apparently tired of into D.T. and Was Los r•espective]y, Uni<Jn, Now if\\\ had anyt.hin.g to say Hall, excitement. Patching up a few about the· lll'=!H .,r hut of course And thPn un ::;J,ippery days th.e rest holes in its. armament, Downing tu uur knowledge, has never organized! Salle- we f>-11rEn't . .so 1 ve should lteep of us could wall{ to class w1thout Street will relax. for awhile and tiuned, not• encouraged any such soci€ties. our t :rap shut. the slightest risk of a :fall, cease offering international cures. And If \'~e did :say anything the In fact, when we look at a plan Having failed to bring about accord Perhaps they might lend the desi1:ed class Disci:pllne 0om.mittee would be such as this is, in Europe by the means of diplo- unit1· and consciousness within the colleg·e hunti.:ng fe>r us all over all sorts We think that at the art of keep- matic conference Great Britain J of\ maps, IT ut ing people in their place the will try to iznpos~ serenity on her which later make for stronger almnni affilia- Who ar-c._..e to be a:fraid of a mere S.D.C. is a bunch of sissies. neighbors ·by setting a good exam- tions. conunitLee •. 1ve who are a ram- To tell the truth, we thinlt it would pie herself. The policy goes a little pant indlvi.dJLal, be a very nice rule, further ·in assuming that Europe's Beside wl:omn anv g:L'OUp shrinking If the S.D.C. were made to organize dictators will quiet down if they together- for sel f·cf.efense is pure- a mce little boys' clwb in a Junior are not taken so seriously. ly residual ? High School, HOW ARE YOUR MARRS'! So we :yleJd to lll'mptation. We de- FH II II cicto • vvvoocla.dbwpuatr 1 ·iens.to increase th~ iocal SECRET SERVICE To say- out our ~:Say- and go away and blUe, P.S.-We don't !il{e the ·p:r:·oposed !.!;;;;=============;;;J In the :first place, w-e new freshman rules. '!'here is a - h Shall 1·efe ~· l o '!the ·Sop.homore Dis- limit to what we dal'e €Xhibit at Young Burke-which one we An important reason why so ma.n:r fns - ciplinarF ~<Jnl!mittee as the S.D. C. a football game. don't know-again shot off his men and some others are always dejected at Or the Socially lJe'Valuated Crea- P.S. No. 2--We were wrong about mouth in Student Body and al- tllns the lights in the library. There though it was obvious that he was least four times a year is that tbe:y have Who ,proi><rbly hJLw .painful infer· are only sixteen of tllern. And, tallting through his hat, there uever been taught how to study. As:sutni llg' lority arru parental interference no doubt, they still make a very were a few grains of truth among- written all ov.er theit• features. attractive display. the chaff. At any rate, he said that this art can be acquired, a few of the enough to get Prexy Everest's most important techniques are offerecl fOl'll I na~~Y~ertainly rang the hall when _\'Ulll' enlightenment. H () 0 I{ S C 1 N EM A he mentioned \deals.\ It is common knowledge that the Inde!]Jendent Intet·est in the subject is a Lasic llect:;.~ity. ~,;;;;============;;;!.! By JOHN B. DOWLING machine has at last the organiza- lnterest comes from work, however, rnore tion to run the show and that they EYELE..SR. 11\l OA..:ZA., by Aldous have ·been doing so; also that va- than work from inte1·est. How to develo]) in- Huxley. Harper & I~10:;.; -ti3 pp, rious fraternities have been play- As good entertainment as any to tel 'e\t ill a seeming·ly drab and wea.risoi-ne October 12, I4o92: Once there wa:; be found in the downtown houses ing ball in· order to get in their \' a ~I t ti · t favorite sons. C(Jul._,e (1\f the1·e at·e a11y at Uit!'on:) 1.\ the Bnt ess~ ·.~ · a vtiel}\ dnel es::;ayls today is The Great Ziegfeld at the It is not our policy to take cracks .., .., u I!Ovou:y ~oul rea tis essays. Plaza through Wednesd~y. This t t . B 'J k f' 1 1 ~o he.te>ok :hL~ 1·rr.y fi.J.n£• t·,;:.ay,;, an·d colunln had occa~t·on to review the at personalities, but we do con- lie X lllles lull. est e::; wor u t 1e u~ua ~ d th 'd b incorporated . Ut-e? 1 ~to .. ~ovels .. at picture last year when it was being emn e 1 ea ehind it. In by- !'olltine J11[1J1Jlel', try thinking 3bOUt (he gen- WhictJ h f 1,;\a,_, j)a>SUl g fall_. fn con-, shown at le::;erved seat prices on gone days perhaps the independent · d 1 If · sequ(>nee, pe<Jpte Je.ad Ius novel- the road. s 1 ·nce that tr·rne 1 .t has group failed to achieve its full due et·al ftel • As~ '\OUl'se 4Uest10ns. t·aise 1101 th · \ e::;say' ,. O\VVevPr- EI.S . P yean; Wt>nt bet~n ~5iven general release and is m cam ,pus repre.,entatiun, but on nt·oulems related to the subJ'ect. 'l'!-\ to con- on, he Cl).neentra'ted less on thr now in the senond run h . the other hand can one find fault ~\' J no1·e·l nl 11 ·• t h · · · t'll ' ouses. '.IJ.th th 1 h · a . • It\ II. on e es:;a}. un 1 Playing Its uncut Iengtll o:f three · e c asti c o1ceo of a few tied the WOl\k With ,\fOUl' fUtUre VOCatiOll, fin. ally he \i.VI'Ote a 'boo!t: \Vh!Ch was I hour>: the film scorno f . b . years ago? They WE'I'f' thP lads WhO D. · j J h !JI\ t' 11 '1 1 ·' k 1 ·, · · ~-- 01 emg an were doJ·ng th· d d d 1seuss w 1t t \0Ul' c assmates t e interesting ac Ka l \- ·e:<>lo!.J an u veJy s \'· intelligent and en·' yabl f' t· _ mg-s an eserve \ etaneous ·!Love!• ]Jiot . . ,o e IC ron the recognition. points brought out in class 01' in Louks if Juls 4 I.1·7o6 0nee there was a rzmg of the_ life of Florenz Ziegfeld, No one ever took much stock in f . d h 'II Manatee \v- .ho ui dn 't like humanity f~r presentmg a number of enjoy- offices other than a.s an honor. We you can Ill anyone W 0 WI CO(}pe:r.ate. I Ulal or· li!Jb.:ani ty. va~ity or san~ a le perfo.rmance::;. of 'Y'hic~ we feel that It is the> way they should Habit plays an impot1ant part in leal']ling ity. He tou.ll [1:; tnale l1omos.exual an ma:y mentwn LoUJse Ramler s es- be lo?ked at, and that your out- amattur .~r:::ustltute;,, Com~tunbt~ of PP<'lally, ~nd for present.ing with >llandmg athletes, actors, singers, to concentrate. Decide in advance just; what two or tht'Ee sexes, ciivers trpes of a no,stalglc splen~or several. musi- etc., should have thesp jobs. As it is YOU Wish to aCC0!11pJish in all eVellillg '()!' a penet.t::;. iL. ·l>'hri'<liu~l'=lt, un anthro- <'a! . l'llu,;nce::; Which .are citmaxed now, where the hell is the honor in pologist. a.nti <~ ~e>clologist-cyni<' by the, A Pretty Grrl Is Like a being class president when you've Wet>k, and check up on yourself. YoU'll l.Je for hero: who WaH of course the MPlody spectacle With its sweep r~liroaded in on the u.mpty-ump amazed. Cultivate regular hours for stlldy, Manatee· 'lie put th•~n all in a book and restramt. trcket. and let t~ ~nl! talk about life. He . Again Miss TemJile The Student Council is a horse and adopt a permanent place where you will was a lllo log;ist-M:a!Latee, so they Drmples <Twentieth Century- of a different hue. Here again we not devote half of your time to beco-ming ac· spoke i>'lel1:!:ty allout ll~e. In fact, Fox; Proctor's) presents once more 0 P.ine t·hat the college has declined they got snm tty-. So lots of people the most popular movie actress of mrserably. For- yom· governing body quainted with the lamp, or the m·na te d~COl'· 1vant ed to r~ad th.e beautiful blue the country <on the- basis [)f box- you. llhould have a fair amount of ations of ''OUl' sunoundings, Outline d iffi- boo!t with go !den str'ipes. office receipts), Miss Shirley- Tern- bra~ns, for when this important re- \ Le 11 .J.ui lle-t, 1 78!)· EYELESS IN pie, age seven. qui rem en t is ignored., is it any cult work, or better, all work, and you w'ill GAZA t 'J:II::Je uppr-ae:ntly referring In the current screening <>f that reason that numerous lads don't I I th . to Mankind, vlu_ t:he Biblical Ram- young lady's considerable talents even bother· to attend the meetings not on Y se ect e Important faets f{)l' fu- oonl, Ilk e· all of ·the novels of AI- sh~ is called upon to portray a of that august body? We lay the tun~ I'eview, but you will be rehear-sing the dous HLI_::xl~:v. ha:s f'or ltH thesis the waif living with Frank Morgan, a evasion of politics on the campus propositions t.ha t ~II Man Is vile, broken-down actor with a c:o 11 genial also at the door of the Student Vel',\\ movements which you will Ia tet~ have and all •Errdea'Tou r _futility With tPndency toward thi.ever:y. They Council, fm· if we remember cor- lu reproduce. \\'hen reading, pause lung th£> r hnrart -ers 11 '=' llep 3 ct.s, he prove:,; encount .. r the l{indly and W€althy rectly, it is their ·duty to examine his !JOint. Eu'i. then. I don't know Helen WeHtly, who offers t<> take return\ in sea 1 ch for \d·eals\ and enough at the end .of a. page Ul' ch~pt~1-, tu 8 ?~budy hl!::.e t.Ju~ character::; h\ dP- the waif to live with her aftet· her to art accot·dingly. recall the main points which shoul(] 'be re- prcts. '!'he solutio%!: aecordm,; to favorite nephew leaves her to pro- Tl_Je Credit Mobiiier was a bunch Huxley, WIJOo for- H1e flt·st time on duce a play, \Uncle Torn's C':abin.\ of t_rn-horns on railroadin.g in com- membel·ed. It will :save emLarras::nuent Jate1·. •P<'urd ufler: '~ \'\l~ti<~n, tt> Univer- Morgan finally agrees in <Jrder to par1son to the .Student Council and \\'h t . th' l h qal Fea;ce ·out nf' Unity, which get some money and help .out the Joe Cannon isnt' even in the ~arne en j\OU ll1US memonze any Ing eng·t. y, so.unds !Ilte u race lmrse, or Father nephew. Piotty complications en- school with Everest. Witness Man- write it a few times, recite it, a11d then Dtvlne. . sue which in the end man t day morning ... a motion was July 28, L914. ihef..:~rmat of this reconcile aunt and nephew nag~ 0 stranded on the floor allegedly pig·eon-hole it until the next day. Spaced ?o~k .. whlclh I a.m here Imitating, and fiance, redeem thP aid~~ ~: through. lack of timP rtim.e devoted learning i:s IIlllCh easier and a time-sa ve1·, ;~r~rriiat h~g Jt;; bn~iridLLai dr~p- bate and give Miss Temple an Pop= .to taggmg unwary frosh) in Slpite . me eu c Y dates wh1ch portunity to play Eva's death see of the fact that the ~peeling clam- providing it doesn't degenerate i 11lo tou ~ump UJ> and di}\Wr:l Uhe chronoiog- in \Uncle Tom's Cabin\ ne o~ed ~or a vote. Must the forces be much space, and too little learning. ~:!vi~;de;;r ~or ~~~~~:ry- i:n~~:~=~~ IeyM;i'mp~~an~c~~~~~e !l~i~hthae Shir- orgamzed ·be.fore the action can be The• v·ise stude11t wlto alt·ead': 1.\ 1··11' \l' ... '\t- dates tecuJI! at IVJuety seattered four t 1 ·mes . . 1 .Ppear takden? In sho.rt, what !n theory is • \ \ ~ _.., parts f tl l! 1 Ilk . a year WI h the ·Con· a amn finE' tdPa of grving honor d · J 1. · 1 · h 1 · d 0 1 e · 001 r thl'mes m stancy of th I d and recocrn;t· h e Ill t 1e SUujects W 1IC 1e Is stu yil1g-, V\'h{) <lrchestratlo·ll .All of which is good And 1 .t . h ed steasobn~. o not. a•u Jon w ere they are due C bl t ·t b t k; 18 ar o eheve tilat so ha.s deteriorated to a wat·d-heeler's is aiming for something later, and wh<J em- re~<li~g.\u' u IDa -es for hard many normal}y sano: -peo:Pie can WI angie. Ess, Ess and Bee. ploys some ()f these methods or wh(} ·doesn't October lo(J lO~C· And et I · break down mto qlllvering senti- EYELES~ :ii:N G..AZ..A •l\uxy 1 like ment~lit;r at the spectacle o:f her mo - · · Fortunate!~·. a handful of lu~ ~d a.luntUi rooters kept an an111si JW and Ill PITY din m evidence above the stJll'IIIIIity of thl' other spectators. ACl·oss the slough, thuugh, the Yermont Land ~et up a H·ritaiJle hullahl.Jul- lah. Apparently they were determined at any cost to do what their football team could not. Now if twenty fellows, encumbered with musical instruments, can demonstrate their enthusiasm the way they did, sm·eiy three or four hundred Unionmen should be able to let the people in Central Park hear thJeir yells. Too many of us go to be silent watch- have to, may state that if you a1•en't b<Jl'll .... t·t 1 . · .. ey may explmtatron. The cleverness d VIes IS rn carefully written sup- •ue sno ;y, ~ <ILllg: V\Vahlower like actual talent f th h' an port roles \vhlch do not call upon with a certain \love for learning\ all the Dean Sw-ill, but he •!so n.evertheless questioned B~t the ch lid ca.nllot. be them to be so Impossibly precocious Sy stems in the universe will be of no \V\l'l, .. scintlllatingiy briliialt t and unex- she portrays in o~~ ~ract~~whwh as! In the typical roles alloted Tern- <> \' pectedly :funny. ~betiler you read other that f m a er an- p e and Freddie Bartholomew The ideas herein presented, nevertll€less, his latest vorJi, at~d whether you emotional a~ a per:ect, at;=lultly r:nost recently In The Devil Is a like it. or -~ot, .d-epends upon how .searcel on n t reaso~mg, ]ll'J.g, is SISsy), Since people apparently like are psychological faCtS, and might dt> a little prone you 11-l'O t<VWEUd picking dia- apprecktion e O exCite intelligent t~at Sort of thing, put it down tO good. nJ.onds ou.t ~!ad! lllt.glWU. H M'S tbi have always maintained that WJsh-f~lfillment. if you will, in lieu , e P\ope\ 1 ., of their own nor-no II t , · · · · . • . • P Jl.Pe ,.or cbllctrenl~ the ous xnoppet~. 4 .,a y can anker- Dutchm~ Troja11 Without Ba1 net Gric Jiiirs1 Brown ( Adams, Lew care, All S1 Well iu Rainy, mudd) nish ideal· pla~ Union's athletes ! , a week, the Ga , victories under ! , conditions. The and the cross-cc opened their se! the varsity ere registered a per ing the Middle! varsity football game losing str its fkst poi11 ts Vermont gridd afternoon befor• who were bacl1 Jeunion and eel Brovm ~ From the star made clear that to win the gam the spectators' J fulfilled, for 011 nie Brown, Gar off tackle and the only touche I Smarting unde1 1 Vermonters tigl 1 . the var::;ity thro I half and the tt 1 ,· disaster again 01 holding Union o I · Vermont toolt t However, on tl l Vermont back f , from center and : the end zone f• r again threatene quarter, but a p sary roughness and Vermont downs. Passes Few- Umbrellas wer the fairly cro• many a press n tions upon the u the god, Pluviu: :;how of affectic {)f the second q the condition of weather, few pa ed, both teams plunges through and off tackle .:sli throw one pas: quarter. Most o was done by Ern 'Thomas, 140-Ib. Union team, wh vine carried the for Vermont. E1 Billie did a gOO< ing because the! Fnion outgainc yards to 36. Fh·st Union kicked back to the Ver plays availed not Hicked to her 41 yards through th the ball off tack! to a touchdown touchdown was kicked and Unior to the 19. Ero'.l thP Vermont 26. for 55 yards an, balI and reeled 1 ball on downs ! danger. Union s• down but kicke1 The teams exch: and the qua1•ter attempted a pas! Second Vermont openE scored a first c plete passes g.a\ The teams €xch each had made a took the ball on two plays made: 55. Vermont tool thirty. The team kicks after ineff, line. Vermont n down and then k 15 as the half er Third Vermont klcke turned the ball tt at the line falied· to Vermont's 40. the 50 on a firs gain no more a kick to Vermont and Green fumb <>overed on the .1 changed. Union then quick-kiclt judged the kick l the 5 arid ran i Vermont returne1 Union's 40. :Ero\1 for a first down quarter ended. F()mth Brown went t< plunge gave ther the 15 • ..Brown we peated to the 5 down. Brown pl1 foot line. A cen nothing. An ehd unsuccessful and ball ()n downs. ( Plumb fumbled :

in stitution. have, in stitution. tectorate with re- can ·be why her old sudden of exter- (1) In- the eland; into a her if (3) The enly di- have in turn as to on en- her and at ed that o·f really to be for col- the rather at the German of a few and I cures. accord diplo- Britain on her exam- a little if they ne we his al- he was thet•e among- said I when dent ganiza- they va- play- their cracks o con- In by- due but ou fault a few who ock in We should out- ingers, it is in you've horse we of re- any don't the pus r cor- amine \ and bunch com- and same Man- was spite clam- be be is e due sup- upon Tem- Is a like to lieu \ THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1936 Three D t .h· S' t F and the ball rolled over the end I . I v •t H • . : U· c men . e l. or . zone for a safety. Vermont !ticked I ',INT. RAMU·RAL. s J arsJ y ' a. rr_Ier.s T . s ..1 to the Union 49. Union's return } roJ .. ans: a.turuay kiclt was nearly in the coffin corner pease Coach Ketz but rolled over the goal line and !,;;;;;=============;!. Ha.,,·ks Leads Hal'l'iers As Union Defeats Middlebui'Y Myers, and Denton who finished in that order. Rooker of Middlebury was the next ntan across, and then three more Union men plodded D.renched and dripping, Captain down the track- Annese, Thomson, Bill Hawkes led the parade of and Ray Denton. It was a surpris- Without Bathing· Suits, Gar· net Griddel'S Record :fiiirst Victory was brought out to the 20. Vermont tecovered her ltick to Union and went through the line to the thirty. Union returned the kick and made a first down on the 13-yard off- tacl\le run :by diminutive Willie Thoma::>. Union's kick was fumbled Brown Outstanding Adams, Lewis, Ladue, Mul- care, All S()phs, Show Up Well i:u F·il'st S·ta.rt and Jake Amazon recovel'ed on the one-foot line. A 15-yard penalty for unnece13sary roughness put Union back on the 15. Vermont held and took the ball on downs. One run- ning play was unsuccessful. Then she completed two passes as the final whistle blew. Statistics Rainy, muddy day::; seem to fur- Union Ve1•mont 33 nish idea]. playing conditions for ·Number of rushes 42 Union's athletes. Four times within t rushes) 166 a wee·k, the Garnet has registered First downs tl victories under extremely adverse Number of passes 2 conditions. Th.e frosh football team Passes completed u and the cross-country runners ·both Ground gained opened their seasons with victories, Ground gained the varsi~y ~t·oss-country runners tpasses, yards) registered a pel'fect score in .defeat- Punts tavg., yds.J ing the Middlebury team, and the Fumbles varsity football team broke a three- Penalties game losing streak when it tallied Ground lost its first poi11 ts in defeatnig the tpenaltie:oJ Vermont gridders, 8-0, Saturday Pos. Union afternoon before numerous Alumni LE Lewis who were back for the week-end LT Ladue Jeunion and celebration. LG Adam::; Brovm Scores Eal'iy C Bartun From the starting whistle it was RG Potts, cu-c.apt made clear that the Garnet was out RT Chapin to win the game at any cost and RE Mulcare the spectatms' hopes were quickly QB Amazon fulfilled, for 0~1 the sixth play, Er- LH Thomas nie Brown, Garnet co-captain, cut RH Haskell off tackle and raced 36 yards for FB Brown, co-capt. 0 23 5 3 36 3 7 2 16 25 5 1 5 Vermont Plumb Holley Husing Bedell Trottier Howard Budzyna Levine Sunderland O'Neill Berry i . the only touchdown of the game. ~core by l'el'lods j Smarting under this action, the Union .. , ......... 6 0 1 Vermonters tightened and battled Vermont 0 0 I· the var::;ity th!'ough the rest of the I half and the third quarter before I . disaster again overtook them. After holding Union on the one-foot line, I Vermont took the baH on downs. However, on the ne:xt play, the l Vermont back fumbled a bad pass , from center and the ball rolled over : the end zone for a safety-. Union f again threatened late in the last quarter, but a penalty- for unneces- sary roughness ended the threat and Vermont took the ball on downs. Passes Few-Plunges Many • 0 0 2 -8 0 -0 The finals of the intra-gwup track meet held last week were releasee! Saturday and :>bowed that again Psi Upsilon held down first place. Alpha Phi Delta, Delta Upsi- lun, and Kappa Alpha captured the place, and show honors. The total results a1·e: Group Psi Upsilon ......... . Alpha Phi Delta .... . Delta Upsilon ....... . Pts. 32 1 '2 191,;~ 14 Kappa Alpha ........ 14 Delta Phi ............ 13 Phi Gamma Delta .... Phi Sigma Delta South College ..... Chi Psi .......... . Phi Delta Theta Kappa Nu ....... . 1F2 10 1 o 10 9 6 3 Beta Theta Pi . . . . . . . . 1 Lambda Chi Alpha . . . 12 Phi Sigma Kappa . . . . ·1 Kappa Sigma . . . . . . . . 3 Alpha Delta Phi . . . . . u Men 10 9 12 9 6 6 tl 6 6 18 6 7 5 •! 5 Sigma Chi . . . . . . . . . . . 0 3 The Alpha Phi Delta::> won the winnerf:l' bracket in the touch foot- ball. Today the Phi Gamma Deltas will play the Lambda Chi Alpha::5, the winner to play the Alpha Phi DPitas to decide the championship. The football field meet will take plaf'e next wPek. Rules governing this mePt will be in the fraternity boxes in the gym by Friday. The time limit for playing the quarter-finals in the tennis tourna- ment has been moved up to Thurs- day, Octobet· 22nd, due to inclement weather. Cuach Bill K~tz should be well cross-country men home for the ing enough victory, for although plea:oed with the Varsity Cr·oss- sec~nd time this year as the varsity the odds were fur Union, no one country Team'::; showing last Satur- I teatn Saturday completely outclass- ex.pected such a oae-sided race, day afternoon. Btll Hawltes came Ill <>d M·iddlebuz·y and won ·by a -per- much Jess a perfect score. a full minute before Wells, second I feet score, 15 to 40. Hawkes paced The race itself was run under the Union man to finish. Only tw~nly·i the field f.wm the very start, ac- most diffieult of conditions. It was eight second,.; sepat:ated the seco~d quiring a five yard lead in the first raining slight!)' when the runners Umon runner and the folll·th, whtle quat·ter mile, which he gradually left the gymnasiufn, and at the mile the first Middlebury runner to cross but .:seladily increased until he was mark it began to really pour down. the finish line was eighteen second::; far in the fore, finally fini:ohing a The boys were drenched to the short of two minutes behind ~ootl minute ahead of the second· bone, and running thmugh the Hawkes. Of the first thi.rteen ~ unn er, Ed Wells of Union. swamp covered them with a nice places, 10 Union men took places to .Mi<ldlebury, accustomed to a four layer of mud. As the first men three .for Middlebury. Hawkes was mile m·ce, was evidently fl·ightened came around the la::5t corner by the five seconds behind the ma.1·k set by the Iangel' course, and had ac- Phi Delt house, it was hard to in the Vermont run but the in- tually beaten themselves befo1·e the recognize them, and it was not till ct·eased \Ioppiness of th\ track ae- race began. However, it was doubt- they reached the track that they counted for that. F. Myers moved ful ,if anyone could have caught could be identified. up in the MiduiPbury race fmm No. Haw.kes, for he ran but five seconds 1JI••••••••••••••IIIIIl•••••! 5 ruan tu No. -!, replacing Ralph Blower than he did over a ·dry 11 11 Denton. In the VPrmont run, Den- cuurse la~t week, and fini:ohed as • For a ton was thP fourth Union man to he u:::;ually does fresh as the so- : Sanitary and Efficient : flnitih, but in the Middlebury tussle called daisy. Ed Wells was the sec- 11 Myers beat Denton in by seven. onu man to follow Hawkes across •. BARBER SERVICE =. seconds. Well::> and Sheffer finished the tape, and he headed three other 11 11 as they did a week ago, No. 2 and GarnEt sophomores, Sheffer, Frank Bl Demand to see this card when 11 3 respectively. Ill you ent<·r a Barber Shop. II -----0----- • • FRANK FERRARO = = FRUI'l' and PRODUCE : = Notice Til'kets fur the HPJ fuutball The Best, f()J' the Least, With• • • game at Tl'Uy Saturdar are now on Dependable Service :l : sale at tht• !{~·mnasium. They are • • $1.65, all resPned, and can be pro- 1231 Ct·ane St. Tel. 2-7828-W • II c~~u;re;d;;u;p;;~u~;l~1~a;·~~;~~~-~S~a~t;u~td;a;y;.;;;;;;~;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;r; 5 5 f; • II • II HENRY·s BARBER SHOP BARBERING and MAtliCURING N. Y. C. Ar-cc:~de • • : Union Barber Shops for : =: Unio11 Boys : E LOOK YOUR BEST : • ! ••••••••••••••••••••••••• • Umbrellas were at a premium in the fairly crowded stands and many a press man hurled execra- tions upon the unprotected bead of the god, Pluvius, for his needless ::>how of affection toward the last of the second quarter. Because of the condition of the field and the weather, few passes were attempt- ed, both teams relying upon line plunges through guard and center and off tackle .:slants. Union did not FOR BlG MOMENTS -A light Smoke\ - It's a liq ht Smoke! throw one pass until the third quarter. Most of the ball-carrying was done by Ernie Brown and Billy Thomas, 140-lb. halfback on the Union team, while Berry and Le- vine carried the brunt of the toting for Vermont. Evidently Ernie and Billie did a g{)od job of ball-carry- ing because the statistics show that Fnion outgained Vermont, 166 yards to 36. Fh·st Quw·ter Union kicked off. Levine ran It back to the Vermont a5. T-..vo line plays availed nothing and Vermont kicked to her 45. Thomas made 8 yards through the line. Brown took the ball off tackle and ran 36 yards to a touchdown. The point after touchdown was missed. Vermont kicked and Union ran the •ball back to the 19. Brown again took. the thP Vermont 26. Vermont took the for 55 yards and a first down on ball and reeled through left guard ball on downs and kicked out of danger. Union scored another. first down but kicked after two plays. The teams exchanged punts again and the qua1•ter ended. as Vermont attempted a pass. Second Qu.arter Vermont opened with a rush and scored a first down. Two incom- plete passes g.ave Union the ball. The teams exchanged kicks after each had made a first down. Union took the ball on her 45 and after two plays made a first down to the 55. Vermont took the !tick on her thirty. The teams exchanged three kicks after ineffectual tries at the line. Vermont made anothee first i, · down and then kicked to the Union 15 as the half ended. Thir<d Quarter Vermont kicked off. Thomas re- I turned the ball to the 30: Two tries f at the line falied- and Union kicked I ; to Vermont's HJ. Vermont went to the 50 on a first down but could 1 gain no more and was forced to kick to Verm{)nt's 35. The Yellow and Green fmnbled and Union re- <'overed on the .34. Punts were ex- changed. Union tried a play and then quick-kicked. Levine mis- judged the kick but recovered it on the 5 arid ran it back to the 20. Ve['mont returned the quick kick to Union's 40. Brown went off tackle for a first down on the 25 as the quarter ended . Fomth ~uarter Brown went to the 18. A center plunge gave them a first down on the 15.1Brown went to the 9 and re- peated to the 5 for another first down. Brown plunged ({) the one- foot line. A center plunge gained nothing. An ehd run was equally unsuccessful and Vermont took the ball on downs. On the neJCt play, Plumb £umbleti :Sedell's pas~ b~ck =· .. ... ·:: dd . bells - exciting We mg k' • 'th lots of smo mg. ttmes, \'' t and C . der your throo onst • h oke h for a !!.a!:!! ~ reoc -f Lucky! reach or a ... Cop!'l'lgh11V80, '.rhe .American ',J;'obacco Compnnll OF RICH, When Thrilling Events Lead To Constant Smoking! When you're excited ..• nervous ... happy and thrilled, you smoke many cigarettes without thinking about it. Make your choice : light smoke. Smoke Luckies-for Luckies are a light smoke of rich, ripe-bodied tobacco. They are made of the center leaves of the. finest tobaccos that money can buy. And they are t:be. only cigarette in which you'll find the all- irn p~nt throat protection of the \T casting» process. Yes, the only cigarette. Lucky Strike ... the fine-tasting cigarette , .. the cigarette tbat \lives happily ever-after\ with yow throat. * '* \SWEEPSTAKES\ FLASH! * * 17 Winners in Alaska and Honolulu I Eleven men and women in far off Honolulu and six way up north in Alaska know their popula.r music so well that they have been able to nrune thetoprankingsongsinYour Lucky Strike \Sweepstakes\ 1·2·3 -just: like that. Congratulations ... and good luck to the many other far-away \Sweepstakes\ fans. Have~ entered yet? H:ave yon won your delicious Lucky Strikes? There's music on the air. Tune in \You.r Hit Parade\-Wednesday andSaturdayevenings.Listen,judge and compare the tunes-t:hen try Your Lucky Strike \Sweepstakes.\ And if you're not already smok· ing Luckies, buy a pack today and try them. Maybe you've been miss- ing something. - 11 1T'S TOASTE DAI

. . Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1936 Political Factions Active in Planning Each to Attend Gavel Club In .Body; Fa1·ley Gh·es Dems Chnter Both campus po.Jitical o1·ganiza tions, the H.oosevel t-rur-Re-electioll Club, and the Landon Club havE: rnallt! exten:;l v\ !Jlano '''\ ru.,et Ul!:!.\'• addresse», ;parades, and' other dem· onstrations designed to further the ~hatu.!es of their l'eti.!Jtt..:tJV\' ~arH.ii dates at the polls in l:'.uvember·. The Roosevelt C.lub io; ~C'hedulea to hold a business meet111g at ·, :3\. thb evening in 81ll imun Hall, afte• which the group will attend in. a body the Uavel Club Politica. Forum to be held in the Old Chapel at b.UU tonight. Tluuughout the re· mainder of thio; weelt. the mernbe.ts plan to canvas the c1t.y tn behalt 01 Dr. Earl E. Cumn1.m::,, who is 1 un nmg for Congres::; u11 tht: L>ento· -cratic ticket. Po1·ster Presents Four Policies Toward Peace (Continued. from Page 1) J'OU do or· do not take sides against war. CALENDAR Tonight 8:00 p. m.-Meeting, American Society of Civil •Engineers, Student Chapter, Engineel'ing Building. 8:00 p, m.-Open Meeting, Gavel qiub, Old Chapel. Tomorrow 10:00 a. m.-Dally Assembly, Charles H. Reeves, '37, Memo- rial Chapel. 1:00 p. m.-Glee Club Rehearsal (tenors), Washburn Hall. 3.30 !J. 111. Col~l.!JI~t~ Gl~e Clu!J Rehearsal, Hannah Hall. Thul'Sday lu :Uti a. m.-Datly Assembly, Mr. Albert P. Bantham, '24, Memo- rial Chapel. 1:00 p. m.--Glee Club Rehearsa,l (basses), VI/ashburn Hall, 8:00 p. m.-Junior Discussion Croup of Engineers, General Electric Co., Civil Engineering Building, Room 201. Fl'iday 10:00 a. m ... Daily Assembly, Dr. Tidmarsh, Memorial Chapel. 1.00 p. m.-Glee Club Rehearsal (basses), Washburn Hall. Alumni Defend Democ1·acy F~·iday, Oct, 17.-\If we expect to maintain our traditional American democracy in an Increasingly Fas- cist world we must adapt our tools of government to the task of mail- ing democracy worll under modern conditions,\ said Dr. Patterson H. French, professor of government, in a talk on political trends before a group of alumni returned for the college weekend tonight. The three specific issues which !Jr. l:t'rench broullgt up for dtscus- ::;ion were, \the problem of democ- racy vet•sus dictatorshi-p; what -role a federal form of government should play in the moder.n world; and the new problems of govern- mental management arising from th~ steady increase in government activities since the great war.\ In conclusion he stated, \A few people are saying that democracy and liberty have outlived their u~e­ fulness. I do not share this· pessim- ism. I am more concerned with an- other charge--that democracy lacks the power to adapt itself to pro- gress. The Democratic du:b i;,; in 1 eceipt ~f a certlticate !rom Natwual .1:-'an~ Cttairman James A Farley recug· nizin-g it as· an enrolled organiza- tion within th!:) puty. Tlw dtar tet was received ye,;tercl.ay. The last po !icy, he defined as col- lective action in prevention of war. He discussed t11e extent to which this policy was being followed by Ute United :::ltates and the seven elements of a collective peace sys- tem that have developed since the \-\'u1lli Wa1. ltl:'ganllng the recent I proposal\' by the United States gov- ernment for u Pan-American t..:ullfer.,Ju;\ lie<ilt:ated tt; tltt! purpose of preventing war in this continent he sta.ted, \:your government ha~ proposed an extension of the re- nouncement of war as a national policy, extension of the Kellogg Pact. ·would it be possible,\ he asked, \for American policy on re- nunC'iation of war·, and on reduc- tion 0f arman1ent.,; by intet·national agt·eement to succeed unless there' wer·e furthet· <'uupet·ation for pro- moting pPaC'·eful change and for preventing and stopping change by violence?\ · Ill UUtillJtng the seven elements rr;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;_;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;_;;;;;;:;;;;_;;_;;;;;;;;;;;~ The Landon Club is lt!bm piannmg to go in a g-roup to the Gavel ll ut. tonight. Francts E. :rmvnle)., :! ' pre,;tdent of the soCiety, saru thal the Landonit~s will ·• ratse a gene>ra. ruckus, just a,; the Democrats are expected to du .. at tlte disc uos 1011. The Landon1tes h~ve plauued u Landon Rally to be held in the Ole; Chapel shortly be fore electiOn. Their :;pealter will be> Frank Crowther, Congre;,;sa1an tron1 this district, who is opposing Dr Cum· mins. The group also plan, to at· tend in a .body a rally for Candi· date-for··Uo\'ernor .l:!leakll'y tJ.t the State Theatn· They plan to throng the Coalltion meEttng tomg ht at the Grand Boulcvatd. A set ie::; uf twelve ·bulletins against the New Deal. the unt oi which deals \\ itl1 guvc.-nlll<.!nt spending, will be issued by the Landon club from n.m1• untll elec tion time. --··-·- ·U -- -- . Translate E\periences To Religion, Says Parke Sunday. Oct. 18-T'ranslatmg hu- man expenence into a mean• for understanding and seeing God, President J. Edgar Parke 01 Wheat on College gave tht ee way~ in whtch God teve~I. Himself to man, in his sermon in the Sunday mornmg Memorial Chapel. God, he said, speaks to u, 1 through our own experience. The' only way He is Jevealed to man is! through man·, own efforts in dally! life. The ability to meet problem:>. face difficulties and disappoint· ment:s, 1s a requisite to Gods Jeve· lation. President Parke f.>OIJJteli out. \this my;, tic spirit of Jeligwn is tl.e 1 welling up within one·, oelf uf hi::; own experience in to a unity. This I \\'0! killt-: 11\Jf (If !l Jift• :-:l !.(' .. (' t'l! abh•,; u,; to see mu1e cleaJ ly. Secondly, He reveal• Himself to u::; by our respect tt> those fl ienus who can help and advise us because of their own experience. It is in our respect and honor fur those who have accomplished thing-s be- fot e Uti and who are- no\v our guiders that God !Llak.e,; Hin,self known to man. But there is another \vay that an understanding of God come' to u,;. When we are at the end of our own capabilities and thE'JP ronte>>' a point when we or our arl vl:;ers can nu I longer help u~. then a hi!lhet powet I assist:; UH. The puiJ1 t in a man·,; I effotb where he no longeJ <.'an prll gress further Js the plae.e where an as::>t>tance, und,,uJ>-teuly f1 om <iud, 1 bnngs hrm cumfo1·t WILl LoiJe. a I true Il'VPlatwn of Gu d 0 'Charlie' Male Improving· The condition of Ptofessor Charle::; T. Male, as,;istant comp- troller and professor of mathema- tic::; was reported as not set ious, a.; he was returned to his home yester- day from Ellis Hospital wher·e he received treatment foz injur i\'\' ous- tained m an aut<>mubile acl'ident Saturday morning. Profes~or .Male was driving to Schenectady on wet pavement on the T'1oy Road v:hen his car slipped and the rear end swung around breaking off a tele- phone pole as it struck. He escaped with bruises. .. 0 .. -· Council to Sponsor Pep Rally There will be a peJ> rally on the campus Friday night befot e the R. P. I. game $ponsured by the Stu- ct;nt Council. The band will parti- Clpate, the usual marching from one fraternity hou•e to another will be included, and the whole event will be climax:ed by a bonfire on the Graduate Council Field. The rally will begin at Sill\irnan Hail at 7:30 p. m. David MILler '39, Ben· jamin Rathbun, '31), and Richard Kennedy, '37, arE in charge of the event. necessary for a collective peace system, he· included: machinery snd system for conferences in time of crisis; t·enunciation of war as an instrument of national policy with- out ftrst attempting other means; con::;tructive services of peace build- ing leading to social justice; provi- sion for peaceful and absolutely necessary change m the status quo; provision for arbitration-a perma- nent court, reduction and contin- ued suppression of armaments; and sanctions to apply to those who have broken the peace. ·0- Placement Bureau Notice All oeniul'$ from C. Morrison thr ~ugh G Witbeck are requested to 1 eport at the Placement Bureau, Room 6 of the Administration Building, before the end of this week J. Fisher and C. W. Hannock ALPHA DELTA PHI ANNOUNCE That they will handle GENTLEMEN·s CLOTHa lNG from the best and most distinctive retail shops in the Capital District. -Polo Coats ~Suits -Shirts ~Socks ~Ties I Ready Made and to OrderJ ·~ •• • Professor Sayre at Meeting· Professor M. F. Sayre, associate Party Representatives Meet Before Gavel Club professor of applied mecllanics, wiH --- go to Cleveland, Ohio on Monday (Continued from Page 1) night to attend a joint c<>nference American Women working for the of the Amet ican Society ·for Metals election of Alfred M. Landon, will and the American Welding Society, present the arguments in the Re· extending over the period of four publican case. days, from Tuesday, October 23 to the following Friday. Dr, Lewi Tonks, frequently a Professor Sayre will read a paper candidate for office on the Socialist on \Elastic Properties and Thei~ ticket, n.ow r.unn~ng. for Congre~s­ Relationshlp t<> Strahl Hardening, man from thts dtstrrct, and chair- and as chairman of the committee man of the League for Industrial on ::;pt!t:lfwation fur w~hl-le::>tin15, he I Dem0cracy, v.:m present the case wiH make a report to the rnembets for the Sociallsts. of the American Welding Society. · All the speeches will be limited to ---u---- · tifteeu minute::;. Ou the conclusion Kellogg Speaks Tonight of the ~0rmal presentations the ! meeting will be thrown open to in- formal discussion. Dr. George D. Kellogg, head of the field of Ancient classics, will speak tonight at the meeting of the Parent-Teacher's Association in Oneida School on the subject \Propaganda and the News.\ interested in Schenectady Interested in UNION t-------------·-------, I CanJiJ Shots of 'Fro>h MAURICE B. GRAUBART 1 Revolution .4re i11 Orde•· The Jay Street Jeweler 1 Pictures Printed~ Developed, 1 Delh'ered-24 Hour Service I Lea-N Your Photographs j in Green Box in Ill cove I 1 of Silliman Hall 166 ]AY STREET Watch and Jewelry Repairing a Specialty l_~:=~:~-~:~:~. :::~_j PARKER PENS GAZETTE PRINTING ... thats the whaleman's signal fora smoke And on land and sea, from coast to coast .•. with millions of smokers, men and women .... when they take time out to enjoy a cigarette it's usmoke-0 • •• Pass the Chesterfields,, Chesterfields are milder .•• and what's more they've got a hearty good taste that leaves a man .satisfied. everywhere • Hoc Fe HCllp~l Vol. LX., Troy Jubil Thirty~Si I The tw< gather in ' what prorr and fu11-o1 trict this 1 R.P.I. anc testants, a1 against each program, alt er the varsi1 as the one t schools hav quite some R.P.I.-Union one's own fu The Troja1 in the world year is a pr the Gar•net dominated g schools in have won b over a perio defeated Ur the Garnet v 0. In view of ing balance Troy boys f start putting their win col good to add Having w dropping one charges will slightly bet Dutchmen, \ out of four. at the expem lyn College which also earlier in th glneers for gives Union vantage ove may be ent: no practical Union tilts, ~ dictions are R.P.I. will many of thE here last yea which have gineers the r achieved. G: the ends, V tackles, Ri• guards, and Pep1 Of this te! over the 201 balance of around 175 si:iered pep Kumpf ha;; 1 estr!ctions • known. that s1cal conditic i~ a new fe the ~chool it R.P.I. footba A(!ross the man and Ne lating a goal been the mo defects in til Working ch line, Nitchn new plays fc <Cont Law l'enc~ Schenect: Noted Oper Association Night at The Sche Association, dreds of stt lege and the among its I open its 19~ nesday nigl: senting Lav. star of the I The progr four which out the sea! ant High Sc On Janua noted p!anis ist. , The Orchestra h following rt: program, tl will make 1 the aegis ol on March 11

Club ge 1) for the ndon, will the Re- a e Socialist Congress- chair- Industrial the ca:;e limited to conclusion the to in- n a • • • Beai Hoople For t StS ReP. I. HCllp~,iness Tomorrow Vol. LX., No. 10 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1936 PRICE FIVE CENTS Hoop lites' Sudden Growth Menaces G. 0. P., New Deal ------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------~ Troy Games Tomorrow Mark Jubilee of Union· R P I Series Thirty-Sixth Gridiron Battle in Half Centm·y Of Rabid Rivalry Sees Union Seeking Twenty-Seventh Victo1·y The two fiercest rivals in this section of the country will gathel' in Troy tomorrow afternoon to work on each other in what promises to be one of the mo.st hurly\burly scrappiest, and full-of-action football battles waged in the Capitol Dis- trict this fall. R.P.I. and Union are the con-<So------------ testants, and they will strive against each other in a four-game program, although we may consid- er the varsity football engagement as the <me thrlller to see. The two schools have been foes now for quite some time, and to miss an R.P.I.-Union game is like missing one's own funeral. It just isn't done. The Trojans have all the reason in the world for believing that this year is a prime one to overthrow the Gamet supremacy which has dominated games between the two schools in the past years. They have won but 6 of the 35 games over a period of 50 years, and last defeated Union three years ago, the Garnet winning last year, 21 to 0 In view of this rather overwhelm- i~g balance on Union's side, the Troy boys feel doubly anxious to start putting a few more games in their win column. They look pretty good to add one this year. Having won two games while dropping one, Coach Hank Kump's charges will enter the fray with a slightly better record than the Dutchmen, who have won but one out of four. R.P.I.'s victories were at the expense of Alfred and BI'Ook- lyn Colleges, while Middlebury, which also defeated Union, 6-0, earlier In the season, took the En- gineers for a 13-0 sleighride. This gives Union a one touchdown ad- vantage over the Trojans, which may be entirely discounted as of no practical value, for in R.P.I.- Union tllts, all restrictions and pre- dictions are cast aside. New Faces R.P.I. will pre:;ent in her lineUJ.> many of the boys who were seen here last year, plus some new faces which have helped to give the En- gineers lhe record they have so far achieved. Gilcoyne and Fink are the ends, Warwick and Maricich tackles, Richardson and Smith guards, and Bauman center. Peppy Pachyderms Of this team, there are two men over the 200 lb. mark, while the balance of the team averages awund 1.75 pounds, and it is con- si:iered peppy and fast. Coach Kumpf has placed severe training 1 estrictions on his charges, so it is known that the men are in fit phy- s1cal condition. On top of this, there i~ a new feeling of spirit around lhe school itself, and a new day for R.P.I. football is visualized for 1936. A{!ross the river, Coaches Nitch- man and Nelson have been formu- lating a goal-line punch, which has been the more important of several defects in the Garnet style of play. \Vo1 king chiefly around the goal- line, Nitchman has worked some new plays for use between the last <Continued on page 3l ----0---- La w 1·ence Tibbett Opens Schenectady Music Season Noted Operatic Star Ina.ugurates Association Programs Wednesday Night at Mt. Pleasant H. S. The Schenectady Civic Music Association, which numbers hun- dreds of students from Union Col- lege and the high schools this city among its large membership, will open its 1936-37 season next Wed- nesday night, October 28, by pre- senting Lawrence Tibbett, operatic star of the New York Metropolitan. The program will be the first of four which will be given through• out the season in the Mont Pleas- ant High School auditorium. On January 11 Mischa Levitzki, noted pianist, will be the guest art- Ist. 1 The Cleveland Symphony Orchestra has been booked for the following month, and as the final program, the Vienna Choir Boys will make their appearance under the aegis of the Music AssoCiation on March 16. frosh Revolt Fizzles; Only Le,aders Show V p Tuesday, 6ct. 20.· -That a revolu- tion needs followers as well as lead- ers was demonstrated tonight in front of the Alumni Gymnasium when the freshman uprising against the action of the Sopho- more Discipline Committee ended in a fizzle. The Discipline Commit- tee made several member·s of the ft eshmen class wear placards with the inscription \I broke Freshmen Rules\ and promulgated other· un- popular measures. Wor·d was spread a1·ound by the dissatisfied group that a mass meeting of the freshman class would be held in front of the gym on Tuesday night in order to de- termine what step should be taken to strike back at the \attitude of the Sophomore Discipline Commit- tee. Twelve freshmen met outside the gym and waited impatiently for about a half an hour. When it was apparent that no more were coming, the \revolution\ was tem- porarily postponed, because a quo- rum of the class was not present. -- --·- 0 ·--· Gavel Club Ignites Party Pyrotechnics .Five Party Speakers Justify Claims as Communists, Hoopleites Shine Tuesday, Oct. 20.-- Democrat, Republican, Socialist, Communist, and Hoople party representatives •ook the stand in a col01 ful fo1 t- nightly meeting of the Gavel Club tonight in the Old Chapel, when they gave their !'easons for voting for their respective tickets. Dr. Charles N. Waldron, speak- ing for the Democratic party, com- pared their traditional liberal views to those of the Republican party which he maintained h.a.s been shackled to big busine.os in- terests since the Civil War. Mrs. Willis T. Hanson, represen- tative for the Republicans. called for an understanding of the bene- fits of the \economic royalists,\ adding that our Const1tutiun must not be changed. She cited her ex- perience-s on . a New Deal board, because of which tJhe first began to disapprove of New Deal meth- ods. Socialists for Social Progress \Republicans stand for life as it was, Demoet ats for life as it is, ~nd Socialists stand for life as it ahould be,\ said Dr. Lewi Tonks in behalf of the Socialists. He ad- vocated a socialized state, free lrom the evils of capitalism which he maintained can only lead to war. The case for the Communists was given by Herbert Parker, Sec- retary of the Y ou11g Communists League who maintained that the coming election, as previous elec- tions, was an issue between dem- ocracy and f813cism. The Commu- nistic Party, he declared, was striving for economic democracy.\ The Gavel Club, a non-partisan political organization, is arranging another open meeting at which an advocate of craft unionism, and one of industrial unionism will exJ)Iain the merits of each. The Gavel Club meets bi-weekly for informal dlscussiohs of current political and social ideas. A meet- Ing for electing new members to the orga.li.ization will be held next week in Silliman Hall. Leaders of Union Football Team WILLIAM H. POTTS ERNEST M. BROWN Unto~ lJlal?s )\.lJ.lJ. at JF'oot-ball '\\])ast<trbll? )\12.f¢r~ll. JFools tb~ ~O'fS ~·- -·---~ ---~--------~· On Satui day afternoon, · Novem- ber 19, the 'Va1·sity eleven played a game of foot-ball with the R.P.I. eleven at West Troy. After sevtral minutes skirmish- ing, the ball was kicked across Union's goal line but was kicked out by Towne. The first half ended with a score f~r R.P.I.-according to their refet·ee. During the second half the ball was kept away from R.P.I.'s goal by myste1·ious f<>uls, which the ref- eree alone could see. In the first part of this h.alf, one of the R.P.I.s was injuted l>y coming Into forcible ~ontact with one of the 'Varsity nen. He was carried from the field by two Union rnen. The game then proceeded and the .ball 1vas a.gain kicked across Union's goal line but was captm·ed by Towne and downed. This would have entitled Uni-on to drop kick fi om the twenty-five yard line but an R.P .l. player knocked the ball :t·om 1'owne's h.and, and claimed t JUchdo,~n. T'his. the r.eferee, whc had played fou.r years at Prince- ton 1 ?> allowed. A goal wa~ kicked from thh:; touchdown I ? ) . Then the ball bega.n to trave slowly into R.P.l.'s territory ant finally Culver, after a brilliant rm touched it down behind R.P .I. :, goal line. He then pze.pa1ed to punt it out to be carried in again foi another touch-down, when the ref- eree passed him and said that there were three more minutes left to play. Culver immediately punted it out to Voorhees and the referee ca lied time, and gave the game to RP.I., leaving score 11 to 4 less than thirty seconds f10m the time when he announced that theze \',ere tl\:.rec minutes left. Many exceptions ,,·ere taken tc ;he 1 uling~ of t ne 1 eferee, but with- out effect. His knowledge of the :ule,·· governing the game was evi- .ently limited and the acknowledg- ;nent from him that he had \money up\ on the game was a startling Jtatement from one in his position. 1 Union won the game-·-1886) -------·---------------- Council Supports Outdoor Boys Plan Frosh Discipline Hike With Vassar Disciplhte Committee's Action Upheld By Student Council In Weeldy Meeting Wednesday, ()cL 21.-The Student Council voted to back up any ac- tion of the Sophomore Disciplinary Committee in a.n effort to enforce he freshman rules tonight in its weeil:ly meeting. lt was also decid- ed that the juniol' class will elect a new member to the Council to fill Lhe vacancy left l>y Herman J. Greulick '38, who has Vlithdrawn from college. Alt members of the class of 1940 who have disobeyed the college reg- ulations will be paraded in pajamas before the football stands during the halves of the Union-Williams football game on Octobet· 31. The offenders will be armed with balloous and will be forced to break .hem over the backs of their fellow classmen before- the)\ can leave the .ield. Lo1ver Foe>tball Pri(les? Begianlng Vlith tlte R.P.I. game, ,here will be a pep rally the Fri- day night pt·eceding each football game. Tlte Council h~pes this will help stimulate student interest in athletic contests. Wallace Baker '39, and Ernest C. Brown '37 have been appointed to attempt to lower the existing prices for football games from $1.65 and $1.10 to $1.10 and .65, The Student Council also de- cided to attempt to reserve Hanna Hall, Silliman Hall, or Hale House for dances following each football game. Frederick B. Hawley '38 and Er- nest C. :Brown were elected as dele- gates. to the Interfraternity Coun- cil to be held November 27-28 at Hotel Commodore in New Ym'k City. Some Members to Climb Gnre iVIt. This Week-end; Rest Work on Trails Tz ips to the Vassar Ou,ing Club Cabin at Mt. Wittenbul'g in the Catsltills ·and to the Union cabin at Gore Mountain in the Adirondacks are planned this weekend by the Outing Club. Another group will spend Sunday worldng on the ski trails at Rotterdam, near Schenec- tady. Six men will take the joint out- ing with the Vassar Club, which has become an annual fall affair. The weekend will be spent in mountain climbing, probably on Mt. Wittenberg and Slide Moun- tain. Under· the leadership of Fred _Wyatt, a group of about ten rnen will undertake the task of laying in more wood at the Club\s cabin at Thirteenth Lake. Some time will also be spent in fixing up the newly acquired cabin and hiking on Gore Mountain. 100 Members According to an announcement by Robert Symonds '38, chairman of the club, a meeting will be held about the middle of November. At the present time the membership of the Outing Club numbers one hundred students. New members will be accepted if they show suffi- cient interest in the organization. Participation in at least one of the club's activities will be considered demonstration of sufficient interest for membership, said Chairman Symonds. Relaxation and Meditation Aim of \Hoople-Whoopers\ Slogan .of \Put America Back On Its Thinking Seat\ Spreads to Nearby Institutions; Hoople-for- Happiness New Rage The Hoople-fol'-He:tppiness party, formed only a week ago on this cam pus, seems likely to become a widespt·ea.d inter- collegiate ot·ganization. During its first five days i:t has en- rolled n1.ol'e than 100 \Hoople-Whoopers\ among the students and faculty, and representatives from nearby institutions are seeking to establish branches. This Is the Major . I ' T (JI'-'-A- t:? ~ - Why Is Major Hoople worried'! Because the Major cannot see his way clear in the confused political situation. Why can't he see his way clear? Because political hoop-lah and bally-hoo are too contradictory, too confusing: in fact, they are of- .en nicer names for lies. What does ;hp Ma.jor propose to do about it? i'he Maj~r is out to restore the old .·.._.cking chair and put Amer•ica .>ack on ·its thlnldng seat. \We must ;top galloping and trot a while,\ .• ys the Major. Rotundo Is Chosen Coach of Debating fen Debates Scheduled So Far; .. Co()peratives\ Will Be Main Topic The appointment of Joseph Ro- .undo, instl uctor in economics, as dh ector of debatnig at Union has bee,n announced by President Dix- Jn Ryan Fox. Mr. Rotundo suc- ceeds Frederick Wyatt; who has held that position since 1934. The debating team will open its 1936-37 season With a schedule thus far of ten debates with teams of other colleges. The Philomethean Society, which has sponsored de- bating at Union since tile founding :lf the college in 1795, has a mem· bership now of between thil ty and forty students. The colleges with which debates have been scheduled at present include: Rochester, Am- •lerst, Wesleyan, Williams, Colgate, Hamilton. Elmira, Syracuse, M.I.T., ~nd Bowdoin. To Debate Cooperatives During the present year, the Phi- 1omethean Society plans to sponsor debating as \the expression of a ;incerely held point of view,:• and to prornote interest in the subject matter· of the debate. The principal subject with which the Union de- baters will concern themselves this ye:t.r will be consumers' coopera- tives, a matter which occupies an important place in campus thought at present due to the strenuous efforts being made to form a buy· ing cooperative among the various fra tern ili es. Mr. Rotundo is a graduate of Union in the class of 1929. He is now an instructor in economics and pi·eviously served as an in- structor in English. During his career as an undergraduate, Mr. Rotundo combined a brilliant schol- astic record with a significant ex- tra-curl'icular program, He was .an outstanding wi\iter ahd valedic- torian of his class. At his gradua- tion hE won five prizes. He Is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Pi Gamma Nu, and the Hale Club. Growing dissatisfaction with the bombast and \conflicting propa- ganda\ of the old line parties, led several Union College undergrad- uates to the conviction that the \sharp scalpel of satire was needed to remedy the inflated slt uation of the presidential campaign.\ And so the Hoople-for-Happiness party was formed. From the first announcement of its formation which appeared on Monday's campus bulletin notice, interest in the movement spread rapidly. The Gavel Clllb, however, gave the organization greatest Im- petus when at its fortnightly public meeting, held on Tuesday night, it invited the founders, Henry Dis- brow Hartman, '38, and Julius J. Bundgus, '38, to follow state leaders of the four oldest national parties in explaining their principles. Rocking-Chair ConfineJnent Such infectious enthusiasm greet- ed Hartman's Hoopllte address that on Wednesday the founders were confined to their rocking chairs, trying to think of a way- to cope with the flood of requests for in- formation and especially for the official lapel buttons. What are the Hooplites and for what does the Hoople-for-Happi- ness party stand? is the most often asked question this week. The slogan of the Hooplites is \America Must Relax.\ They ex- plain, \We must bring back the old rocking chair and put America back on its thinking seat from which it will be able to calmly re- view ~ome of the deluge of propa- ganda streaming forth from the radio, newspapers, street corners and pulpits.\ America Must Tr()t Hartman added, \We c.an think best when we are relaxed. Every year a hundred thousand American citizens are sent to insane asylums because they cannot meet the ur- gent demands of the hustle and bustle of the modern .American life. America must stop galloping and trot for a while. He cautioned that \the Hooplite movement is not a joke.J We believe America must relax so it can have time in which to think seriously about political, economic and social issues. Our party intends to satirize the present national campaign be- cause American voters are being made groggy by the forcefully pre- sented, but nevertheless conflicting claims, often self-contradictory, misrep1·esentat1on of facts, and above all, gross evasion <>f issues.\ \The result of this is that we have at best only a foggy- haze in- stead of a sharp outline of princi- ples offered by the parties seeking to govern the lives and f<>rtunes of 150 million people. The Hooplites took their name from G-ene Ahern's \Majol:' Hoople,\ an NE.A comic strip character who \claims everything.\ For their cam- ( Continued on Page 4) ---o--~ Organ Recital Features Handel, Beethoven, Bach Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh Vlill be assisted at Sunday's organ recital, in the Memorial Chapel at 4:00 p. m., by C. Darwin Friss, '37, and Harris()n Oatman, '34, French horn .players. The program will be: I. Tocata in C Major John Sebastian Bach .Adagio Fuge II. Largo from \Xerkes'\ \Water Music\ George Frederic h Handel III. Sextette in E Flat Ludwig von Eeethoven IV. \Danse Macabre\ Saint-Saens

!n ,, Two THE OONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY 1 OCTOBER 23, 1936 1\lessrs. Burke direct their criticisms, rather C I N EM A .. capable leader. To these ends we suggest the ~=============iJI than to a rnisconceived idea of how the Coun- By JOHN B. D_ OWLING \So in Litratuah and the DramJah-\ JUSf IN JEST Lots doin' this past week. It must have been the football team winnin' a game or somethin', Anyway, plenty happened. The printable \A Causa Persa Parole II ssai\ FOUNDED 1877 cil functions. This body should not take too !CJJ6 Member 1()37 idly criticisms dil'ected tmval'ds it, for by At pl'esent the most important appraisim: its criticisms wisel.v it can appre pictm·e downto:wn i~ ,The ·Gene•:al ~ Died at Dawn at the State. The .pic-. ciate the sentiments of the student body and . tut·e opened today and for that · (yeah! ) mac ter is contained herein <yeah! yeah!')· - CAMl'US BAGATELLE: Froelich and Bond had a t·un-in with M1·. Godf1 ey last week at Saratoga and nad to tell the judge aH about it. ... two gentlemen representing colgate were on the campu~; t:\ssodafed CoUee;iate Press t h h · d reason this column wa~ not able to. Ul'll\ t em to t ·eu OWn a vantage. r-eview it. However, from other Distributors of Colle6iate Di5est sourres it is generally felt to be a good melod1 ama. Clifford Odets, the wonder boy of American play- ~ule allll e~dU:o;IVc naHu11al ad\\t'Itu:Hng r~lJl'etit'llti.tti v~~ :'-.'.\'l'lu:S.\L .\lJ\\El:TI::;I:'-.'li ::51!:1:\\ICE l11c· 1:.!0 .Mutii~Oil A Vt:ll Ut: l''!RESHMEN! .FACE THE ISSUE wrights, acclaimed for his play,· \'i'a.iting For Lef.ty, authored the. l\ilm. And it was felt that ::1ince he w eane>lday in seavch of our star c 1 e::>nman football player. . . . I wonder'! .... .l:o\rank t-'hlllips had a tiwell time af,er the Delta 1-'hi :'-:e\\ Ymk L'Il> Clucagtl ~ l:·•~t't•tt ~ San J:.'nU1tbtu !'urtluud • !'\t·.attlL· Lc ·~ .\11 ,t:lt..:;:. Depredations on the quietude and solemn- ity of the freshm~n dormitories have caused man~· to wonder whether Ol' not the place is a 1mn;ery. Fmm the decorations which flutter in the l.Jreez.e we judg·e the freshmen hm·e but slig-ht artistic appreciation, and al.J- solutely no sense of propriety. had been ::;o socially conscious in his plays, the public might expect a !Jict ure i-ndir.:ttng sGate pha::1e of the . social :sy,;,tem. I imagi·ne Mr. Octet::; . dance on,~· he had a ha1·d timu >l:eepin' llts ca1· on the road ..• , . . among those clo::1mg the Won.len ·::lunduy -morning in a shower of orew were Jack Bowie, J::;ob Denz- The offici~:tl new::1paper of the students ot Union College. Published Tue~days and Fri- days throughout the college year, except dur- ing Chrh,tmas and Spring 1 ece~::1es. Publication Office, The Gazette- pl-:e~s, 334 State St., Schenectady,_~.:. Y., Tel_Elpho~e~~41 __ Entered at the Sc-henectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscript-ion price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; dellvered __ :mywher~_ln_the U~ited .States. Editotial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone,_ Sc~enectady, 4=0133. Senior Board N01 man R. Stewart ............ Edi-toi·in-Chief Cht l'bt Ludgt: -4-G~:tl S. Ralph Cohen ............... Managing EditOI\ S.llirnaH Ha:l---t~Ul33 Fenton A. Gage .. ,., .............. News Editor !Jel ta l'psiluu lloUN·~ l· i~·~~ Milton D. Bedell. ................. Sports Editor l.Jdta C !Jsiluu lluu:,e-l· 7:•2~ Donald Ford .............. Circulation Manager Chi l':;i Ludge-1·65~7 James W. Righter ........ , .. Business Manager l.Jdta Cp,;iluu llvu_,....-4-_7_~-~-~---- J unior Board ASSOCIATE EDITORS Carl Trahman Willard Dean Edward Baxry Robert Doig Hyman Enzer Henry Ha1 tmann Robert Ferguson Melvin Muroff Sophomore Board Assistant Editors M. Depp, F. Hequembourg, P. Humphrey, W. Hitchcock D. Taft, R. Walter, R. Morgan, D. Miller, J. O'Brien, B. Rathbun, J. Smith. It was the opinion of the administration when they \\'ere estal:Jlb'hed that fre::;hmeu dorms would act as a ::;ocializer, and amalga- matt' tht•ir residents into a unified group. Pr()ctors we1·e to maintain decorum, to see that no one disobeyed t·he l\Ule::; govel'lling dorms, and to be a good moral influence over the inhabitants. The opinions of upperclass- men differed widely on the issue of fl·esh- men dorm~ last year, but freshmen felt so ~trollg-ly in favor of it that the plan l.Jecame a re<:tlit~·. Apparently the underclassmen still favor freshmen dorms. However it seems a:; though the conduct of certain freshmen, liv- ing ir1 the dorms, hal'dly warrants their con- tinuance. As long as pandimonium reigns and other overt actions of puerile degener- ation continue to l:Je perpetrated, it is not be- yond l>elief to think that the privilege which perrnits freshmen to live together will be withdrawn. was restrained from tlti::; by th(' .powcts in hi:; studio a-nd had to c:un tent him;:,df with nothing more ~.xcit-ing ot ·intl&matory than The G~nt>ral Died ut Dawn. \\\elcome Miss Bennett Tlte Bennett famrly ha:; given to the sci cen generously of it;;. mem- ber>l, but of late we have only been Sl'ei ng Joan, the mu:;t in~ en ue. B.irltat·d, the fathet. ha:, gone back to the stage, and Con><tance. the ~o.phi~tirate, has been on ind..te1·· minatp vacation which was the te- ·:uJt of difficultie::; which she had with het· studio on the :;ubject of >alary. Tradition has it that she at one ttme earned the highest salary ever· paid an actl'ess, $30,000 a week. She also has the reputation for being the shrewdest busine::;s wo- man of pictul'es, with a record for ·impregnable contracts. Hut at last she ha>l returned. Issue Editor ............ Hyman A. Enzer 'vVe me ::;trongly in 'favor of the present plan. Through its agencies strong class con- ciousnes~ is created, and the freshmen find themselves coming into contact with others whose interests and thoughts are the same or are on a common basis. Yet at the same The vehicle for the Bennett re- appearance was Everything Is 'Thunder, a rather mediocre Grau- mont-British film. Concerning the war, this film offered little but some flne acting by Osca1· Homolka and Miss Ben-nett in a ~.lut role which called for unintelligence intelligent- ly portrayed and ::>ome guod bit~ of photog-raphy. Perhap::; it is becau~e the shade of the Legion of Decency has cloyed the motion picture,; a bit that I welcome the return of the woman who be·fore the purge was kept busy pol'traying various ~hades of wickedness. But more it is because she brings back to the screen a type of acting which de- pends upon patterned· movement reminiscent of the silent days and which is peculiarly appropriate to the two dimensional medium of the screen. At any rate, Welcome! Miss Bennett. Current Fare W. Dean Assistants F. Ilequembourg- B. Rathbun time in the light of recent happenings we cannot fed other than disappointed with the conduct in the dorms or the management of them. Pigskin Parade <Twentieth Cen- tury-Fox: Pructor'::;J finds Its Ia· rale in a TPxa::1 college about the size of Union. but. which ceases to resemble any known college on earth with that. Fairly entertaining, though a completely false picture of college life. which may be fo1·· Friday, October 23, 1936 OPEN FORUM FOR COUNCIL The ;\lessrs, Bu1·ke whether or not they realized it, struck a tende1· spot of the Stu- dent Council, when they decried the general igno1·ance of the students al:Jout the inner workings of the Council. Not that the mem- bers wish to be secretive al.Jout the proceed- ings do they conduct their business in a closed body. Rather, we think, they do so to save their faces, and possibly future votes. It would seem only fair and just to those who entrusted them with their charge that the members of the Council reveal the whole pt·oceedings of meetings eithe1· by holding sessions in which the student-spectators may take a silent part, or publish accurate min- utes of all that transpires within. HALF-CENTURY OF RIVALRY In the fiftieth year of the spirited rivalry with Rensselaer Polytech, Union's football team will be out to uphold its traditional p1·estige. These contests have afforded many intensive battles. Though Union has throughout vaunted dominance over the given on the grounds of farce priv- ilege, the picture is only notable be· cause it introduces Judy Garland, a miss of about sixteen who puts a song over with all the vivacity in the world. And on the stage this week-end l was unable to sec anything very exciting-_ The thing is called Major 3owe::;' Band and brings back some of the best amateurs of the past year·. Each individual tu1·n is good, but the troupe need~ a better gen- eral routine bPfore it may be called big time. Engineers, it has been a natural rivalry, the II II sort that two colleges so close together are B 0 0 K S bound to have. And while at times antipa- thies have clouded ~elationships with each !.\===========;;;!.! Steps Going Down, by John T. other, the student bodies of both institutions Mcintyre: Farrar & Rinehart, 504 have always been able to work themselves PU:::~:.:n an entry list of more than into a lathet· of enthusiasm. The strongest five hundl'ed novels, Steps Going •t, h · · h Down was selected as the American way to descrrue t e nvalry IS to say t at contender for the All-Nations Prize whenever Union loses to R. P. I., the season Competition sponsored by Farrar & Rinehart, the Literary Guild, has been a failure. So good luck tomorrow Warner Brothers, and publishers in to all the teams that meet on Trojan ground. eleven foreign countries. John T. Mcintyre places his set- We expect you to bring back the customary ting in the Quaker City just in the laurels of victory. shadow of theatres, night clubs, and restaul'ants. Here are the large rooming houses with a host of And at Other- Colleges ..• Two hundred an·d ninety of HOBART'S tht·ee hundred and thirty students are enrolled in intra- mural competitions which will take place throughout the year. Besides athletic tournaments, inter-frater- nity song contests and debating matches have been ananged. * petty racketeers, choru::; girls, bur- lesque queens, and theatrical has- beens. Two of the main characters in the book are Pete and Gill, the lat- ter the son of a quack druggist and the former an ex-reporter. Both have the law ever at their heels. Gill is the more intelligent and it We are particularly partial to holding open sessions, for the reason that the Council pro- ceedings are first and last student interests, and they should not l:Je publicized for non- students to read. In Scotland, so our ex- change student informs us, the governing body of the university exchanges its views and legislates under the eyes of the students. It meets in a union to which the students may come. There matters are freely dis- cussed, and eve1·yone is conscious what pol- icy the individual members of the body hold. Here we grope in the dark. No one appears to know to what sides the val'ious council- men subscribe, for all acts of the Council are assumed to have collective responsibility, and everything that that responsibility implies. One out of every ten of the 5,600 students enrolled at PENNSYLVANIA STATE COLLEGE this fall has eamed part or ail of the money needed to finance hi~ or her college career. is he the amateur philosopher apathetic to his own decadent sphere, who gives us a perception of life. \Have you ever noticed that ther're two kinds of people,\ be says, \There's one that wants to live, a . sanguine person, with a clean liver and guts that empty themselves regularly. The other kind wants death; every act of their lives ~s a summoning of death. They llve under a jaundiced heaven; God has poisoned the world. Barrenness and sterility are matters of course, wine stinks the living gases which we see explod- ing at the top of this drink are filthy; a dish of spiced food sends them into agonies of revolt.\ Steps -Going Down is mainly concerned with these two kinds. However great an asset this may seem, in the light of a more significant fact it is min- imized. If the students could see their legis- latoi·s in action, debating issues and intro- ducing measures, they might think twice be- fore they elect men whose only assets are prominence and athletic ability. By the com- pulsion of satisfying their class constituency members of the Council would have to give evidence of being able to reason intelligently, and, in general, to exhibit the abilities of b All f1·eshrnen at RUSSELL SAGE are now required to enroll in special courses to improve conversation. Starting this year, the Troy college will instruct students in correct o;peec-h, dramatics, and proper articulation. A new series of weekly musie recitals, poetry readr ings, and art exhibits, to run throughout the school year has been inaugurated at MASSACHUSETTS STATE COLLEGE. The series is designed to reach all students rather than those interestea especially in one phase of art. * \Father Went To College\ a new book telling the story of the development of MIDDLEBURY as a small New Engl.,.td college, will be published next mont-h by a New York firm. The work is the first his- tory of the college ever written. It is in the matter of plot that Mr. Mcintyte fails. His plot is sim- ple, outworn, and lagging. But Mr. Mcintyre more than makes up for it with his skfllful character por- trayal, spirited dialogue, and rudi- mentary yet precise philosphy. J.J.B. The intellectual savage-the wall,ing epigram-a one volume edition of the Brittani<'a bound in the skin of roasted novelists. . ret\ Johnn-ie Hardtman, and .f'aul f'eat·e .... ask .bowie how he liked rllti bath ol\ \amber brew.\ .... !i.-any Linebaugh, Guy Graves and Uuke l:o en tun are ptenLy so1·e at LoUie VV·rtharn. Louie beat it horne 1ike 'ell ::latm·day night when it be- gan to appear a:l if the gang WtJie golllg ,o nave a listie encounte1. ... asK Hob Tanner how fie made out Sat urctay night at Hiley'\'· ... 1! you can t tina Hob, ask hi::; gal De.ty Clark <don't cry, betty) .... nomrnation tot' the ::>wellest guy r.tle· Larl'y Hennetisy·s dad .... A Groucho !Uarx moustaclle. M.outh thin and straight b.ut droopy at the corners-cleft chm. Nose thin .and pointed as though it had been caught in Bat·tlett's Familiar Quotations. l<~yes fiel'ce and penetrating-the woundP.d scholar. A quiclt frown, a reluc- tant smile. Hair dart{ red, li.l'e an old stair carpet. Ears lil'e the •·udders on the China Clipper - Pegasus about to take off. Masculine as is masculine - a Gru:gantuan stride. Looks forbid- ding and usually is. P1•obably can't carry a tune across .the street but will recite g:reat stretches of libretto when you want to hear it-also when you don't want to hear it. The p1·ofessional cynic - tlte ponde1•ous puuner-pompous as a newly installed bishoP-brittle as a wafer-sensitive as a Greek pillar-voice m,e Prometl1eus un- bowid-ltind as an old razor blade-gentle as a steam roller- a nice gul! T. A. Song for October H. A. L. left this on the of- fice deslt the other day, giving us permission to do whatever we }Jleased with it. It is a pleasure to reprint it here. Though written some weeks ago, it seems au admirable summation of the point of view of thP \Hoople-whoopers and The Cnncordiensis would like to recommend here that it be adopted as the campaign hymn of Hoople-for-Happiness. I'm a citizen with honorable in- tentions, I want to do my duty like a a man, But I'm totally exhausted by con- ventions And oratory coming from a can; am sick of politicians ener- getic, Not one of them could make me change my mind, So then, Doctor, just a shot of anaesthetic Or maybe two, if you will be ~o kind? CHORUS Pieatie don't waKe me up until November, can get along without the news, Let me go to sleep and not re- member, For I've got, I've got, I've got THOSE CAMPAIGN BLUES! am not, you understand, a duty-shirker, 1 labor for my country night and day, pan::;ies to the Secret Service r;u- reau !reputedly a gossip columnJ for giving the campus a hearty laugh, They, of all people, should talk about campus politics and \\deal::;.\' Une wit of the junior class said, \W-hat are the Alpha Delts worrying about? The exchange scholar, chail'rnan of tax committee, etc., are still administration ap· pomtment».\ ... and then there were the two mugs at the exchange dance Saturday night who took two mnocents down town to a dive and tried to get them d-r-a-u-n-lc . . . but no could do .... nice stutf. ... and then .there was the Skidmorite at the dance who just before the matching said to ller sisters, \I bet l get one with a moustache\- ·she did! ! .... it'll be tough if we Jose .t-'rexy to Lornell- -just when he~ got old Union amountin' to some- thin' again .... pansies to the claBs of '4Q-they've got more spirit than all the rest of the classes combined. . . . pansies -to Prof. Herrick, who congratulated them upon their spirit when his whole freshman English class houped in ten min- utes late and told him they had been holding a rally ... S-C-0-0-P: the Delta Chi'~ woke up Sunday I morning and found the door from ~mokey's can in their front parlo1. PERSONAL NOTE: Dear Edward <somewhere in New York) Come home. All is forgiven. The children need you. Mountebanks Executive ( ?J Committee. YOUR UNCLE WILLY declines to congratulate the Phi Beta Rappa upon its choice of the majority of its 11ew members. The only excuse for picking such a motley crew is their marl{s. Certainly they were not chosen for their charming per- sonalities. As for their activities, well, on the campus they are utter- ly insignificant. Granted that Phi Beta Rappa should be a society of the intelligent, your uncle Willy cannot believe that the men select- ed are the really intelligent men of their class. The! e is no more effec- tive way of discouraging scholar- ~hlp than the picking of such an unsavory pack of grinds for such a high honor as Phi Beta Kappa. W.W.M. --- --- 0•--- Note on Our Rival- But why should 1 listen while some party-worker Pursues a job for which I'll have to pay? At R. P. I. last week came out the following: \In harmony with the general tt·end of the country to hold straw votes of the national presidential election, the faculty, last Monday night, polled their choices for the next president at a meeting held in the Club House. Of the 104 mem- bers present, 62 voted for Governor Landon, the Republican candidate; 38 for President Roosevelt, Demo- cratic candidate, and 4 for Thomas, the Socialist candidate. Neither Lemke nor Browder, the other can- didates running for president re- ceived a vote.\ am fed-up with the lads who coax and wheedle In hopes of turning othei\ ms- cals out, So I beg you kindly, Doctot· - quick, the needle! So I'll not know what it is all about. CHORUS: Plea~e don't wake me up until November, etc. H. A. L. Fo X-Cou1 In for Hawkes l In Fi·rst) Fresl Between and fre::lhm \l't·oy tumo1 \' o~~\countr: their appear Kl-'.1. tt ack . ::nun of Un )l'ar-uld fm more en-han tL>ll!OITOW'o tac.e i:> the t !Jet ween the wati tit art t>ct Union has lt.P.I. two. A .500 UVE u<tu for a CI has had lu weather tlta( blush. Afte1 over Vermor. R.P.I. would especially as a decided un that Bill Hm the harriers, Saturday whE Engineer::>. U fairly easy concests by a tistics show his time com to break the cock, Giesltei R.P.I. These dead heat f• Williams-R.P time of 22 m: The fight be four should ::;hould be the Thr Frank Myet brothers will petition in t scholarship v ens the team Myers took fc Denton took f Vermont so t be seen. Bill Pntertains no urday's outcc feat unless ~ happens. Belo up for the fin 1 Hawkes, Annese, 5 Th< l'essi Coach Bill turned: to opti confident that country team victory of tl The yearling Nott Teuace indicated a g offing . .Santon have shown u the first three m tomorrow's Ketz will Troy: Santor: Fisher, Hoffm Lord. If Santora • with first plac disappointed. ' about the san m the Nott TE Hoffman, on the team, has ti.ce much th infected toe. V be able to run SINC Year PI: 1886 w. 1888 Tro~ 1889 HerE 1892 Tro~ 1892 HerE 1893 Tro~ 189-1 Tto~ 1895 HerE 1898 Tro~ 1899 HerE 1899 Troj 1900 HerE 1901 Tl'Oj 1901 Hen 1903 Tro~ 1904 Hen 1914 TrOj 1915 HerE 1916 Tl'O;)i 1917 HerE 1918 Tro} 1919 Her< 1924 Troj 1925 Hen 1926 Tro:, 1927 Hen 1928 Tro:, 1929 Hen 1930 TrO;)i 1931 HerE 1931 l Alba 1932 Troy 1933 HerE 1934 Tro;)i 1935 Hen Union has ' I. has won 5; ~ tied.

It must winnin' Anyway, printable herein Froelich with Mr. and about it. campu~; our star ... I ha<.l Delta :Phi ha1·d timu road ..• W'o1:<len shower of Bob Denz- and .f'aul he liked rew,\ .. and wre at at it horne it be- gang were encountet. he made .. sk ais gal .... eHest guy dad .... :tsu- p cotumnJ a heat·ty should litics and class pha Delts exchange ap- there took two and .. stulf. . . . ,. 1 the \I bet -she I we lose he ::; to some- 1· cla!:!s pirit than who on their freshman ten min- they had Sunday frona parlo1. York) The e <?) to Rappa of y excuse crew is were per- utter- Phi of Willy n select• of effec- scholar- such an such a out general d straw Monday for the held in 4 mem- overnor Demo· Neither can- ent re- m ::; m m ::: m m at m m me, fl ~~ ~H ::: i§i ::: ::: ~~~ ::: m :m::m!r THE CONOORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1936 Four Union Squads Face R .. P. I. Tomorrow . X-Country 1eams Union-R.P.I. Game In for Hard Grind Jubilee o-f-Series Away ~--- -~--- -~-------~------------------------------ Backfield Men Who Will Start Against R. P. l The Varsity Lineups Hawkes Union's Pace-Maker In Fi-rst Away Engag1ernent; Freshmen Fa. vored Between halve:> <Jf t·he var,ic:>· and freshman !ootba U games at, '!'roy tumonuw the .,v,.o Union! c•Otiti\Country ::,yuad~ will make' their appearance on tl\Ie unfamiHai 1•.1-'.L t1ack. T-he color -of -the occa· :>1un of Union's ·rev .• v,ng the 5()- J l'ar-uld football 1 ivu,Iry i:> still more enhantcd by the fact that toaw·rnnv'ti varshy C.:t-Os:>·cuuntrJ 1ace is the tweitth consecutive one het ween the t ••o -colle~e~. The sc1 ic, was start l'd in 1925, and· ::;ince then trn ian has won nine meets and H.P.I. two. (Continued from Page 1) ~tl'ipe and the goal-line, and it .is fervently hoped that they will be used. In scrimmage against tl:to · · n eshmen on W-ednesday, the va..r- sity played good but not excep· t·ional bal'l in defeating the yea.l'· nngs th1 ce toucl1aov. ns w one. 1 J:·•e short scrimmage was dominated by. varshy gains, chieliy on off-tack.le play~ and line cha1;ges, the one .uglllight on the part of the frosh uemg a !:!8-yard dash to a toucJh· uown by Sl-ippery Sam Ha.tnmer- stiom, who intercepted a -pass on nis own goal-line and twisted aact squilmed nis way all the way down tne gridiron, a1ded by excellen,_ otockmg down field. Always Away! Due to the scho!at·tihlp rule, d:..e, Gainet w11l have to do without th:e· ' decvlce:> ot Adaiilti and Chapin, tw u' unemen who will be 1 eplaced ·}) y · ·Angle, Riggs ·or Gatchell, whiL .JacK SmiU1 al:>o w'ill not be able for play, although it is hope-d: ______ ----~· ne may be in shape for the Wil- · .·. ···.·· WALLY HUGHES A .500 average i,; c et tainly nut u<tt.l for a c1 us:o-countr:y team that has had tu 1 un both its meets in weather that would Jnllke a duck blush. After Sat-urday's victory over Vermont, a second win over R.P.I. would certainly be welcome, especially as Union enters the race a decided unde1dog, It is cxpecteo that Bill Hawkes, rang::y captain 01 the haniers, will meet liis ·first test Saturday when he runs against the Engineers. Until now Bill has had fairly easy going, winning both concests by a good n:::tat·_gin, but sta- tistics show that he must improve his time considerably .if he intends to break the tape ahead of Hitch- cock, Giesker, Dugan, or Toole of R.P.l. These four finished in a dead heat for first p!iace in the Williams-R.P.I. meet: in the fast time of 22 minutes a.nd 32 seconds. The fight between Bill and these four should be in. ter esting ana should be the highligllt >Of the meet. Iiams game next week. However, u b t u • F h EJ With the exception of these thre-€ . n ea en lllOD . res man . even men the team will be at full. Q Ch Wh\ }i Three Ineligli»le Funk Myer~ and tne two Denton brothers will be ineligible for com- petition in the meet because of scholarship warnings. 'This weak- ens the team considerably. Frank Myers took fourth place and Ralph Denton took fifth last week against Vermont so their value can easily be seen. Bill Ketz, varsity coach, <'ntertains no illusions as to Sat- urday's outcome, predi<!Hng a de- feat unless something unforeseen happens. Below is the pt-obable line- up for the first five n:::ten.: 1 Hawkes, 2 Wells, 3 Sheffer, 4 Annese, 5 Thompson. Pessimist-01•-thnlst Coach Bill Ketz' pessimism has turned to optimism a.nd he >is quite confident that the fresl::lman cross- country team will record its second victory of the season tomorrow. The yearling victory over a strong Nott Te1 race outfit last Saturday indicated a good season is in the offing . .Santora, Fisher ,a.nd Johnson have shown up well and should be the first three men to ct·-<Jss ,fhe line m tomorrow's meet. Ketz will take eight men to Troy: Santora, Meewic:z, Johnson, Fisher, Hoffman, M.urray, Ross, and Lord. If Santora does not -come across with first place Ketz vvill be greatly disappointed. The othel'~ ·will run in about the same time th:at they did m the Nott Terrace meet. Hoffman, one of the tnainstays of the team, has not been a'hle to prac- tice much this week. Ee has an infected toe. Whether or 'not he will be able to run his best is a mystery. ---0--- SINCE 18B6- Year Place u. R.P.I. 1886 W. Troy 0 1888 Troy 5 1889 Here 10 0 1892 Troy 4 0 1892 Here 20 4 1893 Troy 10 6 189-1 T1oy 37 0 1895 Here 26 0 1898 Troy 22 0 1899 Here 5 6 1899 Troy ,6 0 1900 Here 5 0 1901 Troy 17 0 1901 Here 18 0 1903 Troy 12 11 1904 Here 21 0 1914 Troy 2·1 0 1915 Here 7 0 1916 Troy 45 0 1917 Here 19 3 1918 Troy 6 13 1919 Here 0 0 1924 Troy 7 7 1925 Here 40 0 1926 Troy 21 6 1927 Here 21 3 1928 Troy 6 14 1929 Here 7 2 1930 Troy ·0 0 1931 Here 21 0 1931 1 Albany .7 2 1932 Troy 13 0 1933 Here 0 16 1934 Troy 18 6 1935 Here 20 0 Union has won 26 ganes; R. P. I. has won 5i and three-games were tied. stlength, with the players in the pposes erry.. . Ite year ·ngs bhest shape they have been in since ___ <e>-------------- ____ _ t e opening encounter. Ray Lewi:s: and Jim Mulcare will again be Olll Coach Art Lawrence's smartly the wings, Ladue and Angle 0 drilled freshman football team Van Ladd at tackles, Potts meets the yearlings of R.P.I. in the .ttigg:o at guards and second game on its four-game Campbell at center, Barton schedule (the 13econd game at Glov- the nod. The backfield will Ersville was rained out) at twelve the veteran qua 1 ·tet of Amazolll, o'clock at Troy tomonow. The B1 own, Thomas and Dennett, wit:E:! game is being played as a prelimi- Haskell, Jim Smith, and Hughes nary to the varsity encounter. replacements. In line for call t<> Last year Billy Thomas took per- line duty will be Baker, Farr, and· charge of the downtrodden Gatchell. hopes of the frosh and conducted a one-man track meet aided and abet- In sizing up the situation as it ted by the strong right arm of Bob stands fot· the \ft=stiva1\, we may· Terhune. That game the Garnets give neither team any .advantage,' won, with Thomas accounting for although R.P.I. with its eleven let- every single point, 21-0. This year tetmen seems to have the better Art Lawrence has found worthy reserves. Th teams staclt up very to Thomas and Terhune evenly acc01 ding to weight and his two threat backs, Sammy height and number of men on the Hammerstrom and Merlin Bvock- squads and the only edge seems to meyer. Hammerstrom, a tall, be the fact that the Trojans will be square-jawed 177-pound quarter- the home team and will conse- baclt, is probably the best football quenly turn out more rooters both in numbers an.d in enthusiasm_ player to be lured into Union for a Long time. He runs ltke a deer, in- A considerable delegation fron:J. ~erferes like: a mother-in-law, passes Schenectady is planning to make punts with exemplary skill, and the trJp, however, and it is hopeci is a paragon of defensive might. that it will make at least as mucb. He usually operates as the deep noise as did the few who came over- man in the Lawrence offensive for- here from Troy last year. Remem- mations. His running mate, Brock- her? meyer, is a solidly built boy who ----o--- can punt almost as well as Ham- A. Decade of X-Country Year 1925 1926 1927 1928 1929 1930 1931 1932 1933 1934 1935 Union 24 25 21 25 34 21 23 15 15 22 2S R.P.I. 31 30 34 30 21 34 32 40 40 33 27 Union has won 9, R.P.I. 2. merstrom, and who plunges and up the line. From this it should not be assumed that Law- l'ence has been working with a two- man squad. The remaining backs, Fred Patrie, Marv Rosen, Chuck Passe, and Jack Quinlan are more r INTRAMURAL$ -II Alpha p,hi Delts Win Touch Football C1•own The Alpha Phi Delta touch football ---0--- .nine took the Intl,ammal Cup yes- WPA Sponsors Student Plays tErday afternoon when it defeated the Phi Gamma Delta squad by the . Slcore of 6-0. In a game filled with Intermittent attempts to encour- thrilling and spectacular plays, the age latent talent among the under- o-ff-campus terun completed a very graduate playwrights of .A:merica fine season. Their only defeat came are to be crystalized into a nation- a.t the hands of the Fijis on the wide campaign during the coming . J>revious afternoon. Both nines dis- year, it was announced this week p-layed great defensive strength. by Francis Bosworth, director of '['wice the Phi Gams held for th1 ee the WPA Fedei'al 'I'heatre Project's d.owns within their own two-yard play bureau. line, and their opponents inter- cEpted a number of their passes. The WPA Fedet·a! Theatre will In the dosing minutes of the offer to thousands of high school ·fi.rst half the P.hi Delts worked the and college students the opportun- ball dQWll to the one-yard line, and ity of seeing their plays in produc- on the last down they completed a tion. These plays will not be bought short pass for the only score of the by the WPA, but merely rented g-ame. Albout midway in the last from the author for 50 dollars a h.alf the boys from off-campuS> com- week for every individual produc- J)1eted a long .pass to allout the tion of an accepted play. ten-yard marker, 1but a stellar A play based on Sinclair Lewis' tackle by a Fiji defense man pre- Nobel Prize winner, \It Can't Hap· another score. than adequate. They handle the ball well and are fast off their marks . The burly but genial aLwrence has been stressing this last point, and the results have been easy to see, In scrimmage against the var- sity they have unfurled forward laterals, and .double and triple re- verses with remarkable poise and confidence. The line is undersized as fresh- men Jines go, but suffers no loss of effectivenes£ from the lack of beef. Bob King, one of the ends, will be a noncombatant Saturday. The same is true of Fred Patrie, who played two years ago on the fresh- man tea~m, and liked it so well that he came back for another dose. They will be replaced by Bill Nu- gent and dependable Marv Rosen. In the event that Passe's ankle does not come around by Saturday, Quinlan will be the fourth man in the backfield. The line will have Nugent and Bill Busino at end,. Johnny Krull and August Kluge at tackle, Lou Kramer and Bill Lynn at guard, and Fred Burns at centre. Nevius is a possible replacement at end, and Halavin, the heaviest man on the squad at 205, is a reserve tackle. Nothing is known about the strength or record of the Cherry team except for the fact that no matter how strong they are, Union will be stronger. AMERICAN Al LAUNDRY The Most Earfect Laundry Work in the Capitol Diltrict Phone 4~3H!6 1030 Barrett St. QUALITY SHOE REPAIRING Reasonably Priced Phone 4-7711 THE WALLACE OOMPANY BASEMENT HODAKS RADIOS, FOUNTAIN PENS Expert Repail'ing J. T. & D. B. LYON \Everything Pllotographic\ 236 State St. Phone: 4-8647 pen Here\ will be the first produc- , The fast-moving running attack tion in 15 WPA theatres starting and the accurate 'blocking of thP. on October 27. · P-hi Gams, which played such an ., -----o--- important part in their win on the U ·C'C.A Plans W\'-l'lr WI'th ASU· previous day, was visibly lacking ~ v ~ resterday. On the other hand, the winners charged fast and ha1•d and .played a very fine g·ame. Wednesday, Oct, U.-A proposal Tennis Notice to work jointly with the Union The third round of the Fall Ten- Chapter of the American Student n.is Tournament must be completed Union on a local boy's club project on o1· befo:·e Wednesday, Octo·ber was made tonight at the meeting 28. of the Union College Christian As- Football Field Meet sociation. The project, if adopted, The rules for the Football Field CCONNELLY ,B-ROTHERS DAIRY. Inc. 1858 H;AMBURG STREET PHONE 2·091'0 wi11 involve the cooperation of . Meet az·e in the respective intra- Rockwell Jenkins, who is already rnurals boxes, Entries must be in active in this work, and the forma- 5 p, m., Wednesday, octo·ber tion of a separate college unit for 27. Enter only those who are actu- the welfare of local boys of limited 1 ja~l~ly~~g~o~in~g~t~o~c~o~m~p~e~te~.;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ . privileges. Other business discussed by the association was an attempt to aid the cheer-leadei's in pt•oducing a better spirit at football .games. The organization also plans to hold a series of musicales this winter, Secretary Leslie Paffrath reported on the recent YMCA Conference held in Nor.thfield, . Mass. LOUIS WASSERMAN 9UALITY MEAT MARKET 354 Broadway BILL THOMAS ... REMINGTON The Pe1•fect Portable 7 Models-$37 .50 and Up Terms, lOc a day Bob's Bookshop-135 B'w\y FREE • • • Pos. R.P.I. Union RT Marichich !80) *Riggs RE *Fink Cl) Lewis RG •Richardson \'72J *Potts c 'Baumann ( 88J *Barton LG *Smith < 22J •van Ladd LT Warwich !68) Ladue LE Gi!coyne <89J Mulcare QB ''Gavetti ( 7J Amazon HB •vvard ('3) Hughes HB ''Stewart < 21 J Thomas FE *Andrews !2) *Brown ' Indicates lettermen. -·----0 R.P.I. Ticket SalE The ticket s2!le for the R.P.L- Union football game will close to- morrow morning. Tickets may be plucuteu from J. Hal Wittner, ath- letic dil ector, at the gym. Ail seats are resezved, and none Vl.i!l be sold .1e1·e after 10 a. m. ~-----------------------, I Goi11g toR. P. 1.? Take I 1 Your Camera With You- 1 1 Pictures Printed, Developed, 1 1 Delivered-24 HQur Senice 1 I I I Leave Your Photcgraphs I I itt Green Box in !llco'l!e I I of Silliman Hall 1 I I l_~::~.:~~~:~:_::~j Haircut and shave to the Union player making the first touchdown against R. p. I. The Acme Barber 509 Union St. SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING COMPANY ENGRAVERS for THE CONCORDIENSIS 147 JAY STREET TELEPHONE 4·9002 ANNOUNCING THE OPENING OF • THE CLUB PETITE HOTEL MOHAWK • THE MOST ROMANTIC NIGHT CLUB iN THE CAPITOL DISTRICT FEATURING MY R 0 N CARR and His N-B-C ORCHESTRA under direction of DAL BRYSO·N WOR FEATURE ARTIST Coming STALEY SMITH \musical comedy star''

i 'I Four ;;;; Hooplites' Growth Menace to Politics Ct·eed of \America Must Trot\ Spreads Rapidly to Other Schools <Continued from Page 1) paign lapel buttons, they placed Major Hoople's visage (torn out of local newspapers) under cellophane using any of the major party but~ tons for support. So popular, how- ever, have the \Hoople-whoopers\ become that the hand-made buttons have become too costly. The party officers are therefore making up official buttons on which will be >~tamped a genial figure in a rock- ing chair. In their campaign song, the Hooplite$ whoop about \everything will be cheaper, cigars longer, cheese stronger\ and urge all not to worry about the thirty million dollars already spent, fot· no matter who is elected, he will spend a \trill ion.\ The formation of the Hoople-for- Happiness party took place after Hartman and other students seriously interested in learning the principles of the present campaign, attended meeting:o of all the pat- ties. \We discovered, to our keen dis- appointment, that there was ac- tually little difference in the meth- ods of pet·suasiun used by either the Democrats or Republicans, both of whom ino>ultingly assume the .American voter is a moron and unable to think for himself,\ said Bundgus. We realized that the voters were too tense with the struggle for exis- tence to appreciate fully the tre- mendous responsibility that is theirs, if we are to continue to have a democratic form of government. So we students decided we would tJ·y to make them- and e::;pecially the old line party leaders~aware that hoopla and bally-hoo no longer are effective in persuading the younger, thinking generation which is becoming i·nct·easingly active politically as it realizes that it is alz·eady debited with the costs not of past wars ,the depression, but al.so of the present mh;takes of those in power.\ ----0-~---~ R.eev es Sees Increasing Interest In Philomathean Wednesday, October 21. -Debat- ing, ao> the oldest extra-curricular activity at Union College. founded around 1790, \in fact, before the college ito>elf,\' was discussed today at daily Ch<,ipel by Cha rleo> H. Reeves. '37. president of the Philo- mathean Society, and recent r eci- pien t of Phi B!'ta Kappa honors \Debating ha~ becomP <uper fl- ri a\,\ Reeve~ stated \T'he student~ :lt'e n•1t at 1111 intere\t\rl in the ~ub­ ject matter: they just fo<'u< theil attention on the pr<'\<>ntation of \tTongPr points for thPit· <idP Through thp PntPr:·Rinillr: \tudy of the topic with the debaters. Joeeph Rotunda. of thP Po!IPge fnrulty, hopes to eliminate this evil.\ More than 30 stud.-nts. the larg· est number that hP or Frederick Watt, former counselor in dPbate. C<>Uid remember, attended the first meeting of the Philomathean Soci· ety two weeks ago. Reeves ex- pt eso,;ed the beitef that this was a V!!ty encouragmg sign of a suc- c .. ssful season and of Increased in- m terest, the opposite of what caused the dissolution of the only other debating club in 1925. -- -0 - Dr. Blacl\ of ;\loniclair To Preach Here Sunday Dr. Archibald Elack, Minister of the l<,irst Congregational Church of Montclair, N. J., will speak at the chapel services Sunday rnm ning. The public is invited to attend these seniceo>, Which are broadcast by ~tat'on WGY. Born !ll Ro: hC'say, lolt• ,,f But e. Scotland, Dr. Black received hb early tt·aining there and was grad- u:t ted from Glasgow Univet oity in 1906. After a year at tht l:nlted Free College there. he was called to the United States, entering the yn,ion Theological Seminary, qual- tfymg rt.s n Bachelor of Divinity. Lii'Pnsed in 1909 r n 1909 he was licensed to pt each by the New York Prc~bytel'y, and W>H <'1llerl t\ be minbtct wf tl.e BPdford Pnr·k. Pre•bytcrian Chutch, I NPw York f'tty, when he scrn:d frw fivP yPor\ In l'l13 he cr.tcted I the Congr·egational denomination I as the mini\!Pr of the South Con gregational Church in Concord, N. H., serving there until 1919, when he became associate to Dr. George A. Gordon in the Old South Church Boston. Since 1921 he has been at the Montclair Church, occupying the pulpit made famous by Dr. Amory H. Bradford. ~ -- o~~ TeJTace Council Meeting '!'!Jere will be a meeting of the Terrace Council in Silliman Hall at 7 :80 Monday night. THE CONOORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1936 Associate Editors Announced Newrnan Club Organized Tuesday, Oct. 20. - Twenty-six A:muciate Editors of the 1938 Gar-. By 60 Catholic Students net announced today by Donald· Tuesday, October 20.---Sixty Cath- Fot d, '38, Editor-in-Chief were list- olic students of the college 1 egis- ed as follows: Francis Agostini, Ed-. tered this afternoon at the organi· ward J. Barry, Thomas ·H. Blais- zation meeting of the Union Col- dell, Jack C. Bowie, Joseph R. Ca-. lege Newman Club. Rev. John J .. fatella, Armand Cammarotta, An- Collins and Rev. John J. Finn were thony Canale, Robert C. Denzler,. in charge of the meeting. Geotge E. Doyle, Edson V. S. 'l'he purpo;,3e of the club, as ex- Draper, Samuel Farr, Arthur S. pla·ined by Rev. Collins, is to \fos- Grant jr., Severyn Hasbrouck Fred- ter the religious, intellectual, and el'ick B. Hawley Jr., Stanley Kollin .social life of the Catholic students William L. Ladue, Arthur B. Law~ of the college.\ renee Jr., Charles McCarthy, Joseph During the meeting, two nomi- Paul, Theodore Podbielski; Howard nating committees wer·e chesen to E. Sands, George T. Scott, Alfred select two separate slates of off1- Seigle, Hobert Shepar·d, and Jerome cets for the club, and another corn- Y. Smith. mittee appointed to draw up plans for the arrangement and conduct . ef meeting. It was decided to have the next meeting, a smoker, on Tuesday, October 27. The place and 0 Union Alumni Promoted Rev. William Landreth Bailey, Union graduate, and a resident of Schenectady, has been appointed a:o~io>tant to the Rev. Edward R. Welles, new dean of the Cathedral of All Saints in Albany. He began his duties Sunday, October 4. After his graduation from Union, Rev. Bailey entered the General Theo- logical Seminary in New Yorlt City. Freshmen! Get Your Flannel Nighties Out lor the Williams Game! CHARLES' (formet•ly Ed's) The offi<'ial Union College baz·- ber f ()!\ the pa.st 26 yeru's. Asli any U])perclassmen, they know. Four operators. Schenectady's greatest barber. Cor. :STATE and B'WAY CALENDAR Tonight 8:30 P- m.--Unity Seciety Lec- tUJ'e, Speaker, H. Laurence Achilles, Memorial Chapel. Tomorrow 2:00 p. m.-Football, Mohawk School vs. Utica Country Day School, Alexander Field. Sunday 11:00 a.m.--Sunday Chapel Ser- vice, Preacher, Dr, .Archibald Blach, Montclair Congrega- tional Church, Montclair, N. J., Memol'ial Chapel. 4:00 p. m.-Grgan Recital, Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, Memorial Chapel. Monday 10:00 a. m.--Student Body Meet- ing, Old Chapel. 7:30 p. m.--Philomathean Soc>i- ety Meeting, Old Chapel. Tuesday 10:00 a. m.-- Daily Assembly, Speaker, W. Gibson Carey, Jr. '18, Memorial Chapel. 1.00 .p. m.- Glee Club Rehearsals ! Tenors), Washburn Hall. 4:00 p. m.-Class in Journalism, Silliman Hall. DE WITT'S LUNCH a.nd TAP ROOM Home Cooked Foods I:<~njoy Our Fine Beverages 118 JAY ST. Opposite City Hall Storrs M. Bishop, Jr., '26, of Schenectady has been recently ap- pointed manager of the Hudson District of the New York Power and Light Corporation. ~k. Bishop ::>er ved in the Schenectady district from 1926 and 1929, when ·he was placed in charge of the company store room. In 1930 he was trans- ferred to Glen,;; Falls as a power salesman until hi:; appointment to l the managership of the Port Henry Di:;trict in 1933, which he held until his latest pmmotion. PINE GROVE DAIRY, lncm 118 S. FERRY ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. • Opportunities Unlimited, of the loc~l chapter said. \Every man owes something to his com- Says Bantham in Chapel munity. · \A Chamber of Commerce is an Thursday, October 22.~\There is organization of individuals banded no limit to the opportunities for together to ·do those things civically sincere men, after they are grad· for thetr C<>mmunity .that they uated hom college, to serve as . would not ·be able to do otherwise. 1 leaders in their community!' de- Civic WOII~ h.as a long and hol:).or- cla::ed Albert P. Bantham, '24, pres• :able his~or:y connected with it, dat- ent manager of the Troy Chambet· ing ·back t<J the fifteenth century. of Commerce, today. '\l'hrough the years; .commerce Speaking at daily chapel, Mr. clubs have become non-.profitahle, Bantham stressed the fact that claiming rnecrchants, manufactur- t he1·e are contacts of real economic· ers, bankers and professional men, value in civic work, with a chance of all creeds and religions, as mem- to acquire a broader prospective bers. They .have evolved inte diver- on life. \If a person follows this. sifted groll.ps supported by people line of work with the thought of who have enlightened selfishness, benefiting himself, he will be sorely that if the community prospers, disappointed,\ ·the former secretary they presper.\ GUERRA PHARMACY oOO Union St., c:or. Barrett Phone 2-9419 GAZETTE PRiESS PRINTING • :. -ItS a Liqht Smoke! A CLEAR VOICE -A Light Smoke Whether you sing in the parlor-or just hum In your morning tub, be kind to your throat. A clear voice, ~light ~~they go to- gether. Guard those delicate membranes. Select !! light ~-a Lucky. OF R~CH, In Harmony with Your Throat More marvelous than any invention is the \music box\ inside your throat. But so delicate . . . with its maze of membranes! No wonder so many stars of the movies and radio say that for them a light smoke is the right smoke. Luckies are a light smoke of rich, ripe-bodied tobacco. Luckies hit the right note with your taste! The only cigarette with the tender center leaves of the highest-priced tobacco plus the all-important throat pror:ecrion of the \Toasting\ process. Remember-tile only cigarette. So reach for a Lucky and be kind t() your thtoat! * * NEWS FLASII! * * 205 Guests at Ritz Carlton in Atlantic City Play 11 SweeFsfakes\l People on vacation play- the \Sweepstakes too. In one week alone 2.05 guests at the fashionable Ritz Carlton in .Adantic City remembered to send i11 their entries for Your Lucky Strike \Sweepstakes.\ We say that's combining fun witl1 fun! Have you enteted yet? Have you won your delidousLuckyStcikes?There's music on the air. Tune in \Y ~tu: Hit Parade\- ~ednesday and Saturday evenings. Listen, JUdge, and compare the tunes-then try Your Lucky Strike \Sweepstakes.\ An.d if you're not already smoking Luckies, buy a pack today and try them. May~e you've been mlss.ing something. You 11 appreciate the ~dvantages of Luc~ies -a Light Sme»ke of r.ich, ripe· bod1ed tobacco. Terr Cou Elec:i Vol. LX., 1 Hoopb Sprea, To01 Comic Ca1 Into In1 At ~ Begh Local Cam Address Ralli1 Beginning adding to it£ the Hoople-f< the campus movements f were also re tion. Meanw was preparin cal rallies, ca disseminatior Student Bod yesterday. At State 0 Albany the swing, accor' the State Cc sponsoring t State College the ticket the another of .A vice-presiden1 debate betwe1 seniors Frida' year class br( a climax wit principles of singing of a ~ piness,\ to Lucia.\ Hooplites a the Outing C: with pleasurt buttons and Vassar girls , the weekend Other mem busy spreadil among frienc IIere at U1 al a high le' literature ha£ and buttons neighboring House, the ir ment has ma1 menu. Mond Handwich\ aJ: fare, followec \Hoople Pud1 Mr. Frederi ant professor to act as fa group. The f· charter men: Club on the mann, Juliu: Agostini, Hl Johnson, He George Hasw Walling, Ed! Svedarckas, ; Ralph Cohen, '39, and Paul To Hal AndLi: By FER I know tht oughly tired position and azines. But publination 1 though it mi~ let the polic: issue. Anywa ConcordiensiE The Idol, magazines, is may sail awa all earthly t existence in : nated by jUI erary and ae! what happen! minded peopl deavor to ex: issue become: pers and soul On the other lege Humor hackneyed h garity. We tl ground. Wed ourselves fro of Union Col Y.,•and dwel ~ating dead 1 fleet 'Union 0 humc\r,' not s wisecrack, ar nlng away ar ary charactl

\Every o his com- is an banded civically .that they otherwise. a-nd honor- it, dat- century . . commerce men, as mem- inte diver- by people selfishness, prOSperS, 1' I I ,. ! 2-9419 I I • with stars the a ceo * tthe City say try em. of ipe· :. Terrace .. .. Hoople Council t StS Doctrine Elections Spreads Vol. LX., No. 11 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1936 PRICE FIVE CENTS Hoople Doctrine Spreads Rapidly To Other CoUeges Comic Candidate Introduced Into Intramural Debate At State College Begin Final Drive Local Camp Plans Campaign Addresses and Political Rallies This Week Beginning its final drive toward adding to its ranks of .suppor·ters, the Hoople-for-Happiness party on the campus found that similar movements at neighboring schools were also receiving wide recogni· tion. Meanwhile the local camp was preparing for a week of politi- cal rallies, campaign add~esses, and dissemination of literature, as the Student Body voted its support yesterday. At State College for Teachers in Albany the movement is in full swing, according to reports from the State College News, which is sponsoring the party there. The State College group has added to the ticket the name of Judge Puffle, another of Ahern's characters, for vice-president. At an Intramural debate between the sophomores and seniors Friday morning, th.e second- year class brought the discussion to a climax with the mention of the principles of Major Hoople and the singing of a song, \Hoople for Hap- piness,\ to the tune of \Santa Lucia.\ Hooplites among the members of the Outing Club combined business with pleasure as they distributed buttons and literatu1·e among the Vassar girls with whom tbey spent the weekend in the Catskills. Other members of the party are busy spreading the Hoople gospel among friends in many .colleges. New Campaign Litera.tare Here at Union feeling remained al a high level. Already campaign literature has been mimeographed and buttons prepared to send to neighbo!'ing institutions. .At Hale House, the influence of the move- ment has made itself evident in the menu. Monday noon, a \Hoople :;andwich\ appeared on the bill of fare, followed in the evening by a \Hoople Pudding.\ Mr. Frederick L. Bronner, assist- ant professor of history, has agreed to act as faculty advisor to the group. The following are listed as charter members of the Hoople Club on the campus: Henry Hart- mann, Julius Bundgus, Francis Agostini, Hyman Enzer, Elmer Johnson, Horace Holbrook, and George Haswell, all of '3S; Pon.ald Walling, Edgar Guillot, Anthony Svedarckas, John Karuzas, and S. Ralph Cohen, '37; Robert Simmons, '39, and Paul Howe, '40. To Speak Satm·day N orm.an Thomas, Socialist candi· date for President who will be pres- ent in the Erie Theatre Friday night to speak at a public meeting, has accepted the invitation of the Union College chapter of the Amer- ican Student Union to speak on the daily assembly program Saturday morning. Cooperative Group Gets Price Lists Marked Reduction in Food Costs Seen as Result of Mass Buying Monday, October 26.- According to bids thus far received from local merchants, a marked saving in the price of supplies purchased by fra- ternities through cooperative buy- ing can be effected, Robert Everest, chairman of the fraternity steward committee investigating the possi- bility of establishing a cooperative organization at Union, announced this morning. \To date the bids received have offered an average reduction of about 6%,\ Mr. Everest said. Approximately fifteen dealers have not as yet submitted esti- mates. It is expected that the bids from these firms will be received before next Monday, at which time the committee plans to hold a meet- ing for a review of prices govern- ing the buying. To have all fraternities purchase their supplies from cooperative dealers is the ultimate hope of the committee. It is said that this ac- tion would cause even greater re- ductions in prices. To Have Quarterly Both Humorous And Literary is \Idol\ Editor's Aim ~·------------------------------- By FERDINAND HELM I know that everybody is thor- dissections of defunct literary oughly tired of remarks a..bout the movements and senile social issues. position and value of college mag- The Idol wants to prove that azines. But I suppose th.at every there are students at Union who publi<Jation must state a policy are aware of their environment though it might prefer to wait and and intelligently articulate aibout it. let the policy be obvious in each Perhaps we are expecting too much. issue. Anyway, Que can refuse the That is our policy. Concordiensis nothing. The Idol, like so many college The Idol board will be more than magazines, is between two fires. It glad to receive contributions. That may sail away from the earth and is o•bvious. All we ask is, at any aU earthly things to eke out its rate, semi-literacy. Comment and ex.lstence in a void vaguely illumi- flrtion dealing with anything that nated by jumbled galaxies of lit- goes to malie up the life of college erary and aesthetic IDEAS. This is students and college faculties. The what happens when a few literary- college .magazine ha~ a fleld natur- minded peo·ple get together and en- ally its own, which the \Idol\ has de~vor to express themselves. The heretofore neglected. We want issue becomes a mess of term pa.o verse that· is unacademic in tone. pers and so'ul searching symbolism. As for term papers, well, the term On the other hand, it may go Col- paper we have always with us. If a lege Humor and involve itself in paper represents scholarly research hackneyed humor and cbeap vul- well done it belong-s in the Idol. If garity. we think there is a middle it is just a rehash of a course in ground. We do not intend to detach seventeenth century poetry or nine- ourselves from the very real life teenth century politics it does not. of Union Coliege, Schenectady, N. The Idol will be as attractive as Y.,• and dwell in the ethereal imi- its finances will permit, and, we tating dead poets. We wa.nt to re- promise, as readable as is consis- flect Union College with sanity and tent with decency and only as humc\r,' n-ot stooping to gossip and sericus as the students of Union wisecrack, and by no means spin- College, which .gives it a wide lee- ning away among sonnets. on liter- ·way. We of the Board now publicly ary characters and dea.dly dull wish ourselves good luck. Speakers' Bureau Enrolls Fourteen ·Students Listed For Varied Topics A variety of subjects, featuring' everything from college life to land- on an interpretation of the poetry SJcape painting and musicals, are of the modernists. William W. Mul- covered by speakers of Union Col-. vey talks on the \Rebirth of The lege's new Student Speakers' Bu-· Drama.\ reau, founded again after' a lapse c. Warren Gammons, Jr., ex- of one year. plains his hQibby of gliding and ' Robert Everest speaking on fra-· ·soaring. He has attended the an- ternities and college Hfe, George P.: nual National Glider meet at E,I- Haskell on Scotland and· her uni- mira for the last five years. William versities, and Donald Walling on, R. Murray discusses the value of vocational guidance are some of. playgrounds with an exhibit on the subjects available. ' work done by children. John B. Rush Faville speaks on child' Dowling speaks in defense of the psychology, while Leslie Paffrath cinema as a form of art. has as his topic \Christianity in· An entertainment of a strictly Current Affairs.\ Favllle is a psy- classical nature Is given in the form chology major, while Paffrath of a musical with Tony Sharpe, gleaned his experience while doing pianist, and Fred M. Alexander, m~ssionary work among the moun- baritone. They will cater to club tam. people of southei n Pennsyl- fashion shows, dinners, and infor- vama. mal gatherings. In the field of a1 t, the Bureau The Student Speakers' Bureau Terrace Council Head WILLIAM IC POTTS offers John C. Davis, whose subject caters to all organizations who \\ish concerns American landscape speakers to give talks and illus- painters, and the influence of Edna ttated lectures on in£eresting en- St. Vincent Millay and Sara Teas- tertaining topics_ The st~dent dale. Ferdinand Helm, J,r., speaks speaker receives a fee plus his on the history of the theatre, and transportation expenses. Garis Announces Happiness Is Inner Curriculum Change Foreigners, Native Sons Equal in Frosh Survey Further evidence of the cos- mopolitan aspect of Unic>n Col- lege was brought out this week in a survey made in one of Mr. Frank Mannheim's fresh- man social studies classes con- cerning the number of students' grandparents who were born in foreign countries. It was discovered in the poll that 22 students had all but one of their grandparents who were born in America and that 22 others had all but one of their grandparents who were born in foreign countries. Ten others were of the mid- dle group, having two grand- parents who were born in .Am- erica and two who were born in a foreign country. The statiBtics are as follows: All grandp11.rents born in America ......... 15 All but one grandparent born in America . . . .. .. . . 7 Two grandparents born in America. .......... 10 All but one grandparent born in America . . . . . . . . . . 5 All grandparents born in foreign countries .. 17 ---0,--- Enrollment Rises In Nation's Colleges Content Says Black Montclair Preacher For Self-Analysis Sermon Here Pleads in Sunday, Oct. 25.-\Real happi- ness is not that which Is on the outside, but is really an inner satis- faction,\ declared Dr. Archibald Black, minister of the First Om- gregational Church of Montclair, N. J ., In his sermon in the Memorial Chapel this morning. \One cannot always be happy with things. To be happy a man must be ruble to look himself in the face in the dark and be unashamed.\ Dr. Black said that the pure in heart, who are generally thought of as straight, ministerial, and un- yielding, need not necessarily be austere and unbending. When Jesus said \Blessed is the man w.ho is pure in heart\ he meant it not only in the sense of other-worldliness, but practically as well as literally. rt means we should be pure above good: clean in body and spirit. Happiness is not something to be gained, pointed out Dr. Black. It either is or it is not. How can any- one expect to be happy if he Is ashamed to face himself? How can government ·be happy when it is underhanded? How can business be for the good of all when it is un- Larg-e Gains in Registt·ation clean, shoddy, and unfair? There is probably nothing in this Indicate Return of world that is cheating us of so Prosperity much as is social and national im- purity. Not until we clean the dirty windows to see the view or the dirty minds to see the visions, shall wP be able to see beauty and truth and God. New Ruling of Chief Benefit To Students in Modern Language Division An important extension of the ed· ucational policy of adapting the curriculum to the student has been made this year at Union College, it war. announced by Dean Charles F. Garis today. Students in the divi- sion of literature, especially those taking courses in the field of modern languages, have particularly bene- fited from the new ruling, which permits the chairman of a field to switch a student at any time during the year to a course for which he Is best fitted, without any loss of credit or standing in his class. Upon entrance to college, students in the modern languages are as· signed courses on the basis of work done in p1epa1atory school, but should the iruslr uctor Lll.::lcover that the student is not qualified to con· tinue in such a couJse, he may bt rea.::;signed by the chahman of the field to a more elementary course, 01 in exceptional ca::>e.:;, tu a n101 e advanced course in the same field. The requirement that a student pre· paring for the A.B. and B.S. de· grees take two years of modern languagJ still remains. The new ruling will remedy what Dean Garis called an \intolerable situation\ that existed in the past. Frequently student.s who have had two or three yeats of a language in preparatory school found it im- possible to continue in the advanced work for which he was theoretically quali;fled. Such students were not permitted to take a mo1 e elementary course, and, therefore, frequently continued to fail their cou1se until they were unable to graduate. New York, N. Y.-Perhaps it is too early to say that prosperity is back again, but judging from the large gains in enrollment in most of the universities and colleges throughout the country It is well on the comeback road. A recent survey of 80 scbools in the east, west, and south showed an increase of 18,072-6 per cent. Not one of the 26 institutions in \Sang For Fun\ Says Tibbett Who Appears in Civic Concert Tomorrow central and Western United States With the presentation tomorrow chosen at random lost in attend- evening of Lawrence Tibbett of the ance. On the contrary, these col- Metropolitan Opera Company, the leges and universities, collectively, Schenectady Civic Music Associa- showed an increase of 8.2 per cent. tion opens the course of a promis- Three-quarters of these schools ing winter season and brings to have chalked up the largest reg- this city an artist of world repute. istrations in their history. Arriving in New York City from The 14 southern schools in the ·California fourteen years ago to tabulation, too, showed a sharp up- \see what the hell\ and taking a ward rise-· also 8.2 per cent. Only random-mad chance against ob- two of the colleges in the group, scurity, there was little glamour University of West Virginia and about that same figure now so fa- Randolph-Macon, reported slight miliar to opera, cinema and radio tape rings in attendance. audiences. Now, ranked as .Amer- Eastern college~ and universities lea's most popular dramatic bari- presumably because of liinited en- tone, Lawrence Tibbett recallB rollments in many, did not exhibit those days lightly, dismissing such a marked upward trend. The thought of them with an assurance 3.4 per cent rise, however, is not tqat he \got the breaks •.. was without significance. Of the 41 lucky.\ He'll tell you, \Honestly I eastern schools, only six slumped . can't remember when I :tlrst began from last year's level. to sing. I guess I have always Registrars and administrators sung. I used to bellow songs all from coast to coast attribute the ,over the place. I had music lessons new \highs\ to improved ·economic as a kid, but I never took them condit~ons. The registrar at Anti- seriously. But as I got older I och College, for instance, says: found that I liked leaming songs, \We have fewer students on the so I worked like the deuce to learn ragged edge financially this year as many as I could. It was just for tl:tan: we have had for some tiine.'' my own fun. I never thought of Strange. as It sounds, one coiiege being a singer. Not until I was accounts for its decreased enroll- about 17 at least. Then somebody ment in the 11ew prosperity: \For heard me one day and said my , (Continued on Page 4) voice was worth training'. I thought it was a huge joke, but I let them take me down to see Joseph Dupuy in Los Angeles. He liked my sing· ing and agreed to coach me.\ The young baritone who now knew no stopping soon passed be- yond the tutelagE' of Dupuy, who put him in the care of Ruysdael. Then came the great enigma of his training: foreign languages. Labor over them increased his conviction that it was an endless, hopeless task. Doggedly he memorized the arias and lieder, each word of them. Even today it isn't much different with him. Perhaps it accounts for the singular distinction he holds or having ben cast in every opera produced in English by the Metro- politan since he joined the com- pany. It seemed providential that the war followed shortly after a not too encouraging concert debut. The end of his enlistment in the NaVy brought him to New York and to the prominent voice teacher, La Forge, who arranged an audition with the Metropolitan heads. A few days later he was (l.ccepted. The voice of young Tibbei;: proved more promising than his histrionic ability. Somehow he was all limbs, (Ce>ntinll.ed on Page 4) Potts Chosen Head ·Of Terrace Coo.nrH At First Meeting Smith, Vice-Peesident; 'Gat- chell, Secretary; and Brown Treasurer No Functions Only Duty to Manage Annual ••Spring Night\; Plan Junior Society Willia:rn Kole Brown Potts, jr., was elected president of the Ter- race Council, senior honorary soci- ety, at a meeting of that organiza- tion held last night. The other offi- cers chosen are John F. Smith, vice-president; Frank B. Gatchell, secretary; and Ernest N. Brown, treasurer. During the meeting, which was the first of the year-, the council also voted to establish itself as a purely- honorary society, with its only official function the manage- ment of the annual \Spring Night\ exercises as in former years. It was further decided to investigate the possibility of an honorary junior society at Union, similar to junior organizations at other colleges. Wil- liam Fotts and Norman R. Stew- art we1e appointed tO> look into the matter. Potts Star Athlete Potts, co-captain of football, comes from Bloomfield, N. J. Be- sides playing right guard for three seasons on the Garnet team, he has also earned a varsity letter in la- crosse. He is president of the Kappa. Sigma Fraternity. Jack Smith of Brooklyn, N. Y. is another of Union's outstanding ath- letes. Re is varsity fullback, and is the mainstay of the lacrosse tea.rn, making all-American in this spO>rt. He is a member of the Psi Upsilon fraternity. Frank Gatchell is a resident of B.1lthnore, Md. He is varsity tackle on the Union team and is also prominent in other campus activ- ities, being co-leader of the Glel' Club, a member of lhe Student Counci 1, and photogL a phil: euit01 of the 19:37 Garnet. He b al:>o affll- iated with Psi Upsilon. Ernest N. Brown of Glovetsville is co-captain and quarterback of the Garnet football team. He is a member of the Student Council and the Beta Theta Pi fraternity. Ca:rey, '18, Explains Eastern Question Presents Views of Japan in Its Desire to Dominate Far East Atteniptlng fQi present the Jap- anese point of view in the Far EasteMI situation, W. Gibson Carey, '18, member of the Board of Trus- tees, told the student body in daily assembly this morning that \Any red-blooded American can under- stand Japan's desire to dominate in Asia-even though it may be detri- mental to our own interests/' \Don't look upon the Japanese as an unenlightened people,\ he said. \They have a great civilization to their credit, and they are and will be an important factor in world af- fairs;\ Japa.n Vlants three things, Carey declared. First, they are driven by their national ambition to desire control of Continental Asia. Second- ly, they need raw materials in the worst way, and have them easily accessible in Manchukuo and North China. In the third place, Carey ex- plained, Japan is sincerely afraid of Russia, whose port of Vladivos- tock is a constant threat to her as a base for hostile military oper~ ations. China, Carey said, though it has made tremendous advances in the last deca.de, Is suffering a severe de- pt•ession. It is afraid of the Japan- ese, l>othered by the disturl>ances In South China, and hard hit by America's silver purchase policy. There.fore th~y are in no position tG figh:t .Japan, who has so far con- tented herself with setting up au- tonomous states to surmount any tariff ba.niers..

Two aLonrn \11 Causa Petsa Parole 11 ssai\ FOUr-JUED 1877 IQ36 Member l<l37 t:\ssocicded CoUeeiate Press Dis~ributors of CollB eiiille Dieiest Svle auU t'X.LiU~JVe uatiuual adv~rtislng repre::;enta ti ves :-l.\TlU:SAL AJJ\\'El-{TUH:Sli tiBHVlCE, I11..:. 420 :\.1ad~:,uu A\'t:-llut= .r-:e\0\ Yod( City Chll'ag-o .. Bu.::.ton - San Fratlcis.co - Lu~ AngeleB Poi·tlan.d - :::,laltlc The official newspa.per of the students of Union College. Published Tuesda;,ys and Fri- days throughout the college ;, ear, except dur- ing Christmas and S:pring zecesses. ---~- -- Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady_~ N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class .Mail Matter ------:---- -------------- Subscription pzice Five cents a copy; $3·00 a year; delivered anywher~in the United States. Editmial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Senior Board Norman R. Stewa It. ........... Editor-in-Chief L.hi P::.;J L<~(.-lgt:' i-li~:.!7 S. Ralph Cohen ... _ ........... Managing Editor ::l.llunau lia l I·UlJ3 Fenton A. Gage •.... _ ............. News Editor I >t'lta l'p~tluu ! L•U::it'-·4-7~1:!~ Milton D. Bedell .................. S:ports Editor !Jelta t:IJ.:o!lUII Huu't=-4·7~•22 Donald Ford ...• , , • , ...... Circulation Manager Chi P~t Lu•:lge--t-6j:,!j' James W. RightEr ...•....... Business Manager Dt•lla l'p~ilt.>JI lluu::,e--4-7~22 Junior Board ASSOCIATE EDITORS Carl Trahman Willard Dean Edward Bany Robert Doig Hyman Enzer Hemy Hartmann Robert Ferguson J. Bundgu::> So).lholtl.ore Board Assista:nt Editors M. Depp, F. Hequembourg, P. Humphrey, W. Hitchcock D. Taft, R. Walter, R. Morgan, D. Miller, J. O'Brien, B. Rathbun, J. Smith. Issue Editor ............ Carl R. Trahnum Assistants J. Bundgus R Walter - -~-~-- -- ---- Tuesday, Octu bet· ~7. 1936 TII.E LIBRARY When :;,\lr. B1·onner left the post of li- b1·arian one of the Concordiensis columnists l'emarked that he left the library in a wot·se mess than he found it. If the I'Hte of straightening it up is any cl'iterion to judge l.Jy. we might endorsf::' the cryptic author to the extent that hi:> \urcis contain more truth than fiction. Too, \VL' must consider that the new librarian may be to blame, for after all. have not all the prolJI€n1s glared forth no\v'? It is not, however, t(} deprecate the charac- ter of either individual, Gut to CI'iticize cer- tain existing anomalies. THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1936 worthwhile. And the fact that these books, providing- you are lucky enough to get the only c~>py in the college which the pro-fessors and th€ir friends have not withdrawn, must be on the desk at fifteen minutes after eight imping-es too much on our good nature and ::>euse oi' propriety. Some day some poor mis- ct·eant who has returned a book after the allotted time is going to scream Ol' create a scene of son1e sorts, and then a change will be made~ WHO ARE THESE FROSH! ;: ; = AROUND THE WORLD By RICHARD SNYDER I ,,J ·~============~ COlUMN Y'ear·s -f-rom now recorders of in- 'This has been a bad week. The Wold anti Berg, who actually -<lid te1·nationa! affairs will devote some air is thick with rumors and com- trap the c:o1nets in the fourth dl- paragraphs to the change in Ger- . · d mens ion a:r·e now stuck there them- man-Soviet relations. Four years plaints. B'or instanoee, tt IS rumore selves a:,d a~e being torment-ed by·'ago the Soviet Unio_n was in debt that one hundred students have •• • joined the Outing Club. And it is the comet;:; which ~lap them 1v-i!t:l :to Germany Jlor mi'!Hons of marks, 1 um 0 red that Un.i 0 n beat R.P.I. their tails. l ·German military e:~epe:ts were help- And people have been complaining Dr. !•'ox; -l ::lensing the :;ituat·icm) 1 'ing to build a Russian war mar about the Student Council and stu- Now we have got a pi·oblem. H.ow 'chine. In short, Germany was ~n· · d h F lt will we g~t them out? , more friendly terms with Russw dent body meetmgs an t e acu Y Dr. M:arch;-I 'don't see why ·We ,than a~y ~~her nation i_n th~ w0rld. and the columnists !F. H. even should let thern 0Ut. Those sci en- The significant questw_n zs why heard an unfavorable remark about ttsts haven'•! even •been cour-teous. this sudden and d·r·asttc change. himself. 1 So we suggest the aboli- d d th d f tion of Union College. or why not to us psychologists. So we de>ti't: Hitler has .. mppe ' e swor . o do a good job and abolish the represent a .. science, eh? Huh, ·high- :sev~rence between the two natwns · gzade morons. Let 'em stay 'there .. until n?w only_ the most ~ormal_ ear-th? Then probably somethmg I At this p()int ~he Socially lJeflaied. :!Oilnec_ttons extst. Indee.d,_ both Jil\e this would occur. t t b az mmg to MEETINGS IN THE VOID ~reat ures, the :Student DisczplinarY\ · ;.olln 11es seem o e · . Committee. enter with a pla:n iar· .rgJ:t e_ach other, . an e:~ugen.cy t The scene is ;;;pace, talltefully or- controlli.ng w·andering meteon QY\ vVlnch 18 . appal ently not ~magrn­ At IC.lst the inevitable has happened. Th<:c namented with spiml nebulae. En· putting pajamas on them and l'Pa- a~1on o11: tile part of respective for- ter Dr. Fox ridin.g a comet and rading tbeoo In .front of Androrne.Oa .. ezgn offi?es. The reaso.n _can be e~- ft•eshmen have bolted the authul'ity of the maintaining his stateliness with ~ t .• th J ;nessed m one word: Httler. It zs l P LJ' 1 d · th f t eonsiderable> difficulty.> 1 0 one, no_Iee' s .ern. , oo~ 0 ,. n.ot easy for the Soviet Union. to Uppe:rc ~lSSl1le!1. U'U IC Y an Ill -e a(!e 0 Dr. Fox; -Whoa~ !The comet D1. ~ox. 1!.>1. <.:otfm, supp \~ Y\ ~ 'mget that .for three yealti H1tler the Sephomore Disciplinary Committee they pirouette;;; and halt.o, scorching Dr ~huut. 1'ha 1 1.uay cra:k tne !.oul!.t!l ·ias violent-ly opposed the Jews, has .ro'ox a;;; it doeo so. He sayll \Ouch' ~~m-~nslun aJld nl~a:se them. +EJ._ ()i(.terly fought Communism, and marshalled theil' fon:es iu opposition to .md dillmounts. He slaps the comet Coflm sho~ts. !'loth~ng _happens. ::H~ las announ,ced tha:t Germany must fregh 1nan rules. From the stuirs issuing from which da,;hes off to see if it can snoutll untd his. voice ts. exha us~ed rt'capture her lost empire by ex- secu1·e any other p!•ofessor;;; which to a mer-e ·\V·Inspel'. Still nothl ng ,~anding to the· east and taking the Geology Hall a Lody or ft·eshmen without it may meet. The fact is, that space happens.) 3ln·aine. 'l'aking steps toward the caps ~trade aCl'OSS the grass, directing cat- has been cunsiderallly surprised b) .Ur. Co1fin.- '1 n1u~t be losing nty 'latter end, Germany has sought to an intz·usion of academic minds and gl'ip. Oh. w-ell, who am I compat-ea l iscntlit the Franco-Soviet Pact, calls il-lld rebukes at spectatol·-uppe!'ciass- the1·e has been considerable debate ,o the universe'? !This is a se r!0ous has achieved an accord with Italy, All d t d t d 't' among the constellations as to admission f(}r him to make. He ga>es tnd finally, has made a strong bid men. . prece en s an ra 1 lOllS were what to do about it. The comet:; olf by himself to brood about iU· fur Great Britain's favor. Thus ueglected temporariiy. Not a move did any- wet·e sent out to h·ighten the fac- Dr. Fox: - Gm tie men, I have a :hese two nations will bear careful k t tl · · d d t II ulty, but Dr. Fox s-o impressed the soludon. \Ve have no powers. h•Ut valching. one ma e u suppress · us 111 epen en wa c L h one he met that he was able to get the noise we mn make. et eaoe :Many feel that it is cul'iously Ollt. .-\:::;a. lllatter of fact it all took place so a ft·ee i'ide. The t·umor is that Dean faculty ntentber present tzy to out- ;ignificant that £!nee Mon. Pac- Berg and Dr. Wold lured the rest do the oth~1·1n gtving a lectur-e on· ,ellt', -the Papal Secretary has come suddeni ,. and unexpected!\ that no one could h f h d' i d h\ -... t N pe 1·a1 - J J into t e ou!'t 1rnens on an 1:; own StlJJ)ec · ow you s c ' to A.me 1 ica, Father Coughlin's l'ittle act. .rapped thPm there.> ized academician>:>, get going! t'T·hoey uovement has collapsed and he Dr. I•'ux: -!Stretching and zub get going. 'l·he no1se spreads to·tile .vith it. It is well to remember that It b~comes evident uta time like this that bing him;oe!fl That wa;;; a tough edge of the co:>rnos. The fourth di· in the Roman Catholic Church one you fre::;hmen have organized to some extent !Ide. mension cr-acks, disgorging Drs. .v01d from above is enough to Enter Dr. Lal'!'a'bee, very woe-be Wold and Be1·g and a small fry o()f ipell finis to any-one not acting in tu yom· own ends. \Vhile we cannot blame gone. lesser sc im tists, al::>o the comets.) accord with the chur-ch's wishes. you foJ• doing so, fur eveJ·yone is recalcitrant Dr. Larrabee: How are you Dr. F'ux. -'r'hat's fine. You can :cmmer Gov. Smith is also a Cath Pr·exy ·~ stop now. tBut \hey have got going. ,j ic, but he seems to go on his with regulations, you must realize that in Dr. J:.'ox: All right, I gue;:;~. Dtat Nothing can stop them. 'l'he sourn.o neuy way unhampered. I 1 · h · h that comet! I can't sit down. zedoub,es its .volume. The sta:rs ife t H'Te lS always a ilighel' uut OI'Jty t an L b I d . h t '\avar·. r •• 100 ·__,, of eJ'Udl'ti'on spll't th\ A very important feature of the Dr. at'l'a ee;- · on t ~ee w a •• • \ \-'\ \ ,ll'esent a.rmaments race is Great j'(}lil'Self, and to Cl'OSS its path is an invita- difference that makes. There'll cunstt>llations The spiral nel>ulae Britain's placing an order for air- . bl 'fh f h nothing to sit on. Be logical. Prexy unwmd. SpacE\ collapses. The umi- ;raft with American industries t1on to truu e. en~ ore we suggest t at or is your rea;;;on being under- ve1s\ got>s streaking down the voi<l unounting to hundreds of millions you freshmen contain your individualism nined '? ALer it goes the faculty, Iecturin~. , of dollars. The reason is complex, Dr. Fox: I'm ;;;ure 1 don't know a1·guing its .. lf into the absolute.! but easily understandable. Ger with-in .)'OtJI',self. The campus is not inter- All I know i,; that 1 haven't made F.l-!. many and Russia now lead Eng- ested to know how good you were i 11 high a ;;;peech in months. except a shot·t --- -- land in aircraft, both in numbers Jlle to the comet that brought me and power. The rate of building in school; we will Cl'OWil you with laul'els Oll here. And the worst. of it i::>, there P.S. '!'he 'i.xteen lights in tbe those two countries has left Brit- y libntry u1 e ;;fill the1 e. And that !ih ,YOU!' futtu·e \\'ork. You took a Lig leap when i::m't any Union College or an carrying a good thing too far. ain far behind. Furthermore, the Jrama fe;;;tival or any newspapet.·s capacity of England's war equin- you ca1ne to college and sometimes you can- .md I can't get any publicity. ment manufacture is insufficient to Dr·. Larrabee:- I know just how II 11:·!,· he-lp her catch up with the other not quite cross the gap, The first impression you feel. I can't find a speck of THE THEATRE nations. This, plus the internal ·which yuu l'eceive at college may leuve you ;tar-dust that's heard of F.P.A. and confusion as to responsibility for The Conning Tower. I read a paper Britain's laxness, has led her to exalted in your U\\'1! eyes, but the gl'Ulllld 0 a g!'oup of mete-Ol'ites but the~ ~eelt outside help. you tread on is nut familiar, tt·eacherous pit- didn't seem impressed. I tried talk- White Hoz-se Inn, pr-oduced at th.e- ·~=============- falls should, if you are wary' keep you Oil voice annoyed me so I had to stop Rowland St-ebbins (Laurence Rlv- c IN EM A ing to myself, but the sound of my Rockefeller Centre Theatre by I• I constant vigil aguinst the disaster of an I'm just lost. Prexy. ~rsh ln~i\ ;eneral ~ir~tion by Eriilt 1 A.t thi.; point ;;;everal other peo a ne • nance l' arner Bns ·• By JOHN B. DOWLING over-inflated ego. 1f .YOU are wise you will pie enter, carrying various articles the rerlt Ly everybody from tile: · · f which they have be-en able to sal- Manhattan Livery Stables ttO ~==============-J 11111tate the ootsteps of your predecessors, vage from the wreckage of the Macy's. cat·efully and orderly put down. eat·th. Among them i.s Prof. Greene countties as well a,; the United ___ That movies are made in other Pa1·t of the ulame belongs to the ~tudenth He carries a Grleek ... v.a~e ut whihch l Aftsertw·adlk . .ing. inh on Whb.ite Horsoe. States, occur·s only very occasion- e stares, utter y orvhvtous of t e nn a m· ay 11.1g t, we ave com-e ally to the average fan. And as far Body, ill that last year it went on record as universe.> to realize w by Europe kept it so as he is concerned, the only foreign Prof. Kellogg; !Who ill of this long over tb.ere-probably because lilms which cou·ld hold any z'nterest f<woralJle to simplifying· freshman l'Ules. 1 · d t ' w 11 r· 1 d v ryb d h d t th f new y-arnve par Y• e ' m g a e e o y a o go ree or OUll' fot· him are the British ones, ex- Only Oil€ 01' two rules remained aftei' the to see that there are others in this times to :::;ee the whole thing. The amples of which are not too rare unfortunate po:>ilion. A.~ Horace, or sltuw cuvers at. least four or five <m this side of the OCE'an. Council inve::;tigation and they seemed a was it Vergil, or Flautus? said, acres and has enough construction 'd · 1 \Dolor amat comitatem\ or some- work on the .side stages to keep the It is this situation which has led r1 ICU Olls inconvenience rather than sig-nifi- thing of the sort, which is to say unemployment rolls down u:nti.l n man, formerly prominent in the Cant l'eg·uJations. It is OUr opinion that if We that Misery Loves Company. At long after elEction. :ll!OV!ng .picture busines-s in Sche- any rate we can be thankful that Of nectady, to entertain the idea of are to- a.ssert any SOl't of authority over cou.rse, we could be criticl:zed! opening a house in town to show we still have mens sana in corpore fo; rnentJonlag first the physical de- the best of the foreign films and freshrnen, ·we must discipline them. Cnder sano. Ha-ha. <No one laughs.> tails of th~ sl1ovv-?ut It 1s exactly revive notable American films when t} t t tl h dl I h Dr. Coffin:-< Also newly arrived) these pbysica:J d.etatls that make· it. possible 1e p1•esen S\S em 1ey ar y mow w ere H h' <At t.h. · t f · t b t \ ump · zs pam am u White Horse Inn is a glorified! · they stand. The rules are so lenient that it determined voice::; are heard, say va!ldeville show with every element I ha:oe long _felt that Schenectady, ing, \Let us out. Let us out!\ Drs of the good old days liberally mixedl wlt.h Its Unio~ College, ::'nd its is ludicrous to try to enforce them. And in. The play makes no pretense to. rather rosmopohtan populat 10 n, due still we try to accomplish those ends. What lrrl============= modernity. unless it be the use oE to the ?enera! Electric, i~ a ripe II electric lighting and a revolving;; Ele.'d fo1 sue~ a venture. ~ h!'n the really meds to be done is to make an intelli- SECRET SERVICE stage. rt is k·ankly set in the Stud- Eue played zevlvals last year there g-ent 1·evision of fresh man ntles, and then ent Prince era, Its scenery is <>lcl vver<; prospects of bringing in some> (!;:;;============= fashioned In tr-eatment its songs f'oJeign flll!ls. There were never enforce them strictly and to the letter. Order are not swing but th~ pleasant f'ulfi!Ied, prmcipally because it was As usual we come to bat with tuneful things !·hat make for s:_ f\el~ that not enough people would is J>reJnised on the basis that at one point in another ax to grind, but before any thoroughly enjoyable evening b_emteiested to fill a theatre of that itS development discipline existed. s;nCe the p!eJitninaries We deem it Well to , ' SIZe, and that the films thPntse!Vt>S clear up some misc(]nceptions so Admittedly dl.ll! in spot,;, Wh.ite ~\>'ould be unintelligible to English~ society (}f any rnen in order to remain a har- we can go to work with our hands Hot·se _Inn .for the most part has speaking audiences. monious whole, and ultinlately to exl'st at all, clean. It is not our intention in this what Jt takoes. Its chorines at'e The ma:n In q t. column to sling mud at personali- sprightly, Its costumes colodul v- h ~es H~n propo:;~:-; to depends on order, the society of students ties, so dear readers if you find <every time one of the 3,000-odd ex- ~me:- 1 ~ 0 ~~- t e .fits~ pomt by usm~ a your official position or conduct tras enters he, or she, wears a new ove h d ~e tl~h tts resultant low~r should be no exception. panned don't think that we don't costume) ancl Its :principals quite 'r'h{ s~~o~~ a. .o~· ar:~ tl!m chaJ·ges. love you personally j-ust the same capable and Lively. Billy House, as ·Itself Th P~:n WI . take care of Recently the Student Council has McGonigle, tl!e Inventor of t.he poected wf 1 t~ ;r:cf 6 •. ztt ~!3-Y be ex- been taking the Broru: cheer from Lady Godiva ::Bathing Suit and t:he t- ' e atr Y m. e Igent and In the first place, the system of procuring books, a precautionm_y meusure, so it is be- lieved, has two g-lltl'ing- defects, which pre- sent themselves to us at this time and they are: 1. browsing, the forte of all real stud- ents, is not permitted. 2. book service is slow and inefficient. Also lh! hours during which the building is open an' not long enough nor a.re they judiciously pl~mlwd. Fori nstance, at noon few if anyLt)d,v Wt.' the Luilding, while around closing time there is a small riot scene at the charge desk. This disproportion tends to be significant. 1t means that when the doors should l'el1lain op.en they are closed, and when 11obody is near the place, it is most accessible. At nig-ht everybody wants to study there, and yet ;vhat is the case? All the lights are extinguished and the doors locked. The short lh'i1ile one can study in this rat maze, for so it has l.Jeen aptly phrased, is of no consequence. 0 ne g-ets one's books out preparatory to a good night's work and then the call, \all reserve<! lJooks in,\ interrupts one's concentration. We suggest as an alter- native that on eveJ\y n :g-ht except Saturday the library remain open until eleven, and that the present m.etho-d of withdrawing books be revised, or 1nade more rapid and exact. And at ()ther Colleges , a number of different angles, some carrier of somE 3()0 pounds'of avo:ir- d~:lo~~~ur~ of t~e :inema,. even in deservedly, others not so. We feel dupois car-ries much of the show . ' 19 Sllc t at movres have that there is a very sfmple manner in his, ad-Iibbing apoplectic role ~ · ~nrversal appeal. The best sound in which the untrue conceptions Buster West, as' the son of bi; t~c ure~l carry- their narrative by may be corrected. It ha.s never business rival. and the young lady tb: :~ee~n !,~~ patt~n~:ts created on been the practice in Student Body who plays ltls. -light of love are as !Dogue Thi~ tenet ~mzmum of dla- to resort to the honorable policy of sweet eccentri<: dancers as we have fore~ost directo/s ~Ilo;7ed by t_he posting an agenda before each ever seen, .and ·William Gaxton as 1v-ho realize that ~I 0 a ~ountrtes meeting so here is our nomination Leopold, lh.e love-sick head-walter today is not to 1 ~ soun film of for the business of next week. We does .ve~y \':ell by- Mr. Stebbins' pr<J: lrorn the s.ilen~ rJ 1 :otef rem?ve.d hope to see it propo..sed that the ductiOn. KI!t)i\ Carlisle is just a; i m:ore impressionable 'th he ~~e IS Also we mig-ht discuss the question of 1 eserve books. Too 1nany of them are lost, .stolen or strayed, so that you never know whether or not .a trip to the library will be Sabrina, embattled goddess of AMHERST under· graduates, has been moved to a new home. Strongly mom·ed by concrete and. steel against further kid- nappings a.nd prankish students, the statue rests with dignity in the recently opened Hitchcock Me- morabilia Room, repository of Amherst historical relics. * According to a repott furnished by the coiie::;e li- brary, students of DARTMOUTH read three times as many bool!s during the vacations of last year than in those of the year before. The rise is unexplained. * * Seventy-five of the 272 members of the freshman class at L.AFA YETTE COLLEGE are either sons or relatives of .Alumni of the college. * * Thirty per cent of the class of '36 at BRYN MAWR COLLEGE is engaged in graduate study, according to a survey completed last week by the college's bu- reau of recommendations. * Through a similar investigation at CORNELL UNIVERSIT'Y it was learned that ninety-two per cent of last year's engineering graduates have either secured positions or are doin,g graduate work. . Student Council meet hereafter in personable, as joyously vocal as ·and the burden of an t e e.ar the Old Chapel and that anyone ever, but we n(}led With regret that • !tare Is princi all s~nse m any. pte- interested in attending may do so Carol Stone l:i1.8s llttle opportuni-ty f~:£ctors. Add io rhz'sPOI! the VISUal in the balcony. Such visitors, of to display tlte talents that are he1·-\ lc.reign pictut·e 1 the fact that . · · s re eased to the course, would not be allowed to Htgh spots <Jf the piece are the Uillited States usually carry writte take a.ny part in the proceedings, entrance of 'the steamboats, the Nt:le:' and you will realize wh 11 but it would at least give the in- autobusses, •the tnerry-go-rounds· f!>-retgn, non-English film Y b! terested student an opportunity to the cow ballet <sh.ades of Billy Wa t: iu.st as effective and ente' tc~n. · h · ' b f t · t 1 'I . 11 r anung, see t e management Ol' m1s-man- sons . ee rus .), Mr. House's 1 \\e · made, as any of the Holl agement of student affairs. Like- clownmg, and. Macy's lobby dis· wood. product. This column xi d wise, It should in time make for a plays. Its ·best wishe!lJ and whol e en s better,. more business-like Council Wb.lte H()I'Se In 11 is a show that ~o the idea ofa foreign f~J~u~~~;! as It should profit from well-found- is worth an;ybod)i\'s money. It isn't Ill Schenectady. ed criticism. The idea is neither art, it isn't So:IJhistication, and it\s: More Li 1 t 0 new nor revolutionary .as it is com- even good :fo1· children but as a· I. g 1 omedy men in most representative bodies skillful amalgamation ~f all tha:.t' Ma lD-e~ed Lady, <Metro-Go!dwyn in the world at large. has been f?und funny and theatri- Po.~!~ 1 • :r~cto·r s) stars William \' \' * cally effectrve dur-ing the past cen-, and J ' yzna Loy, Spencer Tracy, The attack on those elect€\ to tury or so, It Is en.thusiastical!y rec:-l tainln ean Harlow in a highly enter Phi Bete se.erns to_ us. to be ut / air omrnendeQ. py th1::~ !iepartment. -wben ~ ~omedy of what happens (Contmue4 on Pag-e 4,) i s. R. c. · Jlb'lll ~uit, ews,pa.,per trys to quaeh. a Unit Tally Gives Thomas r.l End ·-~ Er-n::i Rain and a :r are the b les:: varsity footba: second cobs-~ Dutchmen ha-.. under all sor-1 tions. Sa:turd::a R.P.I. aggre: pushed all o-.., stronger Unlo cumbing in lb. after t-he Gan score on seve: The Troja!1; kindly re'feree foot .belonging whose occasio overshadowed accurate fort~ It was he a:l~ inating ·force field, and wl from the gao a considerab 1 offensive. Tl: the use of a..., occasion to P strategi~ pol_t:J town w1th h1::: but two or t: the majority- length. Union stat·1 to show her and Ernie J and again t wealr TrojaiL tiful forty-y::; by Brown, t ~ ~oring posi 1 from in oacl punted air. Br(}wn poun the Engine• But then th of things, tn teen yards penalty, and drews holst· the field to at that pet·i· Fi<t In the sec vanced tot] line, but w~ field goal on harmlessly drews then:. astounded t: ing the 30 down the fl ered the pl was possib longest aiL' made on tJ gave a grea Neither t.• in the thil'd until the I began ton own foi·ty-- moved in teen-yard l' things by and escapli: team, beln by the saf~ of vantage. itated whi end, then Thomas,vo.~ the silt p-1 was an In was rushe ball, bein~ the line !>I It was :a of the U::r one who< some fan time and fore they- tackles s:I the line. I ters, assl nagged tl casionalls; and 'I'hoJ ling tac!1::. headed tackle of commend to preve· nabbed t: bounds !lL Billya1 ging, w~ aerial w·l the air j yards. C overhead either toE when ttu and -wit: laterals about 11i The staz long str:- seemEd ever, Jiz tricky l calmly the baD or three runner. ball in 1 ended, after. Theg major 1 side red. many J Troy. :

- s of in- te some in Ger- : years in debt marks, t·e help- ar ma- was on· Russia ~ W0l'ld, is why change, •ord of nations ~ormal both .ing to ;:igency magin- .ve for- be ex- '. It is tion to Hitler w\'::3, has .1, and- Y must by ex- ng the .rd the tght to Pact, t Italy, ng bid Thus ~arefu! riously , Pac- ; come s little nd he H' that ~h one rh to ing in fishes. Cath- n his Jf the Great •r air- Lstries illions nplex:, Ger- Eng- nbers ing in Brit- '· the lquin- mt to other .ernal 'f for lr to :-, - other nited .sion- s far t•eign erest , ex- rare s led ' the lche- a of >how and vhen .ady, its due ripe the here ome- evet· was 3U]d that lvt>s ish- :; t·u \' a wer ges. ' of ex- and l ill ave und by .on :lia- the L'ies of ved is ear Jic- ual hat the ten ·a be ng, lly- tds art 1se m- tm ~Y. sr- ns a THE CONCORDIENSIS, M::ESDAY, OCTO·BER 27, 193!> Three Union Teams Win Three Out:of Four Contests With R. P. I. ~----------------------~--------------------------------------------------------- ------ --- ----------- 1'ally In F·ourth Period D.- h F 1b }·} T R R h h d -you'd all enjoy it. Perhaps we'll _ erOS ().0 · a· · earn UUS OUg S 0 huve it ror you in the n•·xt i,;sue. 0 R . } El J.. 24 0 s ~I'her11 wet•en't n.any Union stu- More than 3(} lacrosse players are,! . ver · ensse· aer · ' even li'S . • · COfe denlt.s at tlw game hut we wish to Fall Lacrosse Gives Varsity Second Win pa>ticipating in tb.e daily scrim- <$>------- commend tho~e wilo were there. mages on the Library Fiedl. A.t tbe 1 _____ They did a dam gootl job, The •band close of the football season, hef<ue :Hammerstrom. a.nd Brock- I ~~;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;=='~;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;~,;;;:;;~~ outdid itst>lf-tlw C\'hPer leadt>rs Thomas 1Jahes Pass End Zone From EJ.·.nie Jh()wn in. Scores for Garnet the snow flies, the group hopes to • II were I'ig-ht on the joll and kept the have a series of interdass games; tnyer Tally in Three Pen- For Alma Mater , I boys \whooping\ it up-hats off to 'This is the 4th year that freshman ods,· Offense Sheng By M·ILT BEDELL I the singing of the Alma Mater. It Iacross has been organized and con- j' ·. was a good piece o:f wurl•. sequently the upperclasses will also --------- When Williams invades Alexan- be able to take part. This will sup- All that we ea n say after watch- der Field next week we hope to see plant the usual fresh-sophomore .•lng the freshmen mop up an ad- Coach Nels NitC'hman had Emie the same sort <Jf enthusiasm only fray. .rnittedly punk R.P.I. team on Sat- Brown, co-captain of tlle vaJ~it) tnpled in volume. Four Purple The following varsity players are '·unday is, what would the score football team practicing coffin cor- teams will be entertained next Sat- . regularly in attendance: Th.mnpson, . 'l:i.ave been if the field had ·been a nei' kicks last week in preparation urday. Our football team may lJe Vandecar, Blue, Paul, MacMur.~y, :·little less moist? At it was, Art for the R . .P. I. cla~h. His coaching the underdog but please remember Kennedy, Barford, Lawren<::e, Bud, ; LawJ:ence probably could have run had greater success than Nele sus· bacl1 two years when we also we!e Reynolds, Clay, Borden, Walter. ~p the 24-0 count still higher if he pected or hoped because at the con~cded no chance at all. The re- ERNEST M. BROWN h d h k h beginning of th.- second !J<>l'iod, · d There are approximate!\ twenty- · · ·a c os_ en to eep ·on t e P.ressure sul b of that game have remat ne ' 11 h d 1 h t t Ernie got ·off a beautiful kick that h S freshmen active this fall. Of tllls: a.. · t e t1me, an use on y 1s rus- went out of buunds on the R. I' I. wtth u~. It can appen again. a group the fo11 0 wing have shown the i \<\'Orthy men. Ha mrnerstrom, Brock- one foot line. lets have some o-f that good old most promise: England, F-inll. A.lte-_ rne~er, Kramer and company ap- Union spirit once nwn. mus, Taber, Pelletier, Trun~bull ancJ.: par·ently had mor-e ti,ouble trans- Billy Thomas shuuld b .. e.allf\d ..:,idt>ntly our cherr le.adel\S have Palos. The others include :b~reire •. :cend~ng the eleme~ts than the,Y did ··uynamlte Thomas\ after hu;t Sat· tttk .. n some ~uhlce ·wp passed on Orvis, Kupecki, Hutchins. Boden-: evadmg and tackhng_ the ~ac!'lftcial u.rday's game. Late in fh(' s\<'tmd nut su long ago. May we compli- stab, Kane, Gormley, Walker', Von; l~mbs from Troy It ts a s1gmfic~nt quarter when R. P. I. madP one of rn~nt them on tlu vast improve- Sholly, Mayersohn, Burdette Bro-..vn.,;.:sig-n that they t~avenot only a htgh her few long runs, be tacklt>d tlw rnent !>hown ill the past two con- Simboli, Berg. grade of matenal, but are ex~reme- 1•unner and tllrt'W him out of tt',.,ts. V\'e havt> them working, now h .· t ha e In-• 3y well coarhed that they dtd not bollllds with such force that the it is timP for tile students to co- ~ few of the ent us_ra,s. s v ; · . .essay one forward -pass despite the engineers were forcPd to take timP t 'th th s · it f 1 qU1red about the posslb>hty of nav-: ja~t that the squad' is glutted with out while the hiJ·urt>d one l'PCO\'t>J't>d U()Ha e WI ern. Wing e • · · t 1 e practice elthe:r!. ~ lows! mg wm er acr?ss .:<><oull pas~ers and receivers. hom the shock at the Armory m Albany or at the;·\\ Hammel-~tror~ t·he bt'g blonde 'Vnion was well o-n the way to D t ., ~ ~· R. P. I.'s dP·]J<'IatP ulive in the ·'d' h ' ' t 1 t k South Schenectady Army . e}Jo .•.· w.h.o di'd \O well ' 1 . 11 ·ttle Inud aga!'nst au Lng to er s1x pom s as wee h li 1£ \ last five minut''' of tlw gam<' w:1~ b · t d Further information along t 1s _nE:. lte M!'udJubut·y f·-t \\h a.gal·n proved ut on. twu occastons was preven e T d lt.h \ ~- as :oavage as it hat! !Jpen w<:ak in r 'bl b fift is expected lat.er. o ate ne 1n·:· b·e ... •on.d a ·'oubt ''tat • 11 e 1 .~ the b\Sl rom a pos:;L e score y een -' u ,._ ~ v the· beginning. T.dlinf( tu ttl .. all ·' 1 · R !-' I t k · It of these agenctes has been cor.>· plaver· 1 . 11 colle'-'\ Runn>'ng a·~ )Ulu vena ttes. ·.. . . oo a JD , .,.,, ~ ;he threw pass uft<'t vus::s st>Ve> al t t fi ·' It f ta<'ted. though e•JU!·ppecl with non-skid un a wen y- ve yar\.1 pena y or 0 ~ of which were completed until the unllt'~t':;su 1 y roughness. Sounds like ----- · <h.alns un the :rnuci~y :>Urface; and Garnet team got tht' Idea that it that lll'>t game the two schools V arsity Harriers Frosh Runners w.·. :ill ~~~~~~ly hit~·:;~~ ·l~ee ~~~~~~itseed 0 ~0~' ::: ~~il~,~~ r~:\~a~l~a~n~~a~~h:;a,: pl~:~i meet yurt all Friday night 0 T H fh.1·ee of the fo~u· touchdowns. Mer- !J8~~ was caught well in Union tt'r· IVht•n tht- Plltit•e callege turns o1.1t Lose to E ·•flgt'n.eers ver roy arru~r~ lin Brocltmeyer, tile chunky full- r·itmy but Er·nie's l<ick out of dan fm a PPP IDt\eting. Until then- - .. ·back, ~CO! eLl the other on a :>hort get· quieted the Gu1 net suvpu1 tt'I\' Iwpe fol' a clea.r Satln·day, find --- plunge over l'lght guard at the ;;tart fears. some of that O<ld 'thne spirit and I\e- Hitchcock Sets Course Record As R. P. I. Triumph::; 19 to 36 completely fllled, and the noise is- sued from them, plus the harmony of the rival bands, kept the air pretty well fill-ed with reverberation, A competent !oud speaker kept the crowd well informed as to what was happening on the field and sur- prised us all, constantly praising Brown and Thomas. Thank you for your courtesy, announcer. The lineup: Union R.P.I. LE Lewis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Gilcoyne LT Ladue .............. Warwick LG Riggs . . . . . . . . . . . . . R. Smith C Barton . . . . . . . . . . . . Baumann RG Potts ...... , . . . . . Richardson RT Ladd . . .. . . . . .. . .. . . Maricich RE Mulcare . . . . . . . . . . . . . Roberts QB Amazon ............... Abbey LH Thomas .•............• Ward RH Haskell . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stewart FE Brown ..... , .. : . ... Andrews Seo:re by Periods Union ..... _ ... 0 0 0 6-6 R.P.I. . .... _ . . . o o o o-o Touchdowns: Brown. Substitu- tions--Union: H-ughes, Dennett, Campbell, Angle, G:at<lhell, Baker,. Farr. R.P.J:.: Auditore, Farrell, Fink, Senesky, Unger, Conrad, J. Smith, Hoffman. Officials: Oberhol- zer, Penn State; DuBois, Cornell; Williams, !ltichi~an State. Sautoro Has Ea:,;y Tinte \\\'>in- : of the s;cond 1 h.alf .. Playing with Bill Thomas' r·un !Jack of punts nlembel' what vvas accomplishEd , the handtcap ouf an InJUred ankle, wa.s one ·of the bright spots of tile- once ran b!\ duplicated. uiug in Rout of tile Chuck Passe acquitted himself game. '11lme aftH time he would R P I F l wdl, and Marv-oRsen, a speed boy 1·eturn the R. P. 1. boots for 15 or ' ' ' rOS l stat•ting his fil'St game in the place :20 yards, slipping !tnd twisting --- of ineligible F'red Patrie, ran hard through the Cherry and WhitP Paul Sa.nto!O lived up to expe-c· though. sloweli down by the footing. tacklers a.nd going tlu·ough impos- tations last Saturday an.d 1 . 000 ped The Tech line, apparently inter- ·Sible holes, thn•e or fom· men fin- home easily to take the Union B. ::P. ested in the repor·ts about the prow- .ally benig nt>ede1l to tlrag Billy to I. fresh cross countl·y meet ill. tl::te · ess of the Gar·net. backfield, practi- ea.rtll. fast time of 15:28. He lead tY\'O cally stood up :most of the time, more Union frosh, Johnson and p:t·esumably to get a better view; Fisher by about 20 seconds at tl:te thus making the task of the sturdy finish line and came in nearly a Union line doubly easy. They played minute ahead of the first engineer 80 high that it was a cinch for the to place. Head, of R. P. I. was t1:le I01w-charging Gu·net wall to make only man to reach the first five, them vulnemble at almost every trailing Johnson and Fisher. TJ:Je point. The lineups: fifth place was capturecl by :Ne1e· Union R.P.I. wicz of Union who was only six LE Nugent _ ...... , ...• Michaels seconds behind Head. LT Kluge . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . Day It was an easy 20-35 victor;y for LG Lynn .. - . . . . . . . . . . . . Christie the Dutchmen, with the ft:nal o~t- C Bums . -.. . . • . . . . . . . Thomas come never in doubt th1·oughout RG Kramer .. - . . . . . . . . . . . Rising the entire 1·ace. Santoro took the RT Krull .... - . . . . . . . . . . . . Boldt lead at the outset, followed closEly-. RE Busii1o - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Wells by Johnson and Fisher and never-. QB Har:nme<.5trom .... Dankman let an R. P. I. runner ga.in a <de- LH Passe ................. Huyck cisive lead. The first engineer tcs RH Rosen ................ Maxon place fought savagely to (!a;tcllo ·FB Brockmeye:~· ........... Shako Union's two flash who b['OkE 'the Scoi\~ by Periods tape in a dead heat but his effcsrts Union. ...... _ . ~ o 12 6- -24 were unavailing. R.P.I. ...... _. o o 0 0- 0 Hoffman, the other Union raalk. to Touchdowns---Hammerstrom 3, score, toolr the tenth place in 17 :5~. :Brockmeyer. Substitutions-Union: This slow time I& excusable beca.11se Quinlan, Nevius, Halavin, Roberts, the infected toe that he na<i b~en· Coulter, Ross, Miles, Carey; R.P.I.: suffering all week had failed to Renry, Jacobs, Fonky, Lewis, heal completely and it was tno\Lgh.t Shaeffer, Owen.., Grant, for some time that he would no-t run at all. Williams Next With two victories and no de- feats under their belts, the .fros.lJ· are looking forward to next Sa.tu:r- day's clash with the Williams y-ea::r. lings. Needless to say, they ar:-e hoping for a victory. A.fter last Saturday's showing it isn't too bard to imagine one is it? Fo()tball Field Meet Entries for' the football field meet must be in the. intra-mural box by- 5 P. M. We-daesday, Oct. 28. The events will start promptly at 12:45 P. M. on A.JeJC.ander Field, Thurs- day, October- 29. Please enter (}nly those who :are actually going to compete, -H. H. T. * PresiLlent Dodll:;' plea to Pl'incP- ton students and alumni on the subject of diinking at football con- tests certainly hit home. At th,, Navy-Princeton contest Satm·day there was less drinking than In many, many years. Not so across the river at T-roy. We had a peachy picture to place on the fwnt page fRANK FERRARO FRUIT an<\ PRODUCE The Eest, for the Least, With Dependable Service 1231 Crane St. Tel. 2-7828-W ElECTRIC SHOE REPAIR SHOP 607. Liberty St. ~ Special Colelge Price: Half Sole and Rubber Heel $1.00 GUARANTEED WORK PHONE 4-0122 I \ Attention Fraternities (; Pl Ynur l'lHllt()graph RPr.ord~ at 11 I.arg~ Di•<\nnnt Also Hundreds ui R~<·nrtl' 11 t Htr J-:ae·h, 'F-ur lll't>li' t'all- \Ilul\ Vuutlt•rtll'-1~111 ll\lta Thr!a For Quality Work Call THE GARNET TAILOR 605 Liberty St. PHO~E 4-0122 Re<3ular Prices TUXEDOS RENTED Interested in Schenectady Jrzterestea in UN ION MAURICE B. GRAUBA.RT The Jay Street 1 erweler 166]A\Y STREET JVatclz mld JeH·elry Repairin{l a Specialty PARKER PENS Wonderful things should be e::x- pe~ted from Union's yearling-s wit:ll.- in a couple of years. Sa.ht:rday showed this. Not only did. tne cr().Ss · country runners wln but tlte Ero:sh gridders handed the Tr()jans su<Jlt a drubbing that the mud <>n their faces failed to hide a c:er tai n plnJr- ish tinge commonly called a !>lush. KODAKS RADIOS CLOVERLAND CREA.MERY Coaches Nitchman anil Ket~ should do well to look ovet· tbls group of youngsters if they are con- sidering the addition of new Ola-te- rial. The order of finish: 1. Santoro, U . . . . . . . . .. .. . .. 1& :28. 2. Johuson, U .............. 1& :4~ 3. Fisher, U . .. . . . . . . .. .. • .. 15- :4~ FOU:t-rtAIN PENS :Eqlert :Repairing J. T .. &:: D. B. LYON \Evei·yth~g- Photograp hie\ 236 State St, Phone: 4-8647 For l£-()U!Se Linen Service PK()N]j 4-3166 American Coat, Apron & La11ndry Co. Ul3() Barrett St. 4. Head, R , ......... , ... _ , . 1&. :0() ·======================== 5. Melewicz, U ............. 11):.:06 1 .!! 1 •••••••••••••••••••••!. 6. Frost, R. ..•.•.•••..••. - · · 1{;:08 : For = 7. Bailey, R · · .... · · .. • .. -\ 1 ~:as : Saniiary and Efficient : s. Conltery, R ......... \ -\ l'il':Oo = BARIIER SERVICE = 9. Murray, R ...... _ .. - · .. - .. 1'2:10 • • . 10. Hoffman, U , , ·\ ·, ·.. 17;58 : Demand to see this card when : BELLINGER PAINT CC). ARTHUR TRIGG. P:rop, Paints. Oils, Varnisb.es, Gias:s, Brushes and Wall Paper 126 BROADWAY\ : you enter a Barber Shop. : • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • FOR PROlVIPT SERVICE PI-ION E 2·4265 919 STATE ST. HENRY'S BARBER SHOP BARBERING and MANICUR.lMG N. Y. C. Arcade GUERRA PHARMACY 6()0 Union St., cor. Bar~ett Phone Z-9419 GAZETTE PRESS QUALITY SHOE REPAIRIM&- lteasonabcy I'riced Phone 4-7711 • • : Union Jkrrber Shops for : PRINTI.NG THE WALLACE COW~ BASEMENT : IJ11ion Boys : • • : LOOK YOUR BEST : ; .......•.............. ~

Four THE CO:NCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1936 Students Restore . \V_yatt ~ttends Ne,~· ~ol'lt; Outing Club M 3 kes Newman Club Will . Class Officers: .Umuer m Honot• of FISl{e Trip t 0 cats ki us Hold Smoker Tonight Frederic It A. Wyatt, assb;tant to Nominations and Elections to .he 8ecretary and direPtor of the . •'lacement Buteau, left today fur· One Party 8pends W oee~end Be Held During Rest ~'lew York City to attend a dinner in honor of Dr. Thomas S. Fislte,. Of This Week retiring secretary of the College Monday, Oct. 26-The Student Body finally reached a decision to-, day when after a long postpone-. ment which aroused the ire ot: critics and columnists alike, it' elected to restore class elections, with the power to elect and nomi- nate left to the respective classes. kobert D. Evere8t ;n announceu immediately aiterwartls that nomi- nation8 wul be held at class meet- ings whtch will be called at 1:0\, p. m. on Tuesday, Wednesday and rhursday of th1s week. General e,ecuons will be held on Friday. Endorse Hoople Another motion was passed when Henry D. Hartmann, one of the founders of the Hoople-for-Happi- ness movement asked that the Student Body officially go on rec- ord as supporting the candidacy o! Hoople, and thereby restore the rocking-chair and put America back on its seat. Although tn<> mo- tion wa:s at first overridden by a loud contrary vote from the bal- cony, it passed when President Everest cailed for a standing vote. The Sophomore Discipline Com- mittee, in line with its new pol1cy of bearing down on violations ot the freshman rules, delivered the finale when Jacob Amazon ·39, chairman transferred the freshman placards from one pair of first year men to several others. Several other freshmen were required to sing a college song and were drowned out by the accompaniment of their classmates in the balcony. ----0·--- Civic Music Association Sponsors Tibbett L'oncert (Continued from Page 1) elbows and joints, swingmg in un- gainly fashion. Entrance Examination Board. En. route Mr. Wyatt plans to visit the Catskill High School, the Sauger- ties High School, the Newburgh· Free A0ademy, and the Ossining High School. After attending Dr. Fiske's din- ner at the Hotel Biltmor·e, Mr. Wv- ->tt will attend the tneeting of tlie College Entrance Examination Board at Columbia University on .Vedne,;day and ThUJ :oday. In connection with his work in placing gradua t~s in employment, Mr. Wyatt will vi:;it the following it·mc; while in New Yotk: The Al- ietl Chemical and llyt• Corporation, lhe Anaconda Cop!Jf'.r and Mining Company, the Aluminum Comp<lllY of America, the Cum Exchange Bank, the Sstanda.rd Statistics Company, the Unit~d Fruit Com- pany, the Ameriean Cynamld Com- pany, the National Company, the Cummet t•ial Inve,;tllll'llt Tt ust Com- pany, the Union Carbid.e Company. ..tnt! the New Yutlt Central Lmes. 0 Make-up Tests Re'listn1tiun for mal\t'\llP tP><L' to 3e given on Munday, November 9. must be mad<• a.t tht• uflice of the dean befOI <' ti\'l• o\<\lod< Tue,;day, Novem'b<'r 3. Rtudt•nt\ mu:-;t obtain .it the dean·, uffiet• u :;lip to be :-;ign- ed by the in,;t ru\t\r· giving rht• course, retut n tht' :-;lip to the office. and pay a regi:;tt ation ft>e of one dollar. With Vassar Gl'Oup; Otlle•· At N ol'th Creek Ca. bi11 The \freshman\ who tun1ed ·()Ut to be a member of the Vassar ~ac­ uity and the chaperone fum:Jsl~ed the highspot of the pasl. '-'Veekend which six members of the O·uting Club spent with a g1 oup born lhe Vassar Outing Club at t.he ·la:.tter's cabin in the Catskills. Arriving at the cabin late Satur- day aftenwon, the Union sex:tet found it, to their COilstenla :tlo·n, de- serted. But after they had m.ter·ed the cabin and started a :fire, the eight nwmber8 of thP Vas::;at· cl ul> arrived. Following dinner, Uu en- tire g1 oup toolt a moonligllt IIilte through the woods. Sleepin.g in the cold mountain air furnished a. seri- ou:; problem, but one Unl~n me-m- bet· solved it by smoking his pipe under the blankets until 11e got warm. ThP <'ilmb I<> tlw sumrnits of Wit- tenbUI g, Cornell, and Slide Nol:ln- tain,; on Sunday was the principal sport of the weE:'kend·. T'he nine mile hike included some of t.he pt'PUie.;t set>nery in the Catskills. On the climb up Wittenl>mg t.he \f.rE>shman\ ehapet·onP mys:tedously disappean•d with one of tne Union pat·ty and did not Hhow 1.1p until ~uppc•L Canying on tiwi r· unr ele ntl~·s,; c.tmpai!,'11 fur \Major· Hc.ople:· members uf the Hooplite party in the Union group dic;ti,ibuted liter- A smoker-meeting of the newly formed Newman Club will be held in Silliman Hall at 8 o'clock to- night. All members and .prospective members are requested to attend. Dr. Robert E. Plunltett, Director of the division of tuberculosis in the State Department of Health will speak. Two nominating com\mittees ancl a committee on meetings were chosen by the club at its first meet- ing held last Tuesday. Nominating committee I consists of Burns Ba1·ford, John Matcella, William Mulvey, Frank Mele, Paul Santora. Committee II is composed. of David Ring, Franklyn Converse, Charles McCarthy, .Paul Humphrey and Paul Mahoney. Membel'S of the committee on 'meetings are: Chairman, Charles Reeves, John Dowling, Frank Nolte, Howard Brown, Har1y Marra, Charels Hockford, Edward Pintavalle, Arthur McCullough, James Wade and· Christopher Fahy. ----- -\~---------- at ure and c.:ampaign buttons to the Vassar contingent in the hope of establishing a branch at Va8sar. Another group from the Outing Club spent the weekend at North Creek working on the cabin re- cE'ntly acquired by the club. Here they gat·hered in a winteT's supply of wood. The group, however, was confined to the vicinity of the cabin beacuse of a superabundance of hunters. Returning ftom the cabin the group discovered a new route which should have shottened their former one by 12 miles. They spent more time however in negotiating the homecoming trip. CALENDAR Tonight 7:30-Gavel Club Meeting. Silli- man Hall. 8:00-Newman Club Meeting, Silliman Hall. Tomol'l'ow 10:00 a. m.-Druliy Assembly, Norman R. Stewart, '37, Me- morial Cha;pel. 1:00 p. m.-Glee Club Rehearsal <tenors), Washburn Hall. 3:30 p. m.-Glee Club Rehea:l·sal 1 complete), Hanna. Hall. 'l'hw·sday 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly, Speaker for the Republican l-'ar ty, Memoria:! Chapel. 1:00 p. m.-Giee Club Rehearsal 1 basses)·, Washburn HalL Friday lO:CO a. m.-Daily Assembly, Dr. Elmer Tidmarsh, Memorial Chapel. 1:00 p. m.-Glee Club Rehearsal 1 ·basses l, Washburn Hall. 2:30 p. m.-ehoir H.ehea,·:,a.l, Me- morial Chapel. Hurd Visits Middlebury For Laboratory Opening Dr. Charles B. Hurd, chairma11 of the field of chemistry, repre sented Union College at the re- ce>ntly held ceremonies marking the opening ·Of the new Trinity College Chemical Labmatory. Dr. Hurd says of the laboratory: \This is a wonderful new building which was 8ecured mainly through the hard wot k of the chairman of the department, Dr. Vernon K. Treible. The ·lmilding has every· thing one could wish in chemistiJ building,, and it made me a little jealous.\ Ilighest N ation~l College Enrollment in Dec a de (Continued from Page lj I the first time in recent yea·rs a ' considerable nu.mber o~ g~rls have I withdtawn thetr apphcanons be- cause tl!ey have decided t{} attend· pri.vate colleges,\ states MJJs. \Mary ' B. J. Lohn, registrar of Hunter ;allege. N~ne .of the registrars believes that the N. Y. A. student-aid ha.s in. itself influenced the enrollments. Only si:x ()f the 80 consider it even a major factor, respousiblt~ for as m.uch as half of the increase. Con- census is .best displayed in this statement by Alan Bdght of Car- negie Institute of 'J:'ec:hn<Jlogy-: \T·he Increase this year. in my op- inion, -was brought by- .impre>ved 1 financial. conditions at home and I was not materially a.ffected by NYA, as the NYA assl:::;tance -was ' available last year. \I think, however, that ·the NYA : has been very helpful and has ~ s~lved the economic :problems of many of our students.\ ----0 I Parkel' Broadcasts Tlrursday ' Herbert Parker, recently one of: th.e four guest speakers at the poli- : tical symposium of the Gavel Club ; and secretary of the Young Com- 1 munist League in the Capital dis- , trict, wi'll be the principal ·speaker ' on a special radio broadcast Thurs- : day nigl!t at 7:30 over ViTORO. Gavel Club Meeting Tonight A membership meetLng ()f the · Gavel Club for the purJ)ose of re- aligning the program for the c<Jm- ing season will be held tonight at 7::JO o~clock in Silliman Hall. • \Who's Who\ will tell you coldly that Tibbett made his Metropolitan debut in \Faust\ as Valentine. Ac- tually that is so. Virtually it was some time later, in the minor role of Ford in the opera \Faust\ being given as an honorary tribute to Antonio Scotti, who played the title role. In the second act the heavy-hearted Ford sings the la- ment of the distressed lover, The young Ford that night went through the aria with unusual measure of confidence and started for his dressing room. The appear- ance of Scotti for curtain calls brought the name of \Tibbett! Tib- bett! ·• from a wild audience. With costume half off and grease-paint removed, the young Californian made his \debut\ to the extent of tlfteen \curtains.\ After the per- formance he and his wife cele- brated. They dropped in Childs for soup. They didn't have much money. Anyway, they liked soup. A GREAT FEA.T~R~ -throat protectton. You can yell yourself hoarse- 'I smoke yourself hoarse l you won . hi srnoke are For L..,ckies, ~ ~ ____.:. rd -It's a Liqht Smoke! Thh; is the personality that l:!ch- nectady welcomes tomorrow eve- ning ln concert; Tibbett, simple, progres,;ive, with none of the usual ear-mat ks of the professed genius. -L.P. ---o·---- SECRET SERVICE (Continued from Page 2) We give monograms to those who work at football, charms to those who act, so why not keys to those who bone? After all, marks have always been the main requirement for the honor and the criterion by which Phi Betes have universally been measured. .. * Now we come to the library. As things ate now, by the time ye bookhunter has captured the de- sired volume it is too late to use it; his two weeks are up. Likewise, if one wants to get a book on some :subject and doesn't know the name of an authority, it will take him a week of trial and error before he finds anything suitable. Meanwhile, the card index has taken a terrific beating, the N.Y.A. worker has worn a hole in the cellar stairs and is himself gasping for breath, while the librarian has ruined a thumb from cutting note slips with stiff scissors. From this it appears that economic and humanitarian feel- ings should force the opening of the stacks to the layman. And so for the present, goodbye everybody. S. S. and B. ----o--- Sayre Attends American Metals Cong1·ess Meeting Professor Mori.imer F. Sayre, of the field of engineering attended a. meeting of the American Metals Congress, last Thursday night at Cleveland. Several thousand en- gineers attended. Professor Sayre is chairman on· the American Welding Society Com-· mittee on :Revision of Specifications · for Standard Tests for Welds. Professor Sayre presented a paper at ameeting of the America:n So-· ciety of Metals on the \Elastie Properties and their Relationship til Strain Hardening\. I d \ This is your gua \Teas e · 1 h • st throat irritation. So reac agotn ii hi smoke I for a Lucky · · · <! ..J1_ - f;:QJI;yr!.ghtlW!6, '.!'be American ToJ>Meo Company Your Throat Kept Clear for Actio11! Smoke round after round of Luckies, a.nd your throat keeps clear, your voice keeps clear. For Luckies are a light smoke! It is only Luckies that give you throat the pro- tection offered by \Toasting.\ So ma.ke your choice a light smoke and then sinoke round after- round and they'll still taste good - your mouth will taste clean. For Luckies are a light smoke-made from choice center!~_._ the top price leaves ... of the \Cream of the Crop\ tobaccos! * * NEWS FLASII ! * * 25 Wi.nn.ers in One Werek Forg~t to Sign Their Namu Many people, in their hurry to mail in their entries in Your Lucky Strike \Sweepstakes have forgotten to sign theiJ: names; In one week alc>ne 25 winners did not receive their prizes because we didn't know to whoiU to send them. Have EQ.!! entered yet? Have you won )'()ll.f delicious Lucky Strikes? 'I'here•s music on the air. Tune in \YourH:it Parade\- Wednesday and Suurday evenings. Listen, judge and compa.re the tunes-then t:ry Y()ur ~ucky St:rike \Sweepstakes.\ .And d<m'tforget ~sign your~ An~ if you're not already smoking lucktes; lmy a pack today. Maybe you've been missing something, -lilT'S TOASTED 11 Be Willi Tome Vol. LX., N·or11 'fo S Socialist Them: candidate Norman l morning • the stud€ One o.f A Mr. Thoma: in a speecl peal to J Roosevelt ~ Lehman to discussion\ campaign. : ed by thE speeches s' ·der, Comm ident, at 'I Fla., and dr\ess whicl fa.lo last n another h! been signe• Tl! Mr. Thm day will bl have made years. In lege under dation on ?olitlcs.\ Before audience that the e ica were t1 p.light of the \moro lege grad1 \Vere resr: consistent ernment, :l FU Befcue 1 work in t president! dained in from Prir Union T 1911. His lems bega founded 1 Tomorrov editor of organize Democra< He wa governor nominee in 1925 a fol' presi vention o He Is a Civil Libl Fund fo1 Press W his man~ written ! jector in is Indust New Lea Law Say~ WednE \Hoople· received lnent so Tibbett, accepte< him by and wis deal of Schenec Civic M Mr. 'I thought occupy think more 01 ftcation: cal spe! little l! and so cam pal of thei1 and do! i:ssues.\ The told M movem sounds noted : of you prove' Tibbet' aorse l)Q

College Dee a de Page ll yea·rs a , glrls b.ave . licanons be- I t{} attend' Ml!s. Mary 1 of Hunter believes has enrollments·. side~ it even for as crease. Con- in this of Car- Teclm(Jlogy: in my op- .imprC>ved home and ,, · affected by sl~ta.nce was the NYA: and has ,. :problems of \ I Thursday ; ently one of : at the poli- : Ga.vel Club· Young Com- '1 Capital dis-, ·spea:ker ' Thurs- : WORO. Tonight <>f the · of re- for the c()m- tonight at Hall. • a.nd It is p.ro- aste For * maiL to lone heir to you in t:ry \' • Pep Beat Williams t Rally Tomorrow Tonight I PRICE FIVE GENTS Vol. LX., No. 12 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, OCTOiBER 30; 1~36 Norman Thomas Will Speak Exchange Student at St. Andrews Union Opposes Williams To Student Body Tomorrow Helps Organize ~cottish Cheering [nFour Home Engagements Editor's Note-T-he following let- ter-college games in as large num- bers or as enthusiastically as we do. There is no cheering except an occasional feeble hand clap or an exclamation \Well done, nice effort\. V u·sity Eleven Meets Strong \Villiams Team In Main Game; Varsity Cross-country, Frosh ter is the first in a series beinJ~; sent Socialist Candidate fm· President MaJkes Third to The Concordiemls by Jolm s. Wold '38, excha.ng:e student at St. Andrews University in Scotland which will relate ;Jlls expetiences in Squads Also in Action Appearanc~ Here in Six Years as Campaign Nears End academic and soolallife. ---·-------------- Your \Concordies\ are coming in and, needless to say, are being read avariciously by not only the two Union representatives, but also by a large number of others. In fact, St. Andrews students seem to enjoy .glancing through them and are duly impressed by the kind of paper Union College can produ<'!e- there is no similar journ- al printed here. It is a real pleas- ure to get all the news first hand even though it is two or three weeks old-and to. see that the columns and columnists of the Concordiensis still have the same There are eight Americans here, including four Sweetbriar and two Smith exchange students. Last Saturday five of us organized a rooting section, fairly sl1attering all traditions of both St. Andt·ews and Scotrand. The cheers were Union ones with St. Andrews in- serted-a bit awkwardly at times. The spectators, in general, seemed to enjoy 0ur vocal efforts although a few were a bit shocked. Many of the players, however, told me that they appreciated them. At any rate, up to the time we started cheering the other team was win- ning, but the tide soon turned and St. Andrews romped through to win by a wide margin. The other day we were pleased to see the comment of a Dundee sports- writer: For the first time this year, those present at Alexa11der 1 F'ield tomorrow will see all of the four fall sports teams in a:ction, when the varsity and freshman football and cross- C()Untry teams play theit· respective Williams opponents. The man who for twelve years has been the Presidential candidate in the United States on the &ocialist party ticket, Norman M. Thomas, wiU stop off at Union College tomorrow morning on his speaking tour in New York State to speak to --·- --··- --------~ Reports from Williamstown seem l d • 1\' S to indicate that the Williams var- the students in the assembly program. ncell 1.ary H otes pur ~ity eleven is not planning to come ClttSS Guerilla fights over here for the. bus ride, despite One o.f America's leading Jiberals.\•>----------------- M.r. Thomas came out two days ago, in a speech at Buffalo with an ap- · peal to President Franltlin D.· Roosevelt and Governor Herbet t H. Lehman to \vindicate the right of' discussion\ in the present p()[itical' campaign. His demand was prompt- ed by the recent blocking of· ~peeches scheduled by Earl Brow- ·der, Communist candidate fat pres- ident, at Terre Haute, Ill., Tampa, Fla., and Buffalo. Browder's ad- dress which was to be made at Buf- falo last night wa:s cancelled from another hall after a contract had all reports on this campus to the been signed. Thil·d Speech Here Mr. Thomas's address here Satur- day will be the third which he will have made at Union in the last six years. In 1932 he spoke at the col- lege under the Joseph P. Day foun- dation on the subject of \Local ?olitic.s.\ Before an enthusiastic student audience here in 1934 he declared that the educated classes in Amer- ica were to blame for the desperate p-light of the country. It was not the \moronic masses,\ but the col- lege graduates and students that were responsible for the laclt of consistent intelligence in our gov- ernment, he said. Formerly a Minister BefoJC he entered active :political work in the Socialist party, the presidential candidate had been or- dained in the ministry, graduating from Princeton University and the Union Theological Seminary in 1911. His interest in social prob- lems began before the war when he founded the magazine, The We>rld Tomorrow. He became associate editor of The Nation, and helped organize the League for Industrial Democracy. He was Socialist candidate for governor of New York in 1924, nominee for New York City mayor in 1925 and was named candidate for president in tb.e Socialist con- vention of 1928, 1932,. and 1'936. He is a member of the American Civil Liberties Union, the American Fund for Public Service, and the Press Writet s Association. Among his many books ·and articles he ha.s written are \The Conscientious Ob- jector in the United States,\ \What is Industrial Democracy,\ and \The New Leader.\ It Can't Happen Here With Williams Around old sparkle and wit. \At St. Andrews on Saturday I (Continued on Page 6J ---0 The Frosh·Upperclass guer- illa skirmishing continues this 1veek under a cloalt of anony- mity as both sides flood The Concordiensis offic~ with bulle- tins. contrary. There are still many at Williams who remember the game here two years ago when an unhet- alded Union team headed by Dain and Semerad upset a greatly fa- vored Purple ~quad by a 30-21 score. Last year a 43-6 win at Williams- town gave Williams a partial re- venge, but they would still like to exact a complete satisfaction on the scene of the former defeat. If Sinclair Lewis is wrong and it does \happen here\ there is one man on the Union campus fully prepared to with- stand the atacks of all fascists and dictators. Lining the walls of Walt Williams' room in the Old Gym Dorm is a collection of guns capable of use on any- thing from a squirrel to a grizzly bear. School has been going for two or three weeks, now, and every- one is gradually getting down to work in much the same manner as at Union. Fall sports are run- ning at .full blast with field hockey, soccer, Ice hockey. and rugger. The latter plays a role in college ath- letics corresponding to our foot- ball. 'Hoople Whoopers' Invatle Skidmore A ::;ophomore notice, taste- fully entitled, \Sophomores Juniors, Senior:;, Unite\ de- clared that \The time has come when Bul'l,e's proposed union must be formed. The Rebellion must be crushed. Let's have everyone at the Student Body Meeting next week and LET'S DO SOMETHING. If the Disci- pline Committee can't handle the situation, then It's up to a United Students: Front to act. Remember -only two more months to Christmas. Act NOW!!\ Starting for Union as right half- back is Tyler Dennett, son of Pre~i­ dent Tyler Dennett of Williams. Potentially one <>f the best backs on the squad, inexperience and in- juries have combined to keep him out of the starting line-up. To have the son of the president play on a team that beat Williams would add to the sting of a loss by the Wil- liams eleven. The collection of ten guns includes German, French, Eng- lish, and American weapons of various types and dates. Most interesting is an old breech- loading blunderbuss used by the Army in the time of Buffalo Bill. The gun was taken from a Negro in Albany by a state trooper who found him carry- ing it fully loaded down the street. An artificial rink was opened at Perth, a town thirty miles from here. We have organized a hockey team which has thus far managed to lose one game. The Scots are very keen on the sports they thetnflelves play, but in general do not turn out for in- After seeing this collection of artillery, one can safely pre sume that when Walt yells \Quiet I want to study!\ Old Gym Dorm becomes stlll as the proverbial tomb, Year's First Pep Rally Will Be Held Tonight The entire undergt·aduate body is expected to turn out tonight for the first pep rally of the year in preparation for the Williams game tomorrow. The rally-ers will meet at Silli- man Hall at 7:30 and from there, headed by the band, march to the various fraternity houses to cheer the individual players on the team. After that, the paraders will go to Council Field, where there will be a giant bonfire, and group cheering and singing. If enough interest is shown, a police escort will be obtained for a parade downtown following the bonfire. The committee in charge of the rally is .composed of David Miller and Ben Rathbun '39, and Richard Kennedy '37. Unless the elements Interfere, as they did a week ago, the program will be run off on the above schedule. All Lower Classes Choose Candidates Three Classes :Name Over 100 For Recently Restored Class Offices The three lower classes of the college, in meetings held Tuesday, Wednesday and today, nominated over one hundred members of their respective classes for class offices, The Student Body voted Monday to t•estore class officers, long a controversial issue on the campus. Following the elections, to be held during daily assembly a week from today, the four classes will all have officers for the first time since 1934. The nominatlQ>ns follow: Junl~r Class President: Harold Ackerman, Ed- mond Arundell, Frederick Hawley, Henry Hartmann, William Hawkes. Van Ladd, Vincent Smith, and Charles Wiberly. Vice-president: Francis Agostini, ·Richard Angle. Winterton Day, George Doyle, Robert Ferguson, and Albert Seigle. Secretary: Lawt·ence Achilles, Dewitt Brown, Donald Ford, Se- veryn Hasbrouck, Donald Liffiton, Alexander Merrin.mn, William W. Mulvey, and Carl Trahman. Happiness Campaign Reaches North as Part of ProgTam Of Rallies, Speeches The Hoople-for-Happiness pa.1·ty invaded Skidmore College Hllis af- ternoon, when a delegation of twelve Union students left with a mass of litet•ature·, buttons; and a megaphone to spread their doctrine among students of \The training . school of the north.'' The freshmen put thtir two cents in wltl! an ultimatum of their own: \Let it be !mown to the soph- omore class that we Freshmen are prepared to withstand the threats of the Sophomore Dis- ciplinary Committee and will remain in I'ebellion until Xmas.\ Signed -Loyal Fresh- man. The group pulled up in front of • the several resident halls and dis- seminated. their propaganda by speaking and handing <>Ut liter- ature. The g1'oup then sang their ·------------·-- -·---- officla;l song. Plan Downtown Rally The executive committee of the club met in Silliman Hall at 7:30 last night and planned a series .of· Duchscheret· '39 Elected Head of Freshman Camp events to bring the campaign of Major Amos Hoople to a whii'l-, Wednesday, Oct. 28 At the reg- wind close. A political rally is ular meeting of the College Christ- tentatively scheduled for nex.t Mon- ian Association last night in Silli- day evening, at which various man Hall, Philip E. Duchscherer speakers will tell Schenectadians ' 39 • was elected student director of from their soap-box rostrums at the 1 937 Freshman Camp and Pro- Crescent Park of the virtues, pro- fe·ssor Wilford H. Ketz was re-el- mises, a:nd contentions of their ected faculty director. candidate. Professor Ketz gave a complete At the meeting of the executive · report of the frosh eamp which committee, headed by Robert Sim- was inaugurated last yeal'. There mons, a platform was drawn u:p, were 61 members of tbe class of to give the Major Hoople's \stand\ 1940 present at the camp which m· rather his \seat on various is- was held at Camp Rotary on sues. The platform is an answer Lake George. The eamp Rhowed to the attaclts of other· party sup- a slight profit. porters who wondered what the Major teally stood for. -----()1---- Mol'e Scholarship Grants U1·ged by President Fox Union to Pass Last Saturday the painstaking ?fforts of Nels Nitchman showed up 111 the way the va1·sity running at- tack moved. R.P.I. flashed a pretty potent offense when the referee was carrying the ball. Andrews, the only Tech back of any worth, was a poor second to the official in yardage gained from the line of scrimmage. He was probably the best ball carrier Union will be ca!Jed on ~o face. This wee[{, being fairly satisfied with the effective- ness of the running Saturday, the coaches have stressed passing. The main reason for the insertion of Dennett into the starting lineup was not through Nel's sentimental- ity but on account of Dennett's value as a passer. ''Potatoes\ Ladue, the tall tackle, hurt his leg in prac- tic~ Wednesday and may not start, whtle Bill Potts suffered a head injury against R.P.I. and his con- dition is· uncertain. In the event that neither Ladue or Potts are available, Van Ladd and Jimmy Riggs will be the starters. The rely- poly center, Bob Barton, 'Will be back on the firing line at center. \Stubby\ Adams and Charley Chapin are also moving into the forward wall at left guard and left tackle. Adams will back up the line with Jake Amazon. The lead- ing ends are the two Springfield sophomores, \Sleepy\ Lewis and Jim Mulcare. Jake the Amazon will again call signals and do the heavy duty blocking and backing up, al- though backing up is not a good Lawrence Tibbett Endorses Hoople; Says G~ee Clubs Are Good Training Treasurer: Jack Bowie, Theodore Draper, James Estrich, Willard Hagadorn, Charles Honikel, Wil- liam Ladue, Jerome Spellman, and Leonard Schultz. Historian: Edward Barry, Don- ald Buchmanan, Julius J. Bundgus, Frank Freihofer, Melvin Muroff, and Langdon Wagoner. Duehscherer is a member of the Psi Upsilon fraternity and re::;ide::; in Kenmore. In his freshman year he was. a membet· of the glee club a.nd earned his numerals ln frosh basketball and baseball. Last year, b.e earned an aUa in basketball and tb.en garnered his varsity \U\ at baseball. word to describe Jake's play. We doubt if he ever backed up a step unless maybe to intercept a pass. (Continued on Page 4l Wednesday, Oct. 28-President Dixon Ryan Fox, speaking at the annual dinner of the New Yorlt State Association of Colleges at the Town Hall Club today, urged that B k D • l T. state atd l<> college students be in· 00 store lS:P ays Jananese Prints creased by tripling the .amount a.nd. '.1:' ~·-------------------------- Wednesday, Oct. 28.-Union's \Hoople-for-Happiness\ movement have much of an opportunity in received endorsement from a prom- that field today? Mr. Tibbett was inent source today when Lawrence asked. \A great opportunity,\ was Tibbett, famed operatic baritone, his immediate answer. \Especially accepted a Hoople button offered since radio has assumed such an him by a Concordiensis reporter important role in the musical field. and wished the movement a \great Students with really fine talent are deal of luck.\ Mr. Tibbett Is in never refused a chance on radio.\ Schenectady for the Schenectady \Glee clubs do give students a Civic Music Concert tonight. vei'Y good training,\ he continued Mr. Tibbett was asl~ed what he in a soft, measm·ed voice. \I was on thought of political speeches which my high school glee club-I never occupy so much of radio time. \I went to college. It was in high think politics on the . radio has school that I first became interest- more or less degenerated into vllll- ed in singing. I'd say one of the fications,\ he replied. \Many politi- most important things is the learn- cal speakers on the radio have very ing of part singing, and this is little knowledge of the economic where the glee clubs give unsur- and social aspects of the coming passtld training, I'd say that my campaign. They monopolize much glee club experience was instru- of their time giving old arguments mental In teaching me the funda- and dodging many of the important mentals of acc()mpanlment. It was issues.\ a great help to me when l studied '['he Concordiensis reporte1• then later on.\ told Mr. Tibbett about the Hoople Several people were waiting to be movement at Union College. \It introduced to Mr. Tibbett. \Will sounds very: interesting,\ agreed the you wear our Hoople button,\ asked noted singer. \No I haven't heard The Concordiensis reporter, about of your movement, bUt I do ap- · to leave. prove of the idea,\ W'hereupon Mr. \I certainly shall,\ he replied. \I Tibbett was asked if he would en· have a. Roosevelt button here under dorse it by wearing a pin. my coat, but I'il wear yours, too, :D~> iraduatee of ml,U;jic Gchoolo if I may.\ Sophout>Qre Class President: Wallace Baker, An- thony Barbieri, Michael Cappel, Henry Clay, 'ryler Dennett, John Maxwell, Ben Rathbun, Howard Smith, William Thomas, and Ed- ward Wells. Vice-president: Jacob Amazon, Arby Halpern, Douglas Geer, David Miller, Ralph Morgan, Frank My- ers, Leslie Pa.ffrath, David Taft,· and Dona.ld Thomson. Secretary: Bouglas Blue, Thomas Burke, Hel\bert Derrick, Sumner Irish, Raymond Lewis, Frank Nolte, Jesse Shennan, Scott Smith, Wilbur Wilkinson, and David Yun- ich. Treasurer: Ribel DeGesero, Ro- bert Hinckle, Fra:ncis Juracka, Douglas Murphy, Douglas Steph- enson. Robert Twining, and Wil- liam White. Historian: Franklin Frederick, William O'Connor, Frederick Pi- pita, Douglas Stephenson, Paul Teare, LeRoy Walbridge, and To- mer Way. Fres:lunan Class Nominations of the .freshman class were not available as this edi- tion went ~o }>re~. the number of scholarships now- 1\ T l gr~~~e~~x said: \In its traditional llOtab e for Color, Economy of Line circumstances - with a hundretr colleges at hand--it is, I thlnlt, proceeding in the best practicable way, but it is by no means going far enough. It would serve the State well to triple the 750 general. university scholarships now award- ed each year.\ Dr. Fox. called attention to the fact that college expenses have ill- creased since the· enactment of the $100 annual scholarship law, and sald that an increase in scholar-- ships was needed to compensate for this increase in educational er.- penses. It was also urged by Dr. Fo:x. that a student from each senator::\- ial district be chosen on a .basis CJf distinguished records, and be grant- ed a scholarship of $500 to provide for an exb'a amount of individUal attention. President Fox, during the past two days has also addressed tl:t.e Montgomery County Historical So- ciety at Fort Johnson, and last night spolte to the Fort Orange chapter of social workers' annual dinner at the Candlelight lnn in Albany. Both on sale and on exhibition in the bookstore thiiJ week are a table dies, have achieved shades of series of Japanese prints by fa- red that seem pecuriarly their own, rnous artists, reprinted from the as are their diffused blues anti original wood-blocks. greys and lucid silhouettes. These printl:l, perhaps some 'lf the best examples of their kind, are distinctive for their simplicity, clarity, and an indefinable quality that made \all that's Japanesey\ the bane of existence in the days of Gilbert and Sullivan, and which in a normal reaction malte them valuable both esthetically and pie- torially. Particularly chal'ming In the pre- sent collections are works by Ko- nen and Hiroshlge, the latter per- haps the most famous of them all. Konen's tree, done in ·dark grev silhouette on a background of shades of the same color achieves a sense of desolation and every- thing the weeping willo'W stands for without any elaborate detail, and Hiroshige's little print of a woman in a red kimono walking through the mist conveys a great impression of motion, both in the woman's walking and the swirl- ing of the mist, agait1 with a fine economy of line. It is interesting to note that this artist exercised a great influence on one of our own greatest at'tists, James McNeil Whistler. Especially expert m·e these Jap- anese in the depictions of atmos- phere. Wind, rain, fog, mist-all are presented net as their actual selves but in suggestive lines that make them all the more evident. Twilight seems to be a favorite Japanese hour, and the young peo- ple, like those of other continents, must admire the moon, for both the hour and the astronomy are there, These prints by Hekusai, Oltyo, In coloring, the prints are except- Tanyu, Hiroshlge and others are lonal, 'l'he Japanese, using vege- now on sale.

Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1936 ~itnsiS to observe the rules which to the upperclass-ll men, wh.o themselves have gone through the same o1·deals, seem efficacious and reason- able, and therefo1·e the seniors feel that the freshmen sho-11:Jd otley the rules. However if JUST 10 JEST \ \ II \Pouf 1 Say to You, Pouf\ \A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ FOUNDED 1877 ICJ36 Member 1QJ7 l=issociated Cb[e(!)Lde Press Distributors of Colleeiate D~est REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL. ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. Co/leg11 Publishers Repr.esentative 420 MADISON AVE, NEW YORK. N.Y. CHICAGO .. Bos·roN • SAN fRANCISCO LOS ANGELES .. PORTL.ANDr - SEAiTLE: The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fri- da:ys throughout the college year, except dur· ing Christmas and Spring rEcesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y ., T'elephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectad:y Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the l!~~t_e_d __ States: Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Senior Board Norman R. Stewart. ........... Editot-in-Chief Chi P:s1 Lodgt: ,4·Gf1:!7 S. Ralph Cohen ............... Managing Editor Silliman Hall -4-0133 Fenton A. Gage ................... News Editor Delta Cps1lou Huusc-4~7~:!~ Milton D. Bedell ............•..... Spotts Editor l>t•l td. CI•::,Jlun llou::-t-4-7: 1 2~ Donald Ford .............. Circulation Manager L'hi l'bi Ludge-!-6~~i James W. Righter ..........• Business Manager llt\lra lTp::-!loll Hnu~e-4-79:!_2 ___ _ Junior Board ASSOCIATE EDlTORS Carl Trahman Willard Dean Edward Barry Robert Doig H~·man Enzer Henry Ha1tmann Robet t Fergmon J. Bundgus Sophomme Roa rd Assistant Editors M. Depp, F. Hequembourg, P. Humphrey, W. Hitchcock, D. Taft, R. Walter, R. Morgan, D. Miller, J. O'Brien, B. Rathbun, J. Smith. A non~political gossip column the enforcem~n t of the rules is impossible (so 'elp me). Editorials will be they will b.e abolished for all times, and the fo~:r;ffa t~el~:: ~~~e week just past yearling-s can wander their own aimless way, has been rather dull. Funny as it h d d 11 d h may seem, the fellas seem to be un ampere an uncontro e • We quote t e studying. Probably that's what editorial fro1n the BROWN and WHITE to makes everything so dull. show that th:is situation is rife elsewher.e Campus Bagatelle: Freddy Bron- ner is hereby christened \Mur- than at Union. H is as foilows: phy\. He is no longer the \Sage The l\IintJte ~-Ien of the campus l1a.ve of Bailey Hall\; he is just- plain ll \Murf\, Remember now, youse finally organi:zed. guys, when you see Uncle Freddy , call him by his new name. There After a lengthy delay the Vigilante com- is no particular significance at- mittee, organ.i:z.ed by Arcadia to enforce tached to this but it might be the means by which we can have some Freshman regulations, has banded together. fun ... what two houses are plan- Today the ch~irman has sent out letters re- rung a big time Friday night ... the Idol has been painted a num- questing fratErnities to elect sophomores to ber of times this year. Nobody serve as vigi]~ntes. knew who was doing it. Well, here is the dope: One freshman !it is too early to predict how effective has a nut on getting up in the h 'tt 'II b B t t f middle of the night, slipping out sue a cornm1 e~ Wl e. U a repor o of his fraternity house and doin' the actions of' the committee should be made a paint job on the aformentioned object. He was found in the act mandatory at the- next meeting of Arcadia. one morning a week ago by some And at that time Arcadia can judge of his fraternity brothers. His name-Donald Roberts ... Special whethe1· Frosh rules should be dropped or ... uncle Willy and the Secret continued. The type of report submitted by Service Bureau agree on some- thing ... the set-up in the library, the Vigilantes ·will be the criterion. If the by which you hav.e to wait a life- 'tt 1 f 1 t' time to get a book, is lousy . . . comnu ee ca.n s l.OW success u prosecu IOn last week Professor Manheim re- of violations ihey will have proven the case quested his class to write down ' 1 t• 8 'f h f '] h '1 their names on a sheet of paper tor l'eg-u a Ions. ut 1 t ey aJ , the fub - so he would be able to tell who wa::> ity of Frosh rules will be obvious. who. Johnnie Altemus (D. U, wise- guy) knocked Manheim right off We are llOt fostering- eithel' side. What his seat by informing him that he we do want to sug-gest is that where thet·e is had one Emily Post on his class ... what happened in the Newman reasonable doubt about the fairness of the elections ... the nominations, el- I'Ules the Sopl!on1ore Disciplinar.Y Committee ections, and for that matter-exist- ence-of class officers is tied with !'hould consider r~vising them. Furthermore, the tax committee ror the umuu ·r th 1 t 1 th 1 ld 1 ']' college Dopey Idea Contest _ .. 1. e rues :mus Je, ey S lOU lE' Uti 1- there are approximately 225 men tarian, as for inst~nce making the fre;:;hmeu m the sophomore class .J3 uf tlwm :>peak to upperela.ssmen when they pass bv, are running for office ... Bob Saaf, J commenting on this sad state of and making tl1em learn the history and tra- affairs said \The only way to have d . . class spirit around hem is to ItiOllS Of the COlleg-e. Jt has become quite make every man an officer of the evident that tltey will not respond to any- class ... so many fellows running fot• office is Wacky in itself- but ... clap hands everybody ... one, fraternity will not be 1 epresented' at Freshman camp next year be- cause their representative rushed at this year's camp ... in the Con- cordy presidential poi'l last week the junior class cast 193 votes- thet'e are 158 men in the dass. .. \We Hope to see it proposed that the Student Counci:l meet here- a-fter in the Old Chapel and that anyone interested in attending may do so, in the balcony.\ · - Secret Service Bureau, last Tuse Social Note: \Eight hundred invitations have, been sent to the students of the college to attend a tea, reception, and ptogram of enter·tainment to be held next Wednesday evening in the Old Chapel in conjunction with the ::>tudent Council nteeting\ said Bobby Everest, president of that body when interviewed by Katrina· Van Curler, social editor. \Also\, Bobby went on, bubbling over with enthusiasm, \the guests of honor will be Dickie-wickie Snyder and the tax committee and Georgie- purgy Haskell. They will occupy Tile one man repertory company -tonight the \Continental Vari- eites\-tomonow \East Lynne\. Thillks of life in terms of French irregular verbs-vei'Y irregular. Will genuflect 'Six times at the mere mention of the French Aca- demy-six more if you refer to it as a leai'lled body. The ·last to remind you that the middle letter of SIN is >I. Pas- the rostrum. The student council sion is his by-word-sex !lis Cl'U- will sit on the floor. The meeting sade, Has ambitions to d() Isolde will be presided over· by Dickie-. but thinks that the time is n.ot ripe. Face square and Germanic as the Dresden Opel-a House-circles under the eyes like a th1-ee weeks' han.gove1·. Mouth long and pet- tish-nose straight and th.in-like a string bean. A dressmaker's dream-taU and slender. Hair the colo1• of a half- extinguished bl'Ush fiJ:e-like a dandruff ad, Clothes too uttel'ly utter-have you ever sean a. candy stick walking-well we have! En·atic as a p1ima donna, Euro- pean as Schwietzer, fl'agile as a tea cup, newsy as a oolumnist, aesthetic as a FI•ench tart (no pun intended) fluffy as a cream puff, selious as a maid's day off. -PETE Issue Editor. .. Willa1·d Dean thing unless the!'e is a reason why. its even Wackier when you con- sider that once elected they won't have a thing to do .. , the Mounte- banks are going to exchange a play with the Skidmore Omnibu~ wickie and his friend and his fra- ternity brothel::<. Following this\ said· Bobby, \we wHI have oooh, such fun!~ You know I'm awfully grateful to Georgie-porgy for such a M-A-R-V-E-L-0-U-S idea! It's just G-R-A-X-D: Then comes the tea and cookiE's and lemon ice. This is the tax committee's idea, you know,\ Bobby gushed forth. \Then the entertainment. Fanny Con- verse and some of the neutral boys are going to sing 'Monopoly', Then tlw D. t.:. kids are going to render \Look what we've got'. The Beta via~ bu~s cue going to sing 'Hittin' the Botti<•'. Then the Phi Gamma d\\'\ will '\uder ··we T'urned t-he TaLJ,., un You'. Then Carrie Gar- rh;on and Geol'gie-porgie and Dickie-wickie and the tax commit- tee will stand up on the rostrum and serenade the Student Council with 'Tear it Down'. Then, the Rtudcnt Council, led by Snatchie- gatchie Gatchell will retaliate with 'You Have l:!tolen Onr Heart', Fol- lowing this, the entire company Assistants R. Ferguson R. :\Iorgan F. Hequembourg Friday, October 30, 1936 BEAT WILLIAI\1~ CLASS NOMLNATIONS. WHAT HAVE THEY COME TO? I The democt·atic theory, as exemplified by France, of having power split between many i!...;;;===========~l CINEMA By JOHN B. DOWLING We have seen the cheerleaders pt·acticing theh· cheers, we have he~t·d the band re- hem·sing its songs, we have watched the football team scrimmage, a .. nd we have heard several students speculating· on the game with Williams, a team rated by John H. Tunis, sports commentator, in the simon- pure class with Union. These facts seem to indicate that at last we t-U'e warming up our spirits. The victory of last week has set off that spark. George Daley is called my-team- Union Daley because of it, ~md it reuFy i!' present here when something can arouse it. Once the ball starts J•olli ng it keeps going faster and faster until its inertia finally wears out, but we hope this will not happr1~ until after the Hamilton game. Remembe1 two years ago when the team litei·ally thumbed its nose at the P'urple Knights of the Sag·e when a fanatical gallery just would not let its team weaken. There is little or no reason this year for the te.am not to repeat its performance again providing it gets the full support of the students_ If evel'yone will show, after the game, as evidence of his spirit, a severe case of laryng-itis, and if everyone will work his neighbor into a sim- ilar frenzy, and if everyone turns out for the game, all we can say is \Willi~ms watch our heels.\ Regardless, though, of th.e outcome, there factions has found its way into the nomin- ation of class officers. By the number of nominees up fo1· each office it appears as though the nEutrals, who form a minority, should e.Ject t:heir men at will with the fra- ternities fig·h ting for runner-up positions. This is a heal thy sign, for the neutrals will no longer have to make deals with any fra- lernity to put their candidate in office, and it is almost to much to believe that the fra- temities can (!Ooperate enough to break up the neutral f~ctir>n. All that the fratern- ities will have left to oppose the neutrals will be the appeal that their outstanding mem- bers can make to the student body as a whole. Perhaps in the future we will have ~oap box o1·ations and cigar-hand-out tactics. This wou.ld pl'Ove most entertaining if it ever came to pass, ~nd would familiarize prospec- tive politicians: with election procedure. The administration mig-ht well insist on this for it could supplement other prescribed courses ·n political seience. And at Other Colleges . . . Classes in navigation and allied subjects were started last week at M.I.T. for all those interested in sailing, More than 4-00 students joined the institute's Nautical Association, which has the most extensive college yachting facilities in the country, last spring, and even more are expected to participate in its activities this sea..son. • * * are certain obligations we owe to Williams A new system of proficiency examinations designed as its host. When its team trots out on the to encourage stud-ents of high scholastic aptitude has f . Jd th h been instituted at RUTGERS UNIVERSITY. Ap- Ie , e W ole Union stands should follow propriate tests wi11 be given to gifted underclassmen the example of our cheer!eadel'S and give. to allow them to demonstrate proficiency in any part of the freshman-sophomore program and be credited the men of Williams a hem·ty welcome. Our immediately with the corresponding course. * Stage Struck <Warner Bmthers; Proctor's) culminates a thoroughly mediocre week ln. tbe local cinema. Here again we have the story of the little girl who tries and tries and makes good and also makes the director. Dick Powell is a dance director who is wea!'y of seeing females at all times and in every direction. After getting fired a few times by Joan Blondell, a tempermental star with money, he does direct a show and manages to get the little girl who has spasmodicaHy been trying to get on the stage, even as she manages· to step in for the star anti save the show. Warner b!'Othets found that such a success story appealed to the public inForty Se~ond StrePt and has been using evet· since in its musical films. Why, no one knows. That the formula has lost all its verve and mterest is recognized by all audiences who must suffer through repititions of it.. And as obnoxious as the story are the mannerisms of Dick Powell. And if you remember, one Busby Berkeley used to stage the dance numbers for Warner's, nDw he is directing the musical pictures. I suggest that he might better have remained in his former posjtion. And too, such foul gags and smy dialogue have not graced Proctor's screen since school opened. The only relieving features of the film were the Yacht Club Boys and the antics of Frank McHugh. Vaudeville? will serenade Dickie-wickie with II ll 'When Did You Leave Heaven\ THE THEATRE -W.W.M. ~~~~~~~~~~~ MUSIC By LESLIE PAFFRATH Mme. Nazimova in Hedda Gabler by Henrik Ibsen. Presented by Jack Stern at the Capitol Theatre, Al- bany, Oct. 29. Last night, theatre-goers of the That we find ourselves in oc • Capitol District were treated to the casional discord with the professed greatest dramatic thrill of the local critic is indicative that in vary- season as the talented Nazimova ing measure we are all critics our- played for them in Henrik Ibsen's selves. When Lawrence Tibbett Hedda Gabler, which she will pre- appeared in concert last Wednesday sent in New York next weelt. Re- evening there were probably as peated curtain calls proved that many diverse reactions as there she is just as fascinating in the were critics: prectsely 1500 of them. new production of Hedda Gabler as Then by what prerogative does when she made her English-speak- this voice raise itself above the ing debut in that play some thirty multitude of the hall? Only in years ago. attempt to generalize group re- a<'tion. Schenectady was unquestionably more than mildly disappointed in tbe recent performance of Mr. Tib- bett. More specifically, the local Civic Music Association audience ptovet! unt·eceptive to the program choices which characterized the artist's earlier' groups. The ap- pearing artist convinced this re- viewer that as. well as the Emperor Jones Glory-Singe!' he is a fair artist of the light melody of Brahms <Minnelied), Schubert and Hugo Wolf <Lebe Wohl). Appar- ently only in the bolder numbers did Mr. Tibbett fulfill the expecta- tion of the audience. Only when he assumed the role of the pop- ular Rogue, the dramatic song in- terpreter, the histronic exhibition- ist of radio and cinema, did Sche- nectady music lovers find warm ex- pression for the artist. One felt a general sweeping regret among the assemblage that the singer could not have been assisted with a Vaudeville back-drop, a baby- spot with engaging color effects or an accomodating costume change. If Schenectady felt partial dis- appointment in the program of the Metropolitan star it is because Schenectady, with the nation knows the artist principally as th~ popular bold and robust figure of in~e;pretive drama, of the negro sprrttual of Messieurs Clement Wood and Jacques Wolfe. They cannot reconcile themselves to the Tibbett of light air and ballad the artist of delicate tone color 'and ?eneral nuance. And per•haps it 1s as well. From the time Nazimova made her first sweeping entrance on the s~age, looking as young and. stun- ning as ever, until the final cur- tain, she captivated every member of the capacity audience. .As that famous Ibsen character the bored sophisticated Hedda, 'she swept through the play with graceful dramatics-playing with destinies at her own shallow will--until the final realization of the truth about herself crushed herself-ungrace- fully. The supporting cast, lead ·by Mc- Kay Morris, was excellent. As Judge Brack, Hedda Gabler's un- scrupulous admirer, Mr. Morris gave, n.ext to Mme. Nazimova the . most distinguished perform~nce Hedda's husband, the meek young scholar, was played by Harry El- lerb:, who drew the most laughter p~ssrbl? from an Ibsen audience With hts famous and frequent line \What do you think of that?\ ' .Although she is now well ad- v_anced in years, Nazimova's beau- tiful figure, low modulated voice blended with her graceful actions' g~ve her the appearance of a young \l'lrl on the stage, Nazimova's acting rs very emotional yet she showed h~r greatf!ess as an actress by com,- bming wtth the emotion enough restraint to make her cha!'acter real and life-like. sportsmanship should be as evident as om· spirit. Then they can return to Williams- town feeling that it was a pleasure to play again at Union. FRESHMEN RULES Apparently the students at Brown are having the same difficulty with their fresh- men that we are. The frosl'l seem reluctant The NEVV YOR.K UNIVERSITY College of Medi- cine will give courses in scientific crime detection for doctors, police officers, and other Interested laymen. The new courses :are expected to fill' a need in sup- planting methods of the oldtime corQner of exam- ining suspicious dEaths. * Five pairs of stained. glass windJows representing. faith, hope, chat'it::v, justice, and wisdom will be in- stalled next monti::J. In the Heinz Memorial Chapel at the UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH. The chapel is a gift of the sons a.nd. daug.hter of the late H. J. Heinz. Why not h.ave 57 windows for soup, pickles and ketc~up 1 To my certain memory, vaude- ville has usually managed to strug- gle along with a pit orchestra and five acts on the stage, each of five or ten. minutes duration. Yet more and more we are visited by stage shows which slap a band on the stage, use up half the time in playing badly arranged numbers, and pr•esent a rather large num- ber of turns with insufficient time for anyone to see much of any turns. The current Proctor's vaudeville sins in this respect greatly. The effort to make a re- vue out of a number of essentially disconnected acts is a mistake es- pecially when the master of cere- monies is not up to his job. I feel that the acts would have been bet- ter if they had not been crammed into a revue, and if the pit band had supplied the music. All in all this is a sad week-end a.t Proctoi's. But on Sunday comes the notable film \Dodsworth\ wbicb. the colunm $1l~s-~.el:3 you :o~e. Now they are inquiring. \Tibbett .America's premiere baritone Why? And the answer is, becaus~ he Is Tibbett, Tibbett of the New York Metropolitan, and to hls name there ad?-eres all the veneer-glamor in- evttably associated With thoat com- pany. Tomorrow it will be Huehn Greenwell, Britton, Dixon or an~ other relative unknown. But to- day it ~Jil Tlbb~tt .. Al~hough Il:edda Gabler was writ- ten m the latter part of the nine- teenth century, the production was pt:esented. in a modernized form With settmgs and costumes of the P.resent day, Stewart Chaney's set- tings were well executed and added much to the beauty of the produc- ~ion,. The ~ost striking scene was ne m whrch the entire staga was darkened except for a dimly-lighted ante-room in the back in which one ?OUld just distinguish Hedda mov- mg around In the semi-darkness. ,wh.atever one may think of the Piachce of featuring \stars\ rather than plays, Nazimova's perform- anc;e last night provided as much enJoyment as one can get from dt·ama.. WH ALF It seem~ mands a t and 0f our Th.e .Ame1 sents the be~ to provide and at the guard liberl extension 01 Our econc ·based upon the vights ( fair reward own initiati· to unx'estri• have :Jearne( lesson that produce wei waste the I by unwise striLction. This Arne ernment tc nomic syst highest stat largest amc joyed by a Europe do There is r sho·uld, or defend it 1 cile it wit! A compa candi<.lales to the col dan's bacl him tor tl under thi Worlung f Iad.der he life a.ntl e} periences I ha;; lived lea.rned to wa.y. No 1 hu.man k.r. tlon has c to choose ords also filled his c past and ticed econ< ernment. Close to to be mot always In bu.gs are oJ>erations periments. fu.ndamen· vagaries c devices ar by tradm the funda obtained him to un believe tb m.ic destii th.e unres of the in in. Mr. La Mr. Ro• stand up ation. Et platform he substa ing his t• ·ing of ti so notori( stances il the nomi of the :C ceiving tl so comp counsel a tended p force rns h.is polici includes Davis, I Reed, Ca Smith. I vent a di ism or E advisers perience. In this s.uggest self may erican t1 tained i1 impossib' the eco masses, friendshi .cusses A confiden His pri were ref elgn sec· PHCl Dr 435

Pouj'' company Vari- Lynne\. of French irTegular. es at the Aca- refer to that the >I. Pas- Ius ern- do Isolde n.ot ripe. as 1~e weeks' and pet. thin,-llke and of a half- a utterly n. candy Euro- as a oolumnist, (no pun puff, off. da Gabler by Jack AI· of the ted to the the local Nazlmova Ibsen's will pre- Re- that in the Gabler as thirty made the stun- cur- member As that he bored, swept graceful destinies the about d by Me- lent. As un- Morris the . young El- laughter audience line, well ad- beau- voice, actions, a young acting showed by com- enough writ- nine- was form s of the ey's set- added produc- ene was age was one mov- of the \ rather much from THE CON00RDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1936 Page Three Landon Wins Union Presidential Poll by Slight Margin --------~------------------~------------------~· ~·------------------------------------------------- WHY ALFRED MOSSMAN LJ\JN:DON? It seems to me that our choice for President this year de- mands a thorough considerati0n of our A1nerican tradition and 0f om' econ0mic system. Kansas Governor Favorite Over President Roosevelt WHY FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT? President Roosevelt deserves to be l'e-elected because of the accomplishments of his administration, because of his high and demonstrated abilities, and because of his social philosophy. 'CONCORDIENSIS POLL FOR PRESIDENT The American tradition, repre-<S>-------- sents the best attempt so far made to provide effective government and at the sa:me time to safe- guard liberty by r-estricting the extension of that government. And his admiltistration has been characterized ·b~ the extension •Of governmental enterprise, by the encroachment of ,liberty, and by an alarming in.crease in the cost of government. Landon Hoosevelt Lem-ke Bt'OVIdEr Tho :mas Hoople Total V <ltes Seniors Juniors 70 72 57 77 1 0 0 10 5 8 14 28 147 192 Under\ classes AllcStudent Faculty 125 267 3 81 215 11 When Franklin D. Roosevelt as-® ---- --- -------- sumed office as president of the I . , . . . · United States In March 1933 , a a~ ply deserves .I eeh.ctwn. Go~- 3 4 0 8 18 0 13 26 2 1 40 0 231 570 16 Our economic system has been based' upon private property, upon the vights of the individual to a fair reward in the results of his own initiative, and upon the right to unx'estricted production. We have :learned in the past the simple lesson that to live well we must produce well and that we must not waste the products of our efforts by unwise expenditure or by de- I am for Mr. Landon because I fear the danger of fundamental change in. our governmental insti- tution and beca.use I ~eel Mr. Lan- don be stequiiJpped to lead the country back on the road to sub- stantial progress. --CH.ARLES T. MALE Vote, Th.ough Unreliable, Considered Reasonable Indication of Student Views; Major Amos J. Hoople Ends Third grave crisis thfeatened the nation. I er nor , La?-don h~s had no experl- Unemploymen.t was widespread, ence ~n. mter~attonal mat!ers, he foreign trade almost destroyed,, ptOpo .. es to ra:~e the tan.ff and prices were ruinously low, stand- 1 collect the wa debt. Ir: tlmes of ards of living were declining and\ world dung~r, .when _a sm~Ie :lia;se gloom and disaffection were every- mov_~ by an) one,. mcludmg he where. President Roosevelt acted Pt eorden~ ~f. th~ Um~ed States, may promptly and courageously, and i plunge ctvthzahon mto war, we ~ucceeded in averting disaster, re-i need ~s _our lea~er a man of expeu- opening the banks of the nation, I e;lC_e m Ulternattonal rela_tions. The and inspiring the people with a new Cmted St.at_E:s now_ e?JO~s thor- confidence in the American future. oughly cord1al relat1?n;:; wrth Cell- President Roosevelt r•efused to let ~ral an';J- Sou~h Amenca. The Pres- millions of people starve. He advo- ld:nt ~~ hls . Ch~tauqua speech cated a policy of federal emergency ra1sed h1mself m statue far a_bove relief and of extensive federal ub- other statesmen of the day, he lie w~rks. Local relief had fa1\ed. stands _fot· peace; h~ exp~essed the The president gave a humane an- determma twn o~ thts _nab on to de- swer to the problem of human need fend Lt_self and Lt::> nelghborhood. and provided with an income mil- . Pres1dent Roo:;e:elt has a f~r­ lions of people who othe'fwise stg_hted and well-m~egrated soc1al would have had none. His forma- ph!losop~Y-. He believe::; ~hat the tion of the Civilian Conservation vast maJonty of the Amenc_an pco- COips removed fl'om city streets pie ?eserve and should rece1ve pro- and a state of restlessness thou- te~twn. from th~ few of the strong, sands of young men. These he w o wo_uld acqu11·e all the wealth of placed in healthful outdoor sur- ~~e ~a:l~n for themse~v~s. In shor.t, roundings and provided with sus- e Pr ebldent beheveb m economtc tenance and useful work. I protectwn for most of the people. -----0 ----· t;tt·llction. This American tradition of go.v- erm:nent together with our eco- nomic system has given us the . highest standard of living and the largest amount of liberty ever en- joyed by any people at any time. Eur:-ope does not understand 1t. There is no reason why Em ope sho·uld, or why we should try to defend it to lilurope or to recon- cile it with Europe's plan. Political:Groups Start Final Drive Democrats Speak for Eleeti()n Of Profess() J' Eal'l Cummins; !Republicans Active Repl:lbliea:n Alfred Mossman Landon nosed out Democrat Franklin Delano Roosevelt for the Presidential .election in The Concordiensis Poll for President taken in daily assembly a week ag-o today. The Kansan defeated Roosevelt by the small margin of 44 votes out of a total of 586 cast by stu- dents and faculty. A. comparison of the two major candiuales for President leads me to the conclusion tl::at Mr. Lan~ don's background eminently flts him tor the task of carrying on under t.his A.merican tradition. Worlung from the bottom of the Iad.der he has lived an American life a.ntl experienced Amei·ican ex- pedences in the middle West. He ha:o> lived the American life and learned to produce in the American wa.y. No man has a monopoly of hu.ruan knowledge and Mr. L.an- tlon has demonstrated his ability to choose his advisors. The rec- ords also show that he has ful- filled his campaign promises in the past and has produced and pi ac- tic.ed economical and efficient gov- Thursday, 'Oet. 29.--The \Roose- velt .for Re-election\ club and its opponents, the Landon Club, are entering the homestretch this week in their drives for the election of their party ca:ndidates. Both clubs have been actively campaigning for their nominees for the past week. Over 70 per cent of the student~ body, or 570 out of 804 men, voted. Incomplete faculty returns, as compared to statistics on student preferences, shQwed a much larger vote for Roe>sevelt, who received 11 out of 16 votes. Landon received only three, and Norman Thomas two. Concordiensis, being slightly cyni- cal, regards all parties as equally untrustworthy. Therefore, we in- clude these votes. The DemocJ:a·tic coalition has been speaking for the Roosevelt and Cummins ticket at various vicinity meetings. Charles Reeves '37 ha:o spuken both in Rexford and Amsterdam .for the cause of Dr. Earl E. CIUllmins, while Guy Grave;:; '37 hiW' ;:;poken at a Ninth Ward Democratic rally and Wil- liam Mulvey '38 at the Tenth Ward. ernment. Close to the land, things seem to be more sound. The sun rises always in the East, and potato b\J.gs are not influenced in their o]>eratlons by \governmental ex- periments.\ Fundamentals remain fu.ndamental through all of the vagaries of individual imaginative devices and schemes. Mr. Landon b;r tradition and environment has the fundamental development not obtained in books which enables him to understand this. Those who believe that most of life's econo- mic destiny generally results ftom th.e unrestricted ability and effort of the individual have confidence in. Mr. Landon. Mr. Roosevelt's record does not stand up well under close examin- ation. Endorsing the Democratic platform in 1932 without reserve he substantially repudiated it dur- in.g his term of office His flout- ·i!l.g of the Constitution has been so notorious that the citing of in- stances is unnecessary. Accepting the nomination ft•om the leaders o:f the Democt•atic party and re- ceiving their campaign support, he so completely disregarded their counsel and the benefit of their ex- tended political experience a.s to force many to publicly repudiate h.is policies. The list is long and includes such names as John W. Davis, Bainbridge Colby, James Reed, Carter Glass and Alfted E. Smith. Discretion and space pre- vent a discussion of the American- ism or Economics of many of his a.dvisers who replaced those of ex- perience. Cummin:s Just Returned The three lJnion students have spoken lal gely for the cause of Dr. Cummins, who is the Democratic candidate for Congressman. He has just returned to the campus from his recent illness and his campaign will swing i:nto full stride this week. All the Union. speakers are speak- ing from a student's point of view; and their appeal is based on the fact that they are personally ac- quainted with. Dr. Cummins. The Republicans, represented by Francis Townley '37, are also work- ing with the city party organiza- tion. Townley has spoken for the re-election of Congressman Frank Crowther. HE has also addressed the American Coalition of Inde- pendent womEn. Both parties have expressed a grave fear of the \Hoople for Hap- piness\ .club, .started at Union about a week ago. :Each has been sapped of its strength by the Hooplites. This dt awing process has reduced the two majo·l' parties' campaigners to a few individuals instead of the original club organizations. Enzer \Vill Again Head Campus R.ed Cross Drive George H Mitchell, chairman of the 1937 RoLl Call of the Schenec- tady chapter of the American Red Cross, and President Dixon Ryan Fox announ'CCed this morning the reappointment of Mr. Milton M. Enzer, assistant to the president, as the Union College solicitor in the city-wide ca:mpaign that will last from Nove=ber 11 to Thanksgiv- ing Day. Mr. Enzel' has placed Henry M. Minor candidates, including Ma- jor Amos J. Hoople, polled some votes, but it was evident that the student body Is still most interested in the contest between the Repub- lican and DemQcratic parties. The Concordiensis, however, makes no pretensions as to the re- liability of the statistics it has gathered, but merely presents them as an indication of political trends on the caro.pus. The fact that in the junior class more ballots were written tha.n there are members registered almQst automatically in- validates all of their votes, But The Byl'ne ()utlines Points For Democratic Party Wednesday, Oct. 29-Senator Wil- liam T. Ey:me, dominant figure in the New York State Legislature, outlined ten of the major points of the Dernoc.Tatic Party, in the in- augural speech of a series of three political addresses in daily assembly today. Quoting from \The Campaign Book of the Democratic Party\ due to the laclt of time, Senator Byrne stressed the fundamental import- ance of ol<i age and social security, rural electrification, housing, agxt-' culture, lal>or. business, youth, mon- opoly- and concentration of econ- omic pe>wer, government finance, and foreign policies, to which the present administration has pledged itself. \We have taken the American business Inan out of the 1ed; we have saved: his bank and given it a sounder foundation; and we have unde1·taken to free him from the ravages of cut-throat competition,\ Senator By-rne stated. \The Admin- istration h.as stopped inflation and given the :people the soundest cur- rency in the world.\ The dark horse of the race wa:; Major .Amos Hoople, who polled a rather substantial total of 40 votes, the third highest number given to any man. Most of his support carne from the \doubtful\ juniors, among whom the Hoople-for-Happiness movement first raised its head. Fourteen seniors endorsed him, but only one underclassman responded to the call of \America Must Re- lax.\ The same juniors gave Earl Browder, the Communist candidate, ten of his 18 votes, and Thomas eight of his 26. President Dixon Ryan Fox achieved the distinction of receiving one vote for the Presi- dency of the United States. New Deal Inefficient, Male Charges for GOP \I charge the present administra- tion with fostering inefficiency in government, excessive expenditures and deliberate attempts to break down the economic system and con- stitutional form of government; of buidling up those things which tend to complicate government; and of bringing into play federal competi- tion in private enterprises.\ These wet e the words of Charles T. Male, assistant professor of mathematics, substituting for Con- gressman Frank Crowther and speaking for the Republican party in the second political address dur- ing daily assembly periods. \We will not know the result of this coming election next Tuesday night, Wednesday, or next year. You will experience the effects in forty years because the facts do not show themselves so quickly. The 1932 DemoCJatic platform pledged itself to reduction and economy and President Roosevelt to the reduc- tion of the budget. Instead, federal expE>nditures have increased from four billion to roughly eight billion in 1936.\ LOUIS WASSERMAN QUALITY MEAT MARKET 354 Broadway Through the Social Security Act, -CHARLES H. REEVES the present administration has rec- . · ognized the duty of government to I care for the unfortunate men and I women, unemployed and aged, who \ have been cast down by economic ~~H~ I By means of the Reciprocal I Trade Pacts the Democratic admin-J istration has attempted to break I down the 'baniers to world com- mel ce which played a great part in hatching the advent of the depres- sion. Not only do these pacts effect an increase in American foreign trade, they also greatly fm ther the cause of international peace. Finally, on the sco1 e of foreign policy alone, President Roosevelt CHARLES' (formel'ly Ed's) The official Union College bar· ber for the past 26 years. Asl• any uppel\Classmen they know. Four operatoi'S. Schenectady's greatest ba1·ber. Cor. STATE and B'WAY STUDENTS STYLISH SHOES for all occasions to fit all feet. $5.00 to $10.()0 Patton & Hall X-RAY FITTINGS 245 State St. WILLIAMS! • New o,vercoats that will keep you warm at the game. In this regard it is charitable to s.uggest that Mr. Roosevelt him- self may not understand the Am- erican tradition. Born and main- tained in economic security it is impossible for him to understand the economic problem of the masses, although he protests his friendship for the poor. He dis- cusses American business with the confidence born of inexperience. His principal business ventures were restricted ·to dealing in for- eign securities and German marks. Stephenson '37 in charge of the student Roll C'all workers who will conduct the canvassing in fratern- ity houses and dormitory sections. The workers in these units will be announced next week, he said. Sonny O'BriEn (beginning Saturday at the Club Petite) has scaled the heights oi :radio fame. First with RKO, then with Loew and finally with CBS :11etwork. A beautiful tenor voice, a real pe1•sonality, smiles, an<l what it taltes.-ADVT. j;~::m:m::::m::m::m::::m::m:::::::::::::::::mm:::::::m:m::::m::::::::::::::m:::m:::m:m::::::::m:::m:m:::mm All the styles that you'll see worn at the Yale Bowl, at the Princeton Stad- ium, at F r a n k I i n Field. W h e r e v e r University men are gathered. CLOVERLAND CREAMERY FOR PROMPT SERVICE PHONE 2·4265 919 STA.TE ST. SONNY 0· 1 BRIEN • Week Beginning Hallowe'en CBS-LOEW STAR • CHESTERFIELDS RAGLANS ULSTERS ~W~A~L~DO~R~F~T~U~XE~D;;;;O~C~O~. ~~ 1 !11 c L u :8 pETITE Ill Ill Ill from $19.50 to $50 See J()hn Gilmour-D. U. House TO HIRE New Full Dress, $3.75 New Tuxedos, $2.50 Dress Shirts, Collars, Ties, etc. We Also Sell Full Dress and Tuxedos WALDORF TUXEDO C(). 435 Broadway, Albany Phone 4-50 II ~ • m ;:: ::: m m ::: ::: ~~ Myr~~h~~;;~:~£nd No ~;:~:.~;~~~~1.00 ~~ m m ::: ::: ~f:im::::m::::l::m:::m:::m::m::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1 ·:::::::m:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::mu:~u::m:::;::::::::::::::::::::i~:~ •••UI •• ,IIIIII ... t•Un•tUIJIIIIIIIGIIUIIIUUII .. II•tlti•UII.Itl llllllllllflltiiUI•III\IIIUIIIIIIJIIUI.UIIIIIIIII ... U.IIIIII'IIIIIftiiiiU .. IU Jj.;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;=;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;o;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;o\1 Joseph's Stan Joseph Union '21

Page Four Ama·zon THE CONOORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1936 Off Tackle In P. L Encounter Purple Frosh Meet First Year Men Tontorrow G t Junior Class Elects · 8fll C · . Liffiton This Mm·ning: ' ------------·----- .. -- -----·--~- --- -------------- Union Gridmen Against Strong Williams' Eleven - ----------- <Continued from Page 1) 1' 11--~-::::::;;;;~~~~==~====~ Brown and Bill Thomas will alter- r li' nate in the threat position. Union For A ma Mater will utilize a 6-2-2-1 defense. By MILT BEDELL I Purple Injuries I There are six regulars missing from the 1935 Purple varsity which Union held to 43-ti last year. There is also a very distinct possibility that two others from that crew will be missing from the opening eleven tomorrow. Eddie Stanley, the elec- trifying little climax 1·unner and leading scorer in the East last sea- son, has ·been on the shelf with a bad knee. Al~o the report has it that Mike Latvis, who was the left end a year ago and who has shut- tled between baclt and end this season, is also on the injured list. There is not much joy in this for Nitchman since good backs are a d1 ug on the \.Villiams market. On the assumption that Stanley will not play the starting backfield Will •till get its full quota of \S\ men with Doug Stearns or Timking l•'ieldiug Smmtons, and Pete Strad- h'Y in the> tint quar·tet and Hank Slinge!lan d, Han!{ Stanton, and Pete Seay in reserve. It seen1s a,; though ll1~ chief requirement to make the Pur·ple backfield is to have a name beginning with \S\. It's too bad that they don't have merely names. They also constitute a very real threat when a pigskin 1s presented to them and is placed under one arm. Simmons, a 185- pound halfback, has supplanted Stanley as the chief ball carrying menace. It was Simmons who scored the Purple's touchdown against Prince- tun on a ::;ix-yar·d drive over tackle. We might pause to remind the pub- llc that tt was the only touchdown made through the Tiger line this yeat·. Last Satul'day he ran 46 yards off tackle to win for the Ephmen over Tufts, 6-0. The other back will probably be Duane, a blocker. The line is led by Captain Danny Lewis, a 195-pound center who is a power unto himself and who thrives on budily contact. Colman Running Guru·d Any Union backs planning excur- sions into the \Villiams backfield are hereby warned to keep a sharp eye out for Mr. Lewis. Next to him is Dick Colman, another veteran whom Whoops Snavely, the line coal'h, calls the best running guard in the East. John Jay, a 190-pound- er·, is the other guard. The tackles are Palmer·, 190 pounds, and Dick Chapman or Star!,, both of whom hit about 200. In the event that Latvls is on the sidelines, Phil Stearns and either Abberley or Bob Buddington will be the wings. The frosh football game with Gloversville, which was cancelled by the upstate school, will be played on November 1 at GloveJ'S- ville, This extends the freshmrut s!'.asou another week and stacks them up against one of the best teams in this section of the coun- try. The Union basketball team has been invited to participate in an exhibition game at the New York Hippodrome by Mike Jacobs via Jack Murray, manager of basket- ball for the Jacob entet·prises. The invitation has to be refused, how- ever, because of conflicting dates. Is everyone on their toes for the big pPp rally tonight':.' We are a.s- sm·ed that it wiU be one of the best in many yea1·s. If enough enthusi- lt.sm is shown the college will march down town, with adequate pollee protection, banners, placards and the band, Everyone be there-it will be good practicE\ for the rally before the Hamilton game, Stanley, spearhead of the Wil- liams attacl,, is promised to appear against the Union team when Pur- ple meets Garnet tomorrow. Stanley is the only one of a foursome re- maining at the New England school. .Mo:>ely, Salsich and Holmes-do you remember those names?~have left the fair walls and no longer remain to strike fear into their opponents. Not that the Williams backfield is particularly weak- by no means let us infer that. Here's how you might make some money. One of our boys thought it up while in Freddy Bronne1•'s class -(Ex Parte Milligan, page 22-re- member?)-You take Williams and I'U talte Union-to win. We will put up even money on the game. Now listen closely-! will bet that Union's total score doubled will be greater than \''illiam's score, mul- tiplied period by period. Wanta bet? glasses m·e Slingerland and Stan- ton. Both are hard driving runners and excellent passers. Slingerland is a rapid 150-pounder who passes in the Monk Meyer manner, on the dead run. Granted a dry field, it should be the best game of the local season. Williams is confident of victory, but they may be in for a rude shock before the afternoon is over. AMERICAN Al LAUNDRY Tile Most Perfect Laundry Work in the Capitol District Phone 4-3166 1030 Bal'rett St. QUALITY SHOE REPAIRING Reason.abcy :P1iced Phone 4-'7711 THE WALLACE COMPANY BASEMENT ~·----- ---·----- Uni()n Is Out To Protect Perfect Record; Game at 12 Donald U. Liffiton '38, of .Albany, was elected to the student council this morning by the junior class to replace Herman Greulick who has left Union. Liffiton is a member of continually routing for the team the Theta Delta Chi fraternity. He regardlesa of whether they are has played on the Union varsity playing or on the sidelines. It has. football team, earning his .Jetter one been this willingness to cooperate season. that has heLped the team to get as· far as it has. Announce Skidmore Dance Undefeated, untied, and unscored Most of th~ ,;curiug to daDe has --·-- upon. Not bad for any team and been done by the Frosh captain, The second of this year's series of certainly a record for the fresh- Sammy Harnrnerstzom. This 180.. Union-Skidmore Danes for mem- man eleven to boast about. Open- pound tow-headed quarterback has bers of the freshman. classes of the ·ing the season in a blaze of mud quickly made a reputation for him-· two colleges will be held at Skid- and glory, they outplayed the Mid- self by the way he never says die more Hall next Saturday, Novem- dlebury outfit fot· four long periods when carrying the ball. Many a ber 7 , Mrs. bixon Ryan Fox an- and emerged on the good end of time when another back would be· a 7,0 score. Then, not to be stop- content with what he gained, Sam- nounced today, ped, they went over to Troy last my would drive on for an extra The program for the afternoon Satu1·day afternoon and gave the yard or so until he was unable to and evening includes a tea dance, R. P. I. frosh the idea that they move an inc h. One realizes how dinner at Freshman Hall, and a were in a track meet instead of a important this has been to the Freshman play at night. football game. Scoring in every team when he looks up the number 0 period except the second, they ran of first downs which have been The J!larsity Starters up four touchdowns while holding made when an extra few feet have __ _ their own goal line intact, been needed. Williams 1J'nio11 What is responsible for this? Nugent-Busino, Ends / RE Lat:vis .............. Mulcare . There are two things. Their coach, · RT Tenney . , . . . . . . . . . . . . Chapin ' Art Lawrence, has done everything Larry Brockrnyer, fullback of RG Colman ..... , . . . . . . . . . Potts in his power to help the fellows, the team, does much of the line c Lewis , .. , ......... , .. Barton working- with them every afternoon plunging and smashing. Rugged LG Jay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Adams and giving all his time to improve of build, this square jawed fresh- LT Chapman ............. Ladue their prowe.ss and ab!lities. Second, man has proved himself one of the LE P. stearns ... , . , .. , , . . Lewis the fellows themselves •have had a plllars of the team as have Marv QB K' Am lot to do with the wonderful re-~ Rosen and Chuck Passe, the other LH zng · · · · · • · '· · · · · '· azon f h b kf' ld N Duane ... , . . . .. .. .. . Thomas ~~~:;. q-e~;:~~in;,' 0 ~~~~~ i~g~~~~~ !~~t ~~~~~:in°o ~a~~ ~fled 1 ~h~ ~n~ ~JJ ~~~~% ·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.· .. D~~~~~ new plays as soon as they are positions to perfection, smearmg handed out, the fellows evinced an many an end run before it could interest that shows their willing- get started. Lawrence was a bit ness to play and the joy they get undecided as to who would win out of it. From the last man on the positions but it is apparent the bench to the captain, they are that any indecision he may have Freshman Notice entertained has long since been dis- pelled. Kluge and Krull are mak- ing themselves felt at the tackle post.o anJ many a man has found it easier to dig a hole in rock than to try and make a hole through the tackles. Johnny Krull is a brother of varsity captain Charlie Krull who graduated last June, so great things are expected of him before he leaves the college. Era- mer and Lynn are at guards and have done a good job of blocking up the center rushes of the op- ponents. Both are heavy lads and have had much experience in high school. Burns, at the center pos- ition knows when to pass the ball and to whom to give it. This may seem a bit ridiculous to the reader but many a game has been lost be- cause of the Inability of the cen- ter to pass the ball, In modern football too much credit is given to the backfield men and too little to the line. Many people lose sight of the importance of the linesmen in opening holes on the offensive and in tackling on the defense. A backfield would look sorry indeed if it had no line, to help it and was forced to make its own holes for its ball carrier. The Union frosh line is exception- ally good in this respect. Time after time in the Middlebury and R. P. I. games the opposing run- Continued on page 5) UNITY-·NOBBS ADAM HATS $2.95 Freshmen! Tomorrow Is the Day of Reckoning. Have Your Pajamas On Hand. Attention Fraternities Get Your Pltonog'l'aph Records at a ·Large Disoount, Also Hundreds of Records at IOc Each, For Detals Call- \Hal\ Vandecar-Piti Delta Theta EAST INDIA lldylz#h 7HICKOK All freshmen who have not passed their swimming test are re- quested to report to the pool atten- dant as soon as possible. The pool will be open between the hours of three and five every afternoon ex- cept Saturday and Sunday. These swimming tests must be taken by all students. Shirtmakers Haberdashers 104 BROADWAY 2 Doors from State St. These srnart HICKOK Braces are made of fine Baby Buf- falo leather which cannot be matched for pliability and style. HICKOK Action-Bak permits full freedom and comfod. • • • • • • • • • WILLIAMS know football they do not the 1n smartest town may but know s p 0 t HERATH Open all Halloween ·~ I s I s OPPOSITE VAN CURLER Phone 2-4160 • • • • • • Plain $1.00, Braided $1.50 VI NICK'S MEN'S SHOP 467 State St. The line averages a fraction un- der 190 pounds an.d the backs about 173. Williams has been beaten twice. It absorbrd ifR yearly trim- ming from Princeton, which was entirely expected, and also fell be- fore Adam Walsh's Bowdoins, 7-0, a result that was not even consid- DE WITT'S LUNCH and TAP ROOM Home Cooked Foods Enjoy Our Fine Beverages 118 JAY ST. _II .~~~~~iliiiii;i; ~~·································································································· 1$ BE WISE • • • WINTERIZE NOW! 5 ered. Chief among the reserves who will bear the focus of the field Opposite City Hall PINE GROVE DAIRY, Inc~ 118 S. FERRY ST. SCHENECTADY. N. Y. E I II Leave Your Car With Us I I ~ 5 ESSO-SERVICENTER h COR. U~ION AND ; • PHONE 2-4342 Change T at Heavy Grease : : JAY STS. • ~ j I Refill Crankcase with Winter Oil I I 5 : Prepare Radiator for Cold Spell : • • • • II ,;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;i;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;::;;;::;;;;;;;;;::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:,s Iii •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 11111111 II ••.••••• IIJIIIII •••••••••• ••• •••• = ~ . . ········•·• Varf Wil1 Ketzme Seas01 Pres1 In the f afternoon'; with Willi last home son, the v< will stack ple squad up the nun the numbe outrun on mont and: tereci. a I Middle bur~ siight favc places, for great dist and as a 1 anced as t Will Williams mile COUrSI mile race : nectady, 1 capped b) much the Middle bur~ shorter co tor's recor1 hands of I ence of or Unlon-R.P. This comj not of ac: neverthele! must be o Union. The Dul strength 01 Dentons d colds they ever, the 1 of Frankl• ray of ho the past J era:ble ad:v vious dern• Hawkes, chalked ux: Ed Wells c :power and able to cor two or thrE ning well has been a the early f The rer chiefly so judged as Annese, I Myers ani :possibilitie: but have this year. Myers ani add to th1 Joe Annes coming in the next, r days and ' et'S, The mee activities final meet wee I!, Fl\'I Looking his cros.s- Ketz wills' the Williar noon ove course. Tl rather cerl proteges, 1 great strid in Garnet Santoro, number on consistent of certain1 Johnson a in a dead R.P.I., ani vorites ar( Hoffman. ~ defeated i1 the best ( come up in ing taken comparati1 a very sa hope it we freshmen, tucked aw their belts. Foe 'fhe Ka] first place field meet terday aft group gart to nose 01 Psi Upsilo The conlJl order is a! Kappa Phi Dl Psi Up Alpha Phi Sii Phi G: Delta· Sigma ChiP! Delta Lambe Sigma Alpha Kappa The indi available pres~.

THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1936 · -·pa,ge Five Mm·ning • Varsity Harriers Williams' Team To Perfect Recordof Frosh Meet Threatened by Purple '38, of .Albany, student council junior class to who has is a member of fraternity. He Union varsity ' his· .Jetter one 'l~·om·orrow (.Continued from Page 4) i : ners were stopped otl. the line of <$>>-~-----------------~scrimmage with no •g-ain as are- w • d H. sult of the fine linesmen's tackHng. Ketzmen m. ·UP orne Basl\:etball! I This feature has been one of the Season·, Frosh Out to real contributions that have put the frosh where they are today. Danee series of for mem- classes of the held at Skid- Novem- Fox an- afterneon a tea dance, Hall, and a ht. Union .... Mulcare ..... Chapin ; · ...... Potts ..... Barton ..... Adams ...... Ladue ...... Lewis Amazon .... Thomas .... Dennett ..... Brown Is the Your Records at Hundreds Theta Braces Buf- nnot be ity and tion-Bak and $1.50 i • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Preserve Clean Slate Coach Nelson w. Nitchman has Team work means a lot in foot- In the final event on tomorrow afternoon's four·-game program with Williams College, and in the last home meet of the current sea- son, the varsity cross-country team will stack up against a strong Pur- 1_ pie squad in an attempt to bring ' up the number of victories equal to the number of losses. Having been outrun on. two occasions, by Ver- mont and H.P.I., while having plas- tered a perfect-score defeat on Middlebury, the Garnet stands as a slight favorite to bring home the places, for Williams has lost its great distance runner, Gregory, and as a whole is not as well bal- anced as the home team. Williams Handicapped Williams, which runs but a four- mile course as compared to the 4.7 mile race as it is laid out in Sche- nectady, will be slightly handi- capped by this longer route, in much the same manner as was Middlebury, which also runs a shorter course. Howe-ver, the visi- tor's record shows a defeat at the hands of R.P.I., 17 to 38, a differ- ence of only two points from the Union-B.P.I. score last Saturday. This comparative scoring, while not of actual help in prediction, nevertheless shows that the Purple must be on about equal par with Union. The Dutchmen will be at full strength once again, unless the two Dentons do not recover from the colds they are now suffering. How- ever, the remarkable improvement of Frankie Myers lends a great ray of hope, for his running in the past few days shows consid- erable advancement over his pre- vious demonstrations. Captain Bill Hawkes, of course, is already chalked up for a first place, and if Ed Wells can add just a wee bit of power and stamina, he should be able to cop a place, among the first two or three men. Ed has been run- ning wen for his second year and has been a consistent fixture among the early finishers in every race. The remainder of the team, chiefly sophomores, can not be judged as to when they will place. Annese, Sheffer, Thomson, the Myers and the Dentons all have possibilities of running fine races, but have been fairly inconsistent this year. Of this group, Frank Myers and Sheffer are looked to add to the Union score, although Joe Annese, who runs in streaks, coming in last one day and first the next, may hit one of his lucky days and wind up among the lead- ers. The meet will wind up the home activities for this Fall, since the final meet is at Rochester next wee I!, Fl\'sh Look for Win Looking for another victory from his cross-country yearlings, Bill Ketz will send the freshmen against the Williams frosh tomorrow after- noon over the short two-mile course. The race seems to be a rather certain one for the varsity proteges, who have been going in great strides this season, their first in Garnet uniforms. Santoro, as usual, will be the number one man for Union, for his consistent firsts seem to be a thing of certainty. Next in line will be Johnson and Fisher, who finished in a dead heat last week against R.P.I., and then the following fa- vorites are Melewicz, Murray and Hoffman. This outfit, which is un- defeated in three meets, is one of the best distance aggregations to come up in a number of years, hav- Ing taken all of their meets with comparative ease. This may expel!· a very savory reputation, but we hope it won't be considered by the freshmen, until at least they have tucked away this final meet under their belts. INTRAMURALS II Football Field Meet 'fhe KaJ!pa Nu fraternity took first place in the annual football field meet on Alexander Field yes- terday afternoon. The off campus group garnered a total of ten points to nose out Phi Delta Theta and Psi Upsilon by fractions of points. The conlJ)lete list of the finishing order is as follows: Kappa Nu 10 Phi Delta Theta 9.500 Psi Upsilon 9.357 Alpha Delta Phi 7.500 Phi Sigma Delta 5.857 Phi Gamma Delta 5.714 Delta Phi 5.357 Sigma Phi 5.000 Chi Psi 5.000 Delta Upsilon 3.500 Lambda Chi Alpha 3.357 Sigma Chi 2.000 Alpha Phi Delta 2.000 Kappa Alpha .857 The individual scorings were not available when this issue went to pres~. issued the first call for all varsity ball and this tean1 has it. basketball candidates. P~actice will I With two victories and no de· s~rt Monday,,Nove;nber 2 .at two-. feats under their ,belts, the Garnet th:rty.. Practice wrll contmue at I freshmen are looking forward to t~1s time .. ~very day unless ot~er- I to-day:s game with an ardor that Wlse specdled. At th~ same tune I bodes HI for the Wllliuns yearlings. as the call for t~e vars1ty me-n was 1 We can not predict the outcome, issued Coach N1tchma_n also asli:e-d but we are sure of .one thing re- th~t all sophomore~ mterested in gardless of who wins. ifhat is this tr~mg out for candidate manager- -sportsmanship is something that sh1p of the basketball team report makes competition fair and above on the same date, board. If the Frosh win or lose Anyone other than van;;Hy men we are· sure they will display this wishing to use the court should quality in a manner tl1at will bring do so before two-thirty in the af- credit to the Alma Mater to whic!1 ternoon or after four. The varsity they belong and will help create will be dominating the court in a grea•ter feeling of friendly rivalry the intervening hours, between Union and Willi~s. • NOTICE TO The Faculty and Student BadY!\, We Are Serving a CHICI<i:~ DINNER SUNDAY~l :00-2:30 65c Please Make Reservations If Convenisnt HALE HOUSE For \Night-and·Day\ Smokers -A light Smoke! Even though you've been smoking through most of the day, and all through the evening, you'll flnd that your midnight Lucky- iastes as good as your Lucky at noon. For c clean taste, a clear throat ••• reach for a Lucky-,2.light smoke! Copnfaht 1936. 1'lio .Ame-rlta.il Tobacco Companv ¢ I - Swimming· Team Meeting Coaches Included in Guessing Game Ali candidates for the varsity swimming team are requested to attend a meeting- in the Trophy Room of the gym at 5:00 Monday The innovation in the past two years of attempting to pick the winning team in ~orne of the more important football contests throughout the counh·y is to be continued this year with the addition of two coaches, Bill Ketz and A1 t Lawz ence, to the nucleus of three men1bers of the staff, Bedell, Rathbun and Stewart. Yale-Dartmouth-Rathbun and ::>tewazt :oelect DARTMOUTH. Pitt-Fordham-AU on the nose for the PANTHERS. ---a--- Where Am thl' DI'lllllrs? Trustees of Amherst College voted $7,000 for the 40 new lamp posts to be installed on the campus next summer. Navy-Penn -Three students on NAVYy, coaches for PENN. Princeton-Harvard~The TIGERS all the way. Army-Colgate-We're staying with the soldiers. Nozthwestern·Mhme::;uta-Bedell ha:; the nerve tu ph;k NOHTH- WillSTERN, Notre Dame-Ohio State Bedell and Stew at t for the IRl::lH. 'Mass. State-Amherst-All AMHERST, but not :;o :;ure. Penn State-Syracuse-Rathbun for the latter. S.:M.U.-Texas- Lawrence and Rathbun for the MUSTANGS. Cornell-Columbia-Lawrehce and Stewart on CORNELL. WINTER STYLES for the COLLEGE MAN \Spa ide\ Woolen Coats and Mackinaws \Wet-N- Wind Proofed\ · Crepe Sole Shoes BEFORE AND AFTER THE GAME JOIN YOUR FRIENDS AT THE . UNION I'NN of Suedes and Scotch Grain • Built in Steel Shank 517 UNION ST. THE POPULAR SATURDAY NIGHT MEETING PLACE FOR UNION MEN 0 Ventilated Insoles For $3.50 GUERRA PHARMACY (LIEMANS 600 Urtlion St •• cor. Barrett Phone 2·9419 137 CE:-l\TER ST. ·1 Door·s fr·ont State St., Ft•cd C llcrnnn '26 lfs a Liqht Smoke! When Fun and Smoking Last Way Into the Night~~~·· On party nights - or whenever you do a lot of smoking- you'll fi11d that Luckies, a light smoke, are a comfort as well as a joy! For -since Luckies are a light smoke, there's no wear a.nd tear on your throat. Luckies wear well ... they·re the only cigarette that's \Toasted\ ... your protection against irritation. So tomorrow, or better, right now, reach for a Lucky- rich with the taste of fine centeroleaf tobacco. It's a good morning smoke with a clean, fresh taste. And it's a good night smoke ... easy on you ... gentle. It's never too late for~ light smoke ... never too late for a Lucky! * * NEWS FLASH! * * 82 years old-She Knows Her Pop1.1lar Music Mrs. Elizabeth Bowles of Uvalde, Texas, is a real\Sweepstakes\ fan. She writes: \I am 82 years old and this is tlte first tim<! I have ever won anything absolutely free, and am I pleased!\ C<>ngratulations, Mrs. Bowles. We're certain!yplcased, too, that you wen. Have ~ entei'ed yet2 Have you won your delicious Lucky Strikes? There's mu- sic on the air. Tune in \Your Hit Parade\ -Wednesday and Saturday evenings. Listen, judge, and compar-e the tunes- then try Your Lucky Strike •• Sweepstakes.\ And if you're not already smoking Luckies, buy a pack today and try them. Maybe you've been missing something. You'll appreciate the advantages of Luckies- a Light Smoke of rich, ripe· bodied tobacco • dt OF RICH, Rq,ODIED ~BACCO-\IT'S TOASTED\

' ; \ l ·'· Page Six THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1936 ; :(;a.vert Union '10 Wold Organizes Cheering W •ll p' ·h S d ' At St. Andrews University 1 reac un ay __ Secretary of Fedei\al Council Of Churches Is Union Graduate !Continued from page 1) hPard an injunction given to play- eJ s which I also heard at Fort hill a fmtnight ago: 'LESS COMMENT AND MORE PLAY' Dr. Samuel McCrea Cavert, Gen- \In some matches there are far eral ~ecretary of the F~der~I too many players eager to shout Coun~1l of .Churc?es of Christ m advice to their colleagues. Atnenca, Will de!Jv*':r the .sermon \Such loquacity might well be at. the ch~pel .set•VJP<'~ th1~ Sun-~left _to the spectatore who have I day at 11.15 odoclt. nothmg else to do anyway. I was Dr. Cavert is a graduate of Un- pleased to see underg-radmttPs in- i{)n ?ollPgP in th~ rb~s ~f ll\10. He lluuucing a novel element in this I !'·eceJved the Masters of Arts de- direct ion at University pat·k. gt:ee from Columbia Univer·sity in \Hailing from th~ other .side of 1 1.914 and the Bachelor of Divinity the Atlantic, they had evidently degree from the Union Theological had experience in college battle- Sor.ninary in 1915. St. Lawrence cries 01· whatever these weird in- College conferred the honorary de- cantations are called over there. gree of Docto·r of Divinity upon \They made a gallant endeavor him in 1928, and Union gave him to adapt these slogans to the new t.he same degree in 1935. environment. and the game was Served in Army · enlivened by organized college yells During the year following his every now and then. I think it is theological studies, D1•. Ca vert a tendency worth encouraging. tra veiled in the O!>lent on. a fellow- \Undergraduates qualifying for ship awarded by- the Union Theo- the vocal-encouragement service logical Seminary-. In 1918 he en- might be admitted to the stand listed and received the commission free.\ of first lieutenant in the United If the canny Scots take that last States Army. pat·agraph seliously, there should Practically the entire ministry be some loud 'battle-clies' at the of Dr. Cavert has been spent in in- I next home game. terdenominational vvork, through Sincerely, CALENDAR TomoiTow 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly, Speaker, Norman Thomas, So- cialist Candidate for President, Memorial Chapel. 12:00 m. --Freshman Football, Union vt:>. Williams, Alexander Field. 2:00 p. m.- Vart:>ity Football, Union vs. Williams, Alexander Field. Freshman Cross-country, Union vs. Williams. Varsity Cross-country. Union vs. Williams. Swtday 1.1 :00 u. 111. Sunduy Clw.pd l:lel v- ices, Dr. Samuel M. Cavert, '10, Memorial Chapel. 4.00 p. m.-Organ Recital, Dr. Eimer A. Tidmarsh, Memorial Chapel. M<Jnday 7:30 p. m.-Fraternity Stewards' Meeting, Student Activities Offices. Syracuse Pi·ofessors Here the Federal Council of Churches, JOHN S. WOLD of which he- became general secre- ~;;;;;;;;:;;;;,:;;;;;;;;;;;:;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ tat'Y in 1921. ;; Dr. Cavert is the author of \The Adventure of the Church\ and 1 ••se-curing Cht·ist ian Leader$ fo1 I Tornorrow\ and has co.JlalJorated in several other important volumes dealing with the problems of the r:nodern church. Professor Berry and Professor Blackburn of the Syracuse Univer- sity Engineering Department will visit Schenectady tomorrow morn- ing to inspect the civil engineering courses and equipment here. Be- sides their visit here, the professors will also make an inspection tour of the R.P.I. laboratories. KODAKS R~IOS FOUNTAIN PENS Expm't Repairing J. T. & D. B. LYOt-1 \Everything Pllotogra.ph.ic\ 2Sti State St. l'hone: 4-8647 @ 19J6, LlGGB'IT & M:YURS ToBACCO C.o. WELCOME TO UNION AND TO UNION•s FRIENDLY BARBER ACME BARBER SHOP 509 UNION ST. 2 Blocks Below the Campus t H ld Cooltburn, Amsterdam, The chape- N ewman Club Elects Officei'S Five Houses 0 0 · rones will be Mr. and Mrs. Douglas --- Dances After Game cameron and Mr. and Mrs. H. c. Tuesday, Oct. 27.-Charles H. ___ · Mitcbell. Reeves '37 and William W. Mulvey In celebration of the third home ---·O '38 were elected president and vice game tomorrow against Williams, F·rencb Club to Organize president respectively of the New- five fmternities will hold dances at __ _ man Club, Union's Catholic organi- their respective chapter houses. to- zation, at th second meeting in Silli_- mon·ow afteuwon and evenmg. T·he French ·Club wHl have its· man HalL The same two men were Delta Phi will hold the only formal tlmt meeting of the year on Tues- assigaod to draw up u constitution affair with the college orchestra, day night at 8 o'clock ·in Silliman and by-laws. . . the Garnet Goblins, furnishing the Hal'!. August P. Zabuesnic, faculty The speaker of the evenmg,. m- music, while Sigma Chi, Lambda sponser, will speak. traduced by the Rev. Fr. J. J. Fmn, Chi Alpha, Phi Sigma Delta, and chaplain of the club,, was Dr. Rob- AI hn Phi DE'Ib will hold small in- I £'rt F.:. Plunkett, da ectur uf the I f ~ 1 ictrola dances. I division of tuberculosis in the State 0 ~~! v uests of the Delta Phi DeJ?at tJue.nt of .Health, wh~ . de- Hou;;p ~vill bP: Janice Mishler, ~<'l\JhPd ht.s tcactJO:l~ tu ce>udttl,lHlo Schenectady; Eleanor Engel, Mont- Ill present-day Eu10pe. The em oil- 1 ... Melba Ann Fox Schenectady; ment of the club now ~umbers 35 ~~::;thy Bucksitt, El~ira; Eleano1· iCONiNELLY ~BROTHERS ;DAIRY, Inc., membet·s m good standmg. Nadler, Amstet•dam; Blanche Rey- .. o · · · · nolcls Schenectady; Anne Brown, A!llst 'erdam ·, Katherine Sawyer, vt·ate1·n•'ty l.\!tewards' Meeting· k r \' Schenectady; Phyllis Lance, Broo - Thez·e will be an important meet- ing of all fraternity stewards Mon- day night at 7:30 in the Student Activities Offi'ce. The subject of the meeting will ·be the proposed co-op- erative system. lyn; Barbara Brett, Belmont, Mass.; Har•riett Walker, Brooklyn; Ruth Dean, Glens Flails; Betty Drake, Newark, N. J.; Charlotte Meurs, Greenbush; Betty Dean, Glens Falls; Jean P&uling, Amsterdam; Jane Winegar, Buffalo, and Jean BOOK CENTER 20•1 NOTT TERRACE Han• You Read \Listen for a Lonesome Drum\ \Man the Unknown\ \Revolt on the Campus\ \Dru1ns Along the Mohawk\ All in Our Circulating Library Clark Witbeck Co. \Quality Hardware Since 1870\ 416-418 STATE ST. Schenectady, N. Y. Phones 4-4161 - 4-4162 Ji858 HAMBURG STREET PHONE 2-091'0 m:;~:';;m::i:::m::;;;;;;;;::::::::::::m:::m:::::ill HiMArERIALS ~Hi Ill ~· 0 N4 Ill ~~~\t\0 s s ~~ 1!1 G\.~ . !~ Ill ~LP~i ~j IIIC~ARLSON'Sill: We are distributors for G. E. Mazda Lamps, Staples, Floor Wax, Valdura Paints and Enamels, Pyrex Ware, \Universal\ Electrical Appliances and Cuttlery. We also have a large new assortment of Fire Place Fixtures. 11hs State st., 1006 Crane st.ii! I. . m Pltone 4·4700 Plwne 2·8316 m mcor. Stnte-Barrett Mt, Pleasant!!! m m 4~::\::::::::m::m:::::::::::::::::::::::::::i::::::m::m::m~:::::: ..• This ts the first cigarette I ever smoked that really satisfies me Not strong, not harsh and it has all the flavor and aroma you could ask for. That settles it • • . from now on~ it,s Chesterfield. • Del' Att Vol. LX. Garn« Spir] ByW: Purple I But l St' Riva Williams Is I I On Satu autumn Bnion 26 t the best SJ son to d! the play i second ha play of t came to· whelming mediocre were surp Nitchmani and that many thri encounter Union w minutes. scared, or ports abot and decep trotted ou and twice fast and some obi fell on it. who put end for s said that: too nifty sure that Two William In several they mov effortless!; the score bank nigl and buzze of the fl' doing cal ward beh line afte missed cl ently afte attempted right bac on a swe pass diag the end z• Union se Berkshire Latry Du Iiams' Ia: having sE hard ove third and This was Iiams co11 ing it up how the Union st: not as ba old \boot gteat pia; weak side line. A I ties on :E gave Unl yard line. scanty ya a bullet t ]}ut Billy and the with tim mainlng, place ki wide and Lo4 Bet wee no word: their blo· their tac regenera· Chapin' mouse-tr. removed back in nett wer posedly I with hi: young T thing of first ha!J of the fi he tool;. the No. yards to there it plunges Brownie looked b of the b Iiams c marches (C

