.~ : · ~ ~ - '. :1· · ~ : ... ·. ;; ~ - -: ' I ~' ~: : · . ~ ! ('~· ~ . . :;: : :·.• . ' · I· I I II ' · .. ~ ,) i-:======~t Complete Text of Dr. Fox'$ .Speech . On Page 2 I i I I , • . . . . ' .. .... . . · ... .. .ll ~ • .· ... . . ... ' . ,• ' .... 7-Y 4 l/ - ! ~~·. rr=~====-;1 • ·' • Ill. . . . , Number of Pledges Set at 134 Fm· First 'Two Weeks UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1936 PRICE FIVE GENTS Dr~ Fox Ann()Ulltes Only Huge Blueprints Can Prophecy · List of · Changes in Order to Come From Library Chaos Staff of Tea~hers Runni-ng for Cong1·ess Ten Appointments, . ::Ni11e He- .si~'ltations, Th1·ee Leaves, On.e Return l11dml.ed · Ne~v Instructor :L~1ter \Is it 1 eally as much of a mess as it look:;? \ we asked one of the stu - dent workers who were busy car- rying books to the ba:;ement of tl::e l · ibrary. \Wur:;e!\ he groaned, \Look!\ · And he cautiously picked up a pile . of volumes. Immediately two 01 : three piles lying ncar began to tot- ter, and in spite of the exertions of · nearby workers, the books, hastily Fiedler, Hatfield, P. A. Smith, · piled by hurrying workmen when h the alterations on the building l\101seley, Palermo; Srnyt ' . started, tumbled into a heap, hope- Van Avery Leave lessly jumbled. \You gotta pile 'em before you can sort 'em,\ the student growled. · ?J , esid.ent Dixon Ryan Fo:::x an- W•l wondered how anyone would nou.nc-Ed twenty-four changes in the · ever get anything done there. The teachi.ng- staff, at the fil\st mEeting main floor of the familiar old build- of 'the faculty last night • . \'17hi<!h in- ing looked as though it had been eluded nine resignations, th:ree turned into a second-hand store. leaves of absence, ten appol.ntrnents, · Where once had been the tables one return from leave-of-aj},sence, and alcoves there was a mad heap and one appointment to be, raade of chairs and deslts and books, with la!e1 in the year. a few lighting fixtures and book- Or. l<'ox annuonced the . reslgna- case sections thrown in for good tion . e>f: measure. In the very center of the W~l1iam Fiedier, Jr . , . Jv.I. S. In floor, a black metal standpipe, so Chemistry, to accept a:ppoh1.tnent · much st:ggesting a ste~m.ships fun- will! th€ Cyanide Compan · y, . Pitts- nel that someone had labled it in buql:t... 1 chalk, \S. S, Queen Mary\. We G. :Elliott Hatfield, .A.. M., Assist- lookE'd up. The glass was gone ant Professor of PhysLcal Educa- . from the skylight and the colored tion C Coach of Varsity F'oo1:baU and . glass stars in the dome were visible Ba.seba:l1) to become DirEctor of through the dust. A welder up near Athletics at New York . State Colleg-e for- T-eachers in Albany. Regis Michaud, Jr., A . :M . • Instruc- tor h11. F'rench during the absence of .Allsist:ant Professor Rowlm.d :Mason My-er:s, to become Inst r uct.o r in Ftench at Lafayette CoUeg:e, Philip · Edward Mosley. A.. M., Ph. D., Instructor in History all d .Absent on Leenve during 1935-36, to become .As.sistnni Professor of Histozy at Co:r·nell University. .Anthony James Palenno, M.. S., in E. E., Ph. D., in E. E. Inst.I : ucto-r in EIEctr · lcal Engineering, te>- become head of the Department of Ph:';l'slcs att d Nathamatics . at St. Francis Col- lege _ 3.rooklyn), Geo r ge Bernard Raser, A., M., Ph. D.,. Instructor in French to bec:ome InstMJctor in French at ·tile U'nl~ers­ ity- oof Rochester. J?!Lil!p AlleJton Smit!l., A.. :M .• In- struetor in English, to beco:me In- str · uetor in English at Harvard Uni- ve-rsity and pursue graduate- wotk. .:Ee»ward McGaw Smyth, .A. :M · ,, Ph. D . , l:nstructor in History t<> become In....sh:-uetor i n History at tfie l.Tnlvers- lty of Califomia. .Dvvight Van .Avery, IL M . , Assist- ar.t Professor of Engllsla to l:Jccome Chair!!lan of English: in the Senior and Junior High Sch~ols ~f Ma.s- se . na, New York. · Leav.es Of Absen~ Be also announced t.l!e leaves of absence of: Edwat:d Linus Carroll, ..A, M., In- st.rudor• in English and Dlt,ector of D lunatics, to pursue , graduate WoQrk at Columbia Uni-versity. Ernest Mayfield Ligo3l, A.. M., B. D., Ph. D., Assistant Professor (Continued on Page 6) ----0 , ---- Finds Revolt Sec1.·et ~oseley, Bach: From Ba)knns, Says lt's Easy Way to Leave Bttd La.nd. The South Section Case -Or the Missing Leak The south section of the South College dormitories is the only residence hall rented out by the college which has not been renovated. That is, not renovated by the college. One of the dorm residents, George Krayem '36, found it necessary last year to hook up an elaborate drainage system from the ceiling of the third floor lavatory so that the drip- ping water from the fourth floor shower would least dis- turb a man who had some busi- ness in the lower lavatory. His efficient contraption put up in the early part of 1935 is composed of a cylindrical cookie can, two long chemical tubes and several lengths of wire . It still serves its purpose carrying fourth floor drainage to a convenient hole in the third floor. South section occu- pants invite Union College stu- dents to see this mal vel of Epi- curean ingenuity. Many Landmarks Undergo Repairs Library Changed Most, Dorm Rehabilitated, Theatre .Given Extra Facilities A general refurbishing of the Union College .campus greeted the eyes of returning students thi,s week, as repair and construction work on the campus is being com- Friday, Sept. 18.-Although he pleted. The College Library, the didn' . t visit Russia or Spa!ll. dut'ing Mounbe · banks Theatre, and the Old t:E:le fifteen months he spe11t abroad, Gym :ii>orm have been extensively Dt· . Philip Mosely t.olci a C<Jncordi- renovated, and smaller repairs have . e:IJsis reporter tonight !beat · hE has been made to many other buildings . lear-ned a lot about l'eV()lutions, at · :i · 'l'he Library, the most imposing least the Macedonian ones_ Mace- job on the summer schedule, re- d.oJLians revolt, he saidp beca.use It is 'tains little but the familiar circular tlJe easiest way to get out of a shape. 'l'he basement, long unused, · r-atber- poverty-ridden co1.1:nt ry. · · is now filled with bookstacks. The It is almost a fo-nn.ula, :he sai~. ground floor has .been fitted with One revolts, is escortEd safely out sound-proofed offices, new circular ~>of t:he country by the goverllment, desks, and a new lighting system. a:.ncl is supported ilL s<>rne more In addition, an air conditioning sys- pieasant country such as · France or tern has been installed. England by a revolutlona1:y society. The Mountebanks Theater was A.lready an authorit::y on Russian supplied with two new dressing h !s \tory Dr. Mosely spe11.t :ni1.1:ch of 1 ooms and lavatory facilities in the his stay in Europe In soc::iological basement. In the auditorium, an l\esEarch in the prindpal · E:m·opean entirely new stage was built , and co1.1:nt rles. He \speclallzc-Ed\' in the many of the pieces of equipment E;:!alkans, since it ·is .there that the were moved to more convenient tra-ditional forms of peasant life, a positions. New wiring was also fl'ltitful field for the hls-tol\inn still installed in parts of the theater. flourish almost unchanged . Old Gym Dorm, now used for a He spent much time ill Bosnia, freshman dormitory, was entirely 'Transylvania, Macedt>nla, and Cro- redecorated, and new closets and t:la. Rumania proved ve:ry illterest- a new heating system installed. ing- because of the · prevnl~mt poli- Immediately in back, reaching to ~leal tension there; t11e i.nt:rtgues . of Dt·. Edward Ellery's house, a set :Magda Lepescu, the . anti-Semites, of new garages has been built. The and tpe Peasant Party pt\''Vide an South College yard, for some time atr:n(}SJ}here of strain v.rili le King the college mud-hole has been .Ca..:roi sits on the li<L Carol, Dr. paved and curbed. Mosely thinks, has a vieak and lazy Roofing · On many buildings was .:st!\ea.k but is also amazing-ly dever repaired or 1 • eplaced, and other in some of his political and eco- buildings were painted inside and nomic p:1aneuvers. out. the ceiling wa!; making yellow sparks float downward. Under the balcony on the cast side of the I'oom there were new offices partitioned off. We could see, through the plate glass win- dows, people -talking and pounding typewnters inside, but not a soun•l of thls penetrated to the main floor. Then we went down the newly- constructed stails to the basement, with its · rows of steel shelves, wheve student workers weze hurrying 11;bout with armloads of books brought from the third fioor by a dumbwaiter . Fina.Jly we found Mr . Webb. \Our imagination is pretty good,\ we said, \but we can't seem to foresee how the place will look.\ \It takes more than imagination,\ he told us, and led us into the of- fice to show us the blueprints. Soon we began to gain an idea of how the library would loolt in a few weeks. The pipe in the center, to . be concealed later by a bookcasE', is the outlet of an air-conditioning apparatus wh1ch shuld be keep evE'ry inch of the room · comfortable. The skylight will be reglazed with opal glass and nine powerful floodlights above it will provide a diffused illumination for the entire main floor of the library. Separate lights will be necessary on the bal- cony. Fraternity Pledge List Reaches 134 Present Total, Though Below Last Year's, Well Exceeds 1934 and 1933 Ma1·k The number of men pledged to tz aternitles by midrught yesterday :;.nowed a decr·ease !rom the num- oeJ ' pledged at the same time a year ago. Although the present total oi .L<s4. sinks be10w the reco1 d mak of 1 o:.t at tamed by fTaternities last year, thiS year · s number compar · es ,avorabty wttb the 114 obtained in .<~d4 ana 116 in 1933. L>e1ta Upsllon was far in the lead •n the number of men pledged, list- mg a total of 17 neopnytes. Ueita Upsilon pledges are: Leon- ard Bul), Campbell Hall, L. I.; Bur- dick H. Brittm, Bayonne, N. J.; Walter Fallon, Schenectady ; Chris- topher Fahy, Newport, R. I.; Leo .Mmkin, Jr., Albany; William Nu- gent, Schenectady; H.obert Sammet, .<~ew Haven, Conn.; Charles Passe, 1:-'1ttsfieJd, Mass; Lawrence Brock- my-er, Scotia; Bw·ton Olmstead, .:::lcnenectady; Dayid Hayner, Still- Wdter; l!.;ugene Fink, Schenectady-; Lindsay Gotf, Piattsbw-g; Robert . .t<u:rman, Schenectady; John Stei- dle, Oneonta; Will1am Gormley, Schenectady; all of the class of 1940 and Wyman Hitchcocl>, Cambridge, o, the class of 1939. r The pledges of Bet.a Theta Pi are: J~nn Ko~.·ull, Lynbrook, L. I.; Robert O · Connell, Binghamton; <..:hester Robinson, Yonkers; Thom- as Mulcahy, Hartford, Conn.; Leo .Mun·ay, Schenectady; William Wit- beck, Schenectady; Walter Shaw, North Twy ; Gail Hoffman, Plain- !ield, N. J.; John Wright, Port Jer- vis all of the freshman class; and Dan Draman of Greenwich, of the c1ass of 1939. Eal'l E. Cummins Dr. Earl E. Cummin:;, profe:;;;or of econom1cs at Union, again has his hat in the political ring, this time as the Democratic candidate tor Congress. Having passed last · !'uesaay s primaries unopposed, he zs gtramg his loins for the long nght that w ill end in November. vv ith Dr. Charles N. Waldron, D t. Cummms ran for the City Council Jast year . Neither was elected . Announce Program For Mountebanks ·'Winte1·set,\ \Inspector Gell- eral,\ Two of Four 1936-37 Plays to Be Approved Countries Discarding Democratic System Tried It When Too Young, English Principal Says At 142nd Annual Opening Monday, Sept. 21.-Almost 1,000 students, fac: ·• : ty mem- bers and officials of {j nion College attend·t!d the cere- monies opening the 14~nd academic yea1· of the college in the colorful exercises which took place this morning in the Mem- orial Chapel. John 1\lurray, principal of University C0llege, Exeter , England, joined with President Dixon Ryan Fox, entedng his third year as head of Union College, in deliv . ering a --- - - -- - - - -<8>double-banelled exposition of tb.e Union Represented At Harvard Event Fox, Faculty Members Speak For Union at Tercen· tenary Fete dangerous cn~ls in which the world ' s democracies find them- selves and who can be the \sav - iours of our free institutions . \ Similarity in Thought The opening addresses by the hvo heads showed remarkable similar- ity in thought , both men consid ~ r­ ing the problem of education under democracy fzom their respect iv e places in English and America.n --- societies. Union College joined with the Principal Murray attributed Ger - world's important academic instltu-, many's and Italy's abuse of qernoc· tions in recognizing the Tercenten - racy to the fact that both countr-Ies ary of Harvard University during 1 had adopted systems of propo . r- the past two weeks when President tiona! tep1esentation at a time Dixon Ryan Fox represented Union whE'n they were not yet ripe for at the Commemorative Exercises, democracy. and when four members of the col- Dt>mocrac Introduced lege faculty attended the confer- Y ence · of arts and sciences at Cam- \The propaganda-men,\ he said, bridge, Mass. \ claim that they have tried o1.1:r The Mountebanks Executive 1 d 1 democracy in their balances, and The officia faculty e egates have found it wanting. Not so lon~r Committee met last night in Silll- from Union were Dr. Douglas W. ago the '\orld was c · ordl'al an-d · man .tlall and tentatively selected a c b 11 · t t f f ·• amp e ' assJs an pro essor 0 unanimous in its favor. In 1870 re- program of four plays which they government, Dr. Harold A. Larra- will present to Mr. ~dward L. Car- bee, professor of philosophy, Dr. united Italy adopted a liberal con- l oll, director of dramatics who will stitution on the model of Englan<l . b 1 Bertrand M. Wainger, as ststant In 1919 the We1'rnar Constt ' tutt'on be a sent-on- eave this year, tomor- f E I ' h d D VI d I ' OW morning at 10 o'cloclt. It is . p ; ofesRso~ 0 1 ng IS ' ant •r.f a - introduced Ger · rnany- to the forms expected that at tomorrow's meet- lmlrh ~Jans ty, assocla e pro e:;,or and devices of modern democracy. mg, also in Silliman Hall's lounge, of P ysJcs. \ .. . Both Italy and Germany ap- uennite action will be talten on tne Dr. Conant Greets Fox propriated from a very different U13ti-37 program. President Fox was received at country the end-result of a proces s The first play of the season will the Commemorative Exercises last many centuries old. Neither had be directed by Miss .Miriam Doyle · , \vednesday by President James B. the patience to recapitulate the producing director Rowland Steb- Conant with the other colleges and stages through which English oins, producer of \The Green Pas- university heads from all over the · democracy had passed In its long tures ·· and other plays. Mr . Steb- world. The college's officia' greet- and stormy growth. bms is donating the services of his ings to Harvard read as follows : \They seized on- democracy on its director for th1s play to his Alma \ Greetings: Recognizing the outward forms and modes, witho·ut Mater. Miss Doyle directed, among great public significance of the having earned It, as if political others, \Pursuit of Happiness\ for- Three Hundredth Anniversary of consummations can be had wlth()ut Mr. Stebbins . the founding of Harvard College, paying the price. They- tried to The director for the other two or the trustees and faculty of Unioll telescope the centuries, defying College have accepted Your l ·nvl· ta slow-footed Time in one brief crea- three plays which the Mountebanks - tl . on to be repre ·ented at the Com ti\'e outburst of extreme modernity. will present this season . has not yet \ - been chosen. Several candidates memorative Exercises on Septem- . . . So much new wine from a dis- are being considered, nowever, and ber the 16th,. 17th, and 18tJ;l. 1936, tance has burst the old b<:>ttles. there may be a different director and have des1gnated as thetr dele- \It is good to initiate good chosen for each play. gate President Dixon Ryan Fox, things: but in choosing models · It The plays tentatively decided 1 L .. L. D., who has been cha1g~d is best to know one's century.\ upon are \Whistling in the Dark,\ ' wtt~ the personal c~nyey~nce of Dr. Fox in his addrE'ss reiterated a mystery-comedy; \The Wind and I th~zr ~reetmgs an_d . fehCJtatl~ms . . one point he has emphasized since the Rain\ a play about college Umon Colleg_e JOms heart~ly _w1t~ he assumed the presidency of life; \Winterset\ the winner of the all other Amencan academiC msh- Union. \We are hoping,\ he de- 1936 Critic's prize in . New York this tutions in gratitud·e for the benefi- clared, \that Union College grad- year , a play which is being made cient precedents so early ~nd _so uates will take a larger part I ll especially available to the Mounte- often set by Harvard Umverstty official life than have American banks through the services of Bar- and fn the corifident hope of its coJ.lege men as a whole; towa r d rett H. Clark; and Gogol's century .continued leadership in the ad- that end, in part, we hope to de- old Russian comedy \The Inspecto . r I vancement of learning. Signed, velop our courses in our courses In General.\ Secretary of The College.\ government. . . . Wherever our -----------------------------. men go they can be public-minded Faculty Has Far-Flung Vacations, But \Nothing Happens'' to- Bronner or self-minded. We earnestly hope they wtll be public - minded. \It is conscious preparation for the public-minded which can light the face~ of American yout.ll, as loyalty to a program is lighting the faces of youth across the sea. \ Freshmen pledged to the Phi Del- Union College's faculty, although spent his summer in paris, Ger- ta. Theta fraternity are: William it included a number of stay-at- many, Austria, Bavaria, England , Murray Interviewed Biber, Evansville, Ind.; Albert homes, ranged far and wide this motoring also through Wales. Rus- Sunday, Sept. 20.-The sug-gestion Hould, Glen Cove, L . I.; Eugene summer, studying, traveling, or just sell A . Hall went to Michigan, and that Adolph Hitler, through his recuperating. The Union professor to the University of Wisconsin, policy of labor camps and strict Ames, Hartford, Conn.; John Gard- was a familiar sight anywhere this where he was a member of the regimen for students, may be lnad- ner, Hartfozd, Conn.; Charles side of Nebraska or Vienna. Board of Education. vertently helping democracy-, vvas Bl ockner, Lindenhurst, L. I.; Maurd- So widely scattered were they Of those who worked, Dr. Patter- made this afternoon by Principal ice Tidbal , Schenectady; Donal that for two of them, Dr. Philip E. J h M f th U . ' t C I Waite, Watertown; John Cullings, . son H. French was a member of the o n urray o e · mverst y o- Watertown; Harlen Carson, Lewis; Mosely and Augustus P. Zabuesnlc, President's committee on Adminh;- IE'ge, Ex ete r, England. Ri h d W'll' S h t d Paris was the only common ground trative Government, working on In an interview in the Pre~iclent's c ar 1 lams, c enec a y; where they could meet to have Garden, M1·. Murray sa1'd that s;nce G d Conr d Duanesbu g problems of reconstruction. Dr. ~ or on a· • r · lunch together. James w. Mavor worked at the class lines were so rigidly drawn as . Phi Sigma Delta with ten pledges H. Laurence Achilles and Charles Marine Biological Laboratory, at to obliterate any semblance of listed: Herbert Bernseld, En _ gle- T. Male visited Quebec and Mr. Wood's Hole Mass and also at- democracy in Germany, the new wood, N. J .; George Alper, Rtvet Male Jat <' r toured New Brunswick., tended the Harvard Tercentenary mE'thods of N : 'IZi education may be Head, 1;... !·; Isadore So~lun, .Albany; Dr. Egbert K . Bacon vacationed in conference on Arts and Sciences as welding the people together into a JGalck ~b~llnl o·wwit~l·l~atsltEill;tJ'oe BHerlg, ~ew England and Augustus H.dFiox I a member. Dr. Peter I. Wold work- more hornogent!oU.::>, under:;tandlng ovet sv1 e, 1 1am ps em, o y- m Cleveland Anthony Hoa ey d . f whole . oke, Mass.; Melvin Rosen, Jamaica, fished Lake J~nny and Dr Geor~e 1 e ' ll:s 1 1 ~ ormebrl summf . erst,honAcom- · Th' L I . St 1 B 1 J · · L ' · - mumca wn pro ems 01· e mer- IS cannot bE' accomplished · ., an ey ec ter, ama1ca, ' I DT. Kellogg went through Vermont I' T 1 h d T 1 h without discipline and drudgery, he I. ; Nathan Paul , Schenectady; Irv- and New Hampshire staying two 1 ccan e eDp oEne anE D el egrapk said, nor can any eduration of any ing Zweig Nass u I k t G t Ch b' I 1 d I ompany. r. rnesL . a e wor - k' b ' a ·., . we~ s a rea e eague san s, ed, as usual, on his petm'iias, in the md e e:xempt. from lt. No one Theta Delta Chis pledges are: Mame. . botanical ardens of Michi an Uni- ever subJects himself to drudgery George Schall, Floral Park, L. I., The Adtrondaclts saw Professor . 't ff t .· t N b g k I and thu~ th('> di~cipline of a rigid Fred Burns, Alexandria Bay; P_aul ~aymond M. Herrick, and Dr. velsl y, a ~r ~ llp , 0 e ras a. I educational policy Is required. Hayner, Cohoes; ~a s on H~tchms, Charles F. Rourke climbed .Amper- Dr: Vladtmtr RoJanslty worl~t'd 1 The new Nazi educational sy..s!em IUbany; Howard Ricard, W!lmlng- sand Mountain. Frederic A. Wyatt on hts boolt on quantum mechamcs. is almost an about face for Ge · r- ton , Del . ; Oharles Hodder, Albany; went to Binghamton, Worcester, Dr . Job'1 N. Vedder spent his va- many , Mr Mu . rra~ · declared. Accus- A.lfrcd Case, St._ John~ville all fr~sh- Boston, and New Yo1k City, in be- cation recuperating in SchenE'ctady,: tomed L :• ... e the war to r~gard men; an~ L:oms Maples, Norwrch, half of the College Placement J?u-1 1 where a great many others stayed,' English culture as effete. the l\>itJ.ce Conn., a JUmor. reau, but he says his real vacation and seemed to have at least amus-1 surprised German.; have been Phi Ga~ma Delta announced: will come during the winter skiin_g ing times. But for Frederic L. watching the Briti s h system closely (Contmued on Page 6) season. Augustus P. Zabuesmc Bronner, \nothing ever happens.\' j ever since .

FOUl' Dutchmen Gridders Ready To Avenge Middlebury Tie Garnet Fh~st Stringers Show Promise; Thomas Good Prospect With the first d!UOh but four short days away, the Union varsity football team is this wcelt winding up preparations and practice for what loolts now to be a fairly prom- ising season, Most of the old rivals are back, and head coach Nels Nitchman is more than eager to avenge some of the serious defeats· adn1inistered to last year':s medi- ocre outfit. Having held :;teady and hurd practice se:;~1ons for two Wt:Jck~, the ~quad is 10. fair physical condition an<.l :should be ·ready for the gawe with Middleburr on Sat- urday at home. Scrubs Bea.ten Climaxing -last weelt's strenuous practices, the \varsity\ romped al- most at will over a much weaker reserve team on Saturday morning, running up thit1:y-two points in about an hour of scrimmage. ln the backfield were Ernie Brown, co- captain and triple-threat man; Billy Thomas, diminutive sopho- more who was responsible for many of the tallies made by last yea! 's freshman eleven; Jake Ama- zon, blocking back of thc fre.shn1an tean1; Jack Smith, who has im- proved greatly in his style of run- ning and passing and who is the heaviest man ot the comparative light backfield. The line was com- posed of Barton, center, Adams and co-captain Potts, gu..ards, Gatchell and Ladd, tackles, and Campbell and Fa.rr, ends. The first touchdown came after about five minutes of play on a ten- yard run by Thomas, and six-yard gain by Smith, followed by a forty- yard romp by Brown. The next tally was gained after eight runs by alternating Brown, Smith and finally Thomas. But Hve plays were needed to produce the third tally, and after that it was straight football again which produced the last two S<:ores. Thomas and Brown demonstrated to perfection their ability to skip through a broken field, while Smith showed consider- able improvement in his charging. Dennett, in the reserve baektield, tos~ed some fine aerials, and al- though his mates didn't show any flashy maneuvers and in fact in no way compared to the ability of their opponents. Dennett appealed to have the best arzn on the squad and may appear in the varsity back- field for that reason. Line Posts Barton at the present Is the most logical man for the pivot post, al- though he is being pressed by Hatch whose weight would be con- siderably helpful in the center posi- tion. Potts will probably fill in one guard post, while either Adams or Riggs, whose hip injury is :slowly healing, may bold down the other. Baker and Mu.lcare, sophomore \watch-charm\ guards, will px·ob- ably be on reserve fO>r either a cen- ter or guard position. Gatchell, whose special helmet is expected any day, and either Ladd, Brown, or Chapin will fill in tackle posts, while Campbell and either Sam Farr or Bob Controy will probably cavort at the wing positions. All the team now stands, there is much room for improvement and Nitchrnan and Nelson will devote the week to iron out the evident de- fects. The team is in fine mental condition, and although Controy and Riggs are now bothered by in- juries, it is felt that they will be ready for Saturday's game. Middle- bury last year played Union to a tie, hence both teams will have a definite aim to fulfill on the grid- iron this year. Use of Gym The gymnasium floor having been reftn.ished, it is necessary that a strict observance of the rules per- taining to its u.se be adhered to. The wearing of clean rubber soled shoes is required of all. Violators of this rule will be per- manently excluded from the use of the facilities. The swimming pool wlll be open from 3 p. m. to 5 p. rn. every week- day except Saturday. Heads Varsity NELSON W. Nl'l'CHMAN Yearling Gridde1·s Show 1 Speed, Weig-ht, Finesse After less than a week of skull practice and the execution of the fundementals, Coach Art Lawrence will proba:bly send his highly prom- ising freshman eleven against the varsity reserves tomorrow after- noon in their first scrimmage of the season. 31 hopefuls reported fo1· practice last Wednesday and al- though several of the positions are still wide open, Art has decided on a probable lineup for the opening clash with the Middlebury frosh on October 10. Most of the emphasis has been placed on blocking with the backs I walking through their plays. As there has been no actual scrimmag- 1 1 ing to date, the true worth of the yearlings is not available, but sev- I era! of the men have shown prom- 1 1 ise. Sammy Hammerstrom, Larry Brockmyer, and Chuck Passe have I stood out especially in the back- fieltl. All are real triple threats ' with Hammerstt on having the I greatest potentialities. Floyd Deck- ro will probably complete the back- field. Good Reserves On the line Lawrence is using Fred Bw·ns at center, Bill Lynn and Lou Kramer, at guards, Johnny Krull and Augie :Kluge at tackles, and Bill Daly is pairing with Ed Busino at the wing posts. Bill Nu- gent, Albert Halavin, John Coulter, and Dick Nevius have also shown promise on the line. Marvin Rosen and Jack Quinau will also see plenty of action in the ball carry- ing department. Although it is too early to make an accurate prediction concerning the possibilities of the yearlings, it can be safely said that at p1·esent the future is indeed rosy. The players are considerably heavier than last year's eleven and as a whole seem to pack more exper- ience. Best of all, the players are running through their plays with enthusiasm and with a few scrim- mages under their belts the fresh- men :should be able to give the var- sity some real opJ)<lsition. Lawrence F:l'osh Coach Appointed this summer as coach of the freshman football, baseball and hockey teams, Arthur C. Law- rence starts his third year on the coaching staff of Union College. He began coaching here in the fall of 1934 as line coach under G. El- liott Hatfield. Last year he direc- ted the extensive Intramural pro- gram as well as assisting Hat eld, coached the freshman hockey squad and the yearling baseball team. He will continue his work with the intr•amural program this year also. ---0--- Frosh Spm·ts Reporters Any freshman Interested in writ- ing sports for the Concordiensis should call the Sports Editor at the Delta Upsilon House as soon as possible. WELCOME TO UNION AND TO UNION·s FRIENDLY BARBER ACME BARBER SHOP 509 UNION ST. 2 Blocks Below the Campus THE CONCORDIENSIS, T.UESDA Y, SEPTEMBER 22, 1936 Tennis Regulations 1. All players MUST wear TEN- NIS SHOES with soft pliable soles. (Basketball and other types of shoes m·e not accept- able). 2. Students and Faculty only shall be permitted the use of the courts. 3. Doubles should be played whenever possible so as to in- sure use of the courts to the maximum number of players. 4. If persons are waiting to play, both singles and doubles matches are to be permitted to finish their set before va- cating. In the event that the set goes to deuce, play shall stop at once. 5. The tennis courts will close on week-days at 6:00 p. m. 6. Play on Sunday shall be re- strirted to the hours of 1 p. m to 5:30 p. m., and all players must be dressed in a CLEAN WHITE COSTUME. 7. Workmen engaged in repair- ing oz· maz kmg the couz ts a:·e to be permitted to complete their task before play can start. 8. The caretaker shall be sole judge as to the use of the courts after rainy weather. 9. Children of the Faculty Mem- bers shall be pernutted the use of the couz·ts 1f any a1 e vacant but NEVER to the ex- clusion of the two above named groups. 10. Use of the indoor court on the b'J'mnasium will be z e- sel wd for the var.-ity ~quad when inclement weather piO- hibits their practice outdoms. 11. Violators of the above rule;, will be denied the privileg-e of using the courts. All-American Nitchman and Lively Interest Nelson Creating 1936 Eleven • zn i> --------- ------ &y HYMAN A. ENZER , 30 and both with thorough knowi- Twin spi·rits is the way Nelson W. edge of the sport they are teachi!1g, Nitchman and Walter J. Nelson through study as well as practice, ought to he identified. Even the1r aze making a new Union football names have a .unique way of .prov- squad. Their first season is to speak . ing their inter-alliance. Nl~chman for itself, but without regard for is head coacll of football thzs year, victories or losses, they have the hi::; first year at the head of the I confidence and respect of their men. vm•sity eleven . since he began N 1 . authoritatively consider- couching a.i'ter h1s graduatiOn from 1 e ,on, h k . Union in UJ30. Nelson is the new I cd one of the best football, oc. e~. assistant football coach who will and· b~:;eball players ever tmnefl assume former Coach G. Elliott's I out at Middlebmy, played those place as director of the Union var-1 three sports for a total of 11 years, sity baseball team and who will , h coach the vaorsity hockey sextet. \ Lzne Coac Both men are starting one of the modt important and perhaps the most interesting athletic seasons 1 L'mon Cullege hu~ had in 1 eccnt I ~·c.,ro:;. They arc looltcd upon with 1 nopeful anticipation this fall by hundreds of Union alumni and hun- <lreds of l'nion students. They both I shoulder some big responsibilities. Sport authorities and athletic en- thusiasts marl{ Union College an uncertain quantity. Uncertain, per- haps, as to its degree of success in football, baseball and hockey. Bas- ketball, in the hands and mind of Coach Nit~hnwn, oe<>m>< pr<>tty def- initely a Union College sport w01 thy of the attention of the big team.s. Out on the practice grounds of Alexander Field, Nitchrnan and Nel- son have been developing what looks verv rnuch like a smooth foot- ! ball machine. \Duke\ Nelson ham- I mers fundamentals to the linemen and Nels Nitchman grows hoarse and sore in his instruction of the backs, ends and centers. F'ootball training in the past two weeks was a stiff course for everyone concern- ed. Scrimmages weze begun the WALTER J. NELSON tourth day of official practice. And they were real scrimmages. Twice or th1ec, four and four, respec- daily. tively. Nelson, with dimpled cheek.s and Nitchman, likewise a three year cheery visage, has already proved letterman at Union in football himself \one of the boys,\ both on and baseball, with th1ee varsity the football field and off. He is now years of basketball tagged on, living in one of the dormitories holds an important place in the with the undergraduates, a place athletic annals of the college. He he was very recently accustomed started coaching, as did \Duke\, to while at Middlebury. He gradu- immediately after graduation. Hr ated from there in 1932. assumed his first varsity coaching On the pzactice field he becomes job in 1933-34 whPn he became head so thoroughly immersed in his conC'h of ba\kPtbal!. His first team I work that he hears nothing but the won eight and lost six, his second questions of his proteges. A voice team lost two and won 13, his thir<l addressed to him from the sidelines team lost five and won 11-in the nevPr reaches him if he is watching hnrrlest rampaign in a good many the execution of some play, Nitch- I years. man worl1s in the same secluded I Nitchman and Nelson started in I spherP, newr pausing from his 1 on formal drills the day after labor work at hand except at rare inter- day with a squad of about 30. Both vals. are now looking forward to Middle- Two men. both approximately the bury and the ensuing campaign. same number of years away from Both are young and hopeful. ((f'mm::::m::m::m::mmmmm::::::;;:m:::::m::::m::mmmm:m:::m:m:m:::::::::m::m:im::m;;;;;;mmi':illl One man who didn't have to Ill U N I 0 N C 0 L L E G E Ill worry too much about getting into m m condition for the Union football I m m sea,on this fall was Jack Smith ill m who spent a good part of his sum- 1 Hi B 0 0 K STO R iii mer vacation in playing the attack I m : . ' E m on the All-American lacrosse team i m m touring the west coast, Canada, and I m m the east coast in a series of exhibi- m m tion. games with some expert pro- m m fesslonals. Ill FEATURES PARKER PENS ~~ GET YOUR \' ,, COLLEGE RING Ill and SCHOOL NEEDS Ill Bearing Official Seal Certified $2.00 Jlalue only 25c with the purchase of a bottle of :s: :s: FOR ALL COURSES COMPLETE LINE OF BOOKS LAUNDRY BA 0 5 ~m FELT GOODS and STATIONERY l!i :s: m m m :s: m !,~~~!.q~!~~~~~ Re 8 ~~!ar l~:~~rs Hour~:~;~ l~;~ks ill This amazing offer is made solely to intro- Hi ;;: duce Parker Quink;-the miracle ink that cleans I ;:! I ·.I 5 • S•.QQ 1!! your pen as 1t wntes, an~ dries ON PAPER: m I•QQ 5•.00 ;;; 31% faster than pen·cloggmg inks. I m • - ::: Get Quink today from any store selling ink. Hi ;;: Tear off the box- top and on the back write the . ::: ;;: FULL NAME of your school or college, rinsl ili ;;; • SIZE. and style wanted (man's or :;: R 5 Ad • • t • B :;: waman'sl.andyournameandad·'m oom -- m1n1s rat1on u\1ld\n m dr!'SS. Mail box·top with 25 cents ir.l m . I g ;;; com to.The P.arker ~en Co., Dept. 737, Hi ;;; JanesVIlle, W1s. Don t delay. This offer I:!: ;;; ends Dec. 31, 1936, if supply lasts I iii:::m;;m;m;m::::m::~::_;m:m:m::_::m:m:::;;~~mm~:mm~~·m:mm:m:m::mmm;:mm::m::m::::m:lll PHONE 4-253b If tt•s a Horne Cooked Meal (ITALIAN or AMERICAN) Try the Union Inn (Better Known as Tony's) 517 Union Street Best Beersl Wines and Liquors DELICIOUS SANDWICHES Fall Lacrosse Tllis fall the Department of A.th- Ietics has ar.ranged anothe.r la'- crosse sessioll. The membe:r~ .of the freshman class will receive gymnasium .credit for thi.s. actJvity.: Practice.s w1U be held daaly at. 4, :1::> P. M. on the Library Fielc,i. ;As soon as the gymnasium scned:ule can be completed and the eqlll.ip- ment issued the pradices will start. In all probability the fall work~outs will be terrninaatEd a- gain this year with a seriEs of cla.s~ games. It is hoped that tea..rns representing the .senior and jun.ioz:- classes will also participate. \['he annual freshman-sophomore ga..rne is a certainty. The members of the varsit:r squad and last year's fresluaall. team excepting those participating- in other fall sports, will be ex()'ec- ted to report. The emphasis will be to drill the new men and 'to fa- miliarize them with the game. <.,Juite a number of fz·eshmen have already evinced a desire to talte U(> the Indian game. In the clas; of 1940 there are six men wit.ll la- crosse experience. This grou.p in- cludes: l!:ngland, Mayersohn, King, Murray, Palos, and Fink. Wit:h this nucleus, prospects for a fair- sea- son next spring seem bright, During the summer the c<>llege lacrosse equipment has been ·com- pletely renovated. With the cLass sticks at their disposal the ·llle\v men should pick up the game I'a- pidly. ----<0--- Journalism Class All those who are interest-ed' in. the study of journalism prep!Lra- tory for either life work or a$ an. aid to extra-curricular activit.:y are requested to meet in the Publi-ca- tions Office in Silliman H:a!I. Wednesday at one o'clock w·itll. Norman R. Stewart, editor, eend. Milton M. Enzer, Assistant t<J i:he President. Let VI NICK'S Get You Set For College Check This List McGregor Sweater (all styles) ............ $2.9~ -.xp Slacks .................... $3.9Jl -.xp Gabardine <Top Coat) !Showerproof) ............ $11..50 Reversable Topcoats .... $19.541 -.IJl Suits <two pants) ....... , ... $25-00 Suits <plaids or chalk stripes) <1 pants) ............. $25.0«1 II]J Mallory <Campus) Hat ... $4.(){) IIJJ Top Coats IRaglan with slash pockets) ........ $18.5{) np McGregor Suede (leather) Jackets ................. $7.9;5 np Sport Coats .............. $8.9a D]J Stirts <for the College man) ................... $1.95 op Neckwear <stripes, check and plain) .............. $1.0'10 op Others at 65c Hose (fancy patterns) ...... 35e~ ti]l Suspenders <Action-Bak Hickok) ................ $1.0() np Pajamas <faultless) ...... $1.65 up Robes .................... $ 1 . 95 .up SJ' 1ppers .................. $1.95 .up VINICK'S MEN'S SHOP 467 State St. A. P; DeSIENA, Prop. Varsity I Pointj Runners Imp1 Hawkes Nun Ketz Vel Coach Wilford again started his try squad scram ro.cky country through W. P. A' stumbling down after six mile wo behind last year lng period, Keb boys up in prepa card season. Remaining frOJ are two men wl: tain to have pia ! .:: Bill Hawke:-3, nur. year, Captain, aJ than twenty-seve distance, will pro ing Union contE Bill was a consi: in the fall meetin mile track event, for a successful ~ Myer> Number five m Harry Myers ha has easily secure• himself once agai ment will place 1 scoring post. M;y ior. Left over f squad are Bob E itt, Ray Denton, Everest has fi course in under may improve en starting mark in itt did not run in year and is som known runner. J sible that Sam VI men to fill in t first and fifth p substitute last ye considerably and chance of gettin1 group. Burd has varsity team, but with the bunch a Good Pl For the other has a number of 1 men from which well-rounded grou most outstanding ~ present writing a l and Ed Wells. Th. .I his numerals witl 1 and is \very good l in last season wi · [ team but was fo: ! because of an inj . 1 now, however, E• .f can stay out in fr run. If these two come up to expec· has ample Ihateri; Frank Myers a1 brothers of the t, of the same name, Thomson and We! as good and perha than both these m comes right behi Goach Ketz four equ:al ability for U positions. Impr01 men may even c. those who now see trenched. Joe Annese is f dark horse. Joe some fine runninl surprise us if he Cf flying colors. l frosh numerals, is Bob Shepard is tJ places. All around ter to decide in s who will finally m ing team. One of the enc01 the team is it nc fact that, win-lose practically irnposs men are sophomo: three years with returning to the S< as coach and thre them these men should get better a rolls by. Here's h< ----·0· ATHLETIC Touch F Entries for the I Football team wi September 25th at athletic managers must file a writteJ Department of Ph and Athletics and the entry. The CE managers is aske1 ent-ries will be a• governing the coD found in your resp1 boxes. The compet ducted on a dm basis as it was las begin on the follow schedule will be p 1 letin board In the l Frosh Gym Frosh Gym Equi sued from the G~ room between the and 5 p, m. upon the Bursar's recei also be assigned a• PaYment of Gne Which will be refu 1

p- a- c- ss a- a- p p ll Varsity Harriers PointforOpener Runners Improve Daily; Bill Hawkes Number One Man; Ketz Very Ho}leful Coach Wilford H. Ketz has once again started his varsity ·Crosscoun• try squad scrambling over muddy, w.cky country roads; speeding through W. P. A's pet ·park .project; stumbling down hill to the finish after six mile workouts. One week behind last years scheduled train- Ing period, Ketz is warming the boys up in preparation for- the five card season. Remaining from last year's team are two men who are almost cer- tain to have places on the squad. Bi\ll Hawke.::, number one man last year, Captain, and clocked in less than twenty-seven minutes for the distance, will probably be the lead- ing Union contender for honors. Bill was a consistent winner, both in. the fall meetings and in the two- mile track event, and seem.s headed for a successful season as a junior. Myers ]Jack Number five roan from last year, Harry Myers has shown that he has easily secured this position f(}r himself once again. Slight improve- ment will place Harry in a higher scoring post. Myers, also is a jun- ior. Left over from .the previous squad are Bob Everest, Sam Hew- itt, Ray Denton, and George Burd. Everest has finished the Union course in under 30 minutes and may improve enough to toe the starting mark in two weeks. Hew- itt did not run in cross-country last year and is somewhat of an un- known runner. It Is entirely pos- sible that Sam will be one of the men to fill in the gaps between first and fifth positions. Denton, substitute last year, has· improved considerably and has an outside chance of getting in the scoring group. Burd has never run on the varsity team, but has been keeping with the bunch around the course. Good Prospects For the other two places, Ketz has a number of pr·omising looking men from which to pick a fairly well-rounded group. Among the two most outstanding prospects at the present writing are Don Thomson and Ed Wells. The former received his numerals with the frosh team i and is \very good.\ Wells starting l in last season with the first year · [ team but was forced to drop out ! because of an injury. Back again . ·.' 1 , 1 now, however, Ed has proved he can stay out in front over the long run. If these two gentlemen fail to come up to expectations, Ketz still has ample material. Frank Myers and Ralph Denton brothers of the two other runners of the same name, are right behind Thomson and Wells. Myers is just as good and perhaps slightly better than both these men, while Denton comes right behind. This gives Goach Ketz four men of fairly equal ability for the two remaining positions. Improvement o:f these men may even cast out some of those who now seem to securely en- trenched. Joe Annese is an \unknown\, a dark horse. Joe has been doing some fine running and wo·uld not surprise us if he came through with flying colors. Howard Sheffer, fzosh numerals, is a fair prospect. Bob Shepard is trying hard to go places. All around it is a hard mat- ter to decide in so short a period who will finally make up the start- ing team. One of the encouraging things of the team is it now stands is the fact that, win-lose-or tie (which is practically impossible}, six of the men are sophomores. This means three years with at least six men returning to the squad. With Ketz as coach and three years ahead of them these men just naturally should get better and better as time rolls by. Here's hoping. ---0•---- ATHLETIC NOTICES Touch Football Entries for the Intlamural Touch Football team will close Friday, September 25th at 5:00 P. M. The athletic managers of each team must file a written entry with ihe Department of Physical Education and Athletics and sign his name to the entry. The cooperation of all managers is asked since no post. ent-ries will be acceptable. Rules governing the competition will be found in your respective intramural boxes. The competition will be con- ducted on a double elimination basis as it was last year. Play will begin on the following Monday. The sc~edule will be posted on the bul- letm board In the gymnasium. Frosh Gym Equipment Frosh Gyro Equipment will be is- sued from the Gymnasium. Stock- room between .the hours of 1 p. m. and 5 p. m. upon presentation of the Bursar's receipt. Lockers will also be assigned at this time, upon PaYment of one dollar deposit Which will be refunded In June. THE CONCORDIENSIS, 'I1UESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1936 ;~-;,,(# !f.h;r,ee- Good 01' Bill Union's Rejuvedated Team Faces Jl eteran 0 pponents By ED BARRY Outing Club Plays Host at IOCA Meet With two new coaches and a re-, h' C 1 juvenated team, Union will open Delegates of T wty-two o- their football campaign Saturday lege Outing Clubs Assem~ against Middlebury in Schenectady. ble at Mt, Mar·cy Head coach Nels Nitchman •and As- si::;tant coach Duke Nelson have been putting their charges through · hard, long workout::; and the Gar- net is expecting to put a ::;trong and well-balanced eleven on the field. The Union College Outing Club played host for the second consec- utive time to 100 representatives of 32 coHeges assembled at Mt. Marcy in the Adirondacks for the fifth an- nual College Week sponsored by the Intercollegiate Outing Club As· ::;ociation ea1·!ier in the month from September 5 to 12. WILFORD H. KETZ With tlle revisipn of the Union fall coaching staff which intro- duces three men to new positions in the football department, the on- ly seasoned varsity coach this fall is Wilf'Drd H. Ketz, director of th.e varsity cvoss-country ,,and track teams. With his country runners a com- paratively unknown quailtity, Bill Ktz will have lo take same lang draughts on his pipe before the completion of this season. Middlebury, which, by the way, is Duke Nelson's alma mater, has been tuning up since September· 7th. The \Panthers\ have a veteran aggregation and are especially powerful in the backfield. Philip- son, Guarnaccia, Chalmers, and Boehn are .Jarge and fast and are very capable of taking care of this strategic pu~ts. In the line, Craig, at ·right .end, Clidlan.d at left tackle, Seixas at right, Huffman at right guard, and Lovell at center, are ex- perienced and make up a strong forwa1:d wall. Hoba1i Strong Hobart, the Garnet\s fin;t game away, has a strong, veteran team and should gb1e the Dutchmen plenty of trouble. The \D•eacons\ open their season with Amherst and the result of this encounter should give a good indication of their prowess. Swarthmore is next on the Garnet schedule, this game also be- ing abroad. The Pennsylvanians have a new coach, Mark McCorm- ick, whu hail~ from the Unive1sity of Arizona. McCormick has a seas- oned squad and should put a strong team on the field. At Vermont, Frosh Cross-Country Is Largest in Many . ..,,~\'\''~'·' Union's second home garne, 22 men reported for the initial practice. The Catamounts lost Giardi, a good fullback, but as compensation, have two versatile sophomore ends who The large and promising array were outstanding as Green Moun- of talent which responded to til.in yearlings. Coach Bill Ketz's call for the fresh- At Tr<>y, R. P. I. seems to have man cross-country team can be an improved eleven, the first seen every day jogging around the stringers taking the toll of the re· track J>reparatory to beginning in-. serves in a scrimmage last Satur- tensive training over the I'egular · day to the tune of 30-0. The Engi- course, neers trained and worked out at The turnout is the largest sinc-e ' the Trojan freshman camp which is Ketz started coaching at Union an innovation in football condition- and bodes well for subsequent var- ing. The Cherry and Whiters will sity teams as the boys are more turn out en masse for the Union experienced than usual. Many of Middlebury battle Saturday. them are thoroughly at home in track shoes, having participated in Williams, per usual, has an abun- high and prep school cross-country dance of material, the reserves competition. from last year ably filling the The candidates are R. Ross, D. places of the seniors lost to the Murray. C. E. Smith, C. Trumbull, team. Latvis, a fast lineman, is W. L. Johnson, P. Santora, J. switched to the backfield and Sling- Fischei·, Becker, E. Gagen, G. Hoff- erlands, a good passer, is eligible. man, D. Campbell, and Melewicz. Rochester has a bunch of veterans, EXperienced or inexperienced, oth- among whom Nordberg, a passer, er• freshmen may still report to Babcock, passer, Buyse, a fullback, Bill Ketz for a tryout. are particularly outstanding. With the Pen That Stude:11ts Bate Highest BY ACTUAL VOTE Invented by a C::ollege Professor to B1•ing You. Jligltet• Grades A college professor noticed that poor grades are often due not to brains running low hut to pens run- ning dry! So he worked out an utterly differ• ent and basically better pen principle -and Geo. S. Parker engineered it to perfection. Thus came the revolutionary Parker sncless Vacumatic that has super- seded every old-style pen-both sac- type and sacless. Recently the student editors of 30 college pap_ers asked 4,699 of their J:eaders, \Which make of pen do you own? Wllich pen do you prefer?\ To both questions more students answered \Parker than any other two makes of pens COMBINED! One reason is that the V acumatic ink suEt>!Y is EVER-VISIBLE, the ENTIRE length of the barrel. It isn't merely last-drofl visibility- doesn't merely show when your J.len is empty. It shows daysahend WHEN IT'S RUNNING LOW, so it can't run dry against your will. The Vacwnatic's working_ '(!arts are sealed in the top WHERE INK CAN ~EVER TOUCH THEM- can nevt>r decompose them. That's wl!Jr this miracle _pen is GUARAN- TEED mechanically perfect, And the Parker Vacumatic has no rubber ink sac or lever filler-hence GUARANTEED MECHANICALLY PERFECT Junior, $S1 • Pencils, $2.50, Over-Size, $10 $3.~0 and $5 has room for 102% more ink without increase in size! Its luminous, la1ninated Pearl style has won every IJen Beauty Contest by 2 to 1. Go and see it today at any good store selling pens. The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis. The gz·oup hiked to vat ious points of intere::;t in the Adirondack Mountains. including the Sanford Mines, Mt. Phelps, the Macintyre Range, ~1t. Holden, Hanging S1Jear Falls, and Indian Falls. Attendance Doubled Walter Williams of the Union Outing Club announced that this year's attendance was nearly dou- ble that of last year when 6() repre- sentatives of nineteen colleges took par't in the program which was held in the same region. Each delegate was responsible during the week for his own food, equipment and comf01ts. The camp- ers entertained themselves at night under the direction of Mrs. Ora .A. Phelps who also acted as chaperone for the group. Mrs. Phelps, an ex.- perienced woodsman and botanist, conducted special hikes for those interested in botany. The purpose of the College Week sponsored every year by the Inter- collegiate Outing Club Association is not only to afford members fur- ther opportunity to become socially acquainted during a pleasant week in the Adirondacks, and to discuss mutual problems but also to afford the delegates a \general brain dust- ing and physical stimulation J:j_fore returning to their college s~es.\ Fall Tennis Intramural Fall Tennis entries will close on the same day as the football enl!·ies. Every student in 1· college is eligible to compete .. A group may enter as many men as it wishes and the rules governing 1 competition will be found in the in- 1 tramural box:es. No post entries will 1 be accepted. The tournament will be conducted on a straight elimin-~ ation basis. Contestants wili supply their own rackets and balls for all matches. The schedule will be post- ed on the bulletin board in the gymnasium and play will begin on Monday, September 28th. To Make Any Pen Clean Itself Try this utterly different writing ink- Parker Quink-an ink that dissolves deposits left in pens by ordinary inks. Qui11k cleanses a pen as it writes-a Parker or any. other pen. Ends pen..clogging.GetQuitzkatany store selling ink. l5c and 25C, FALL SPOR1'S SCHEDULE Date Sept.26 Oct. 3 Oct. 10 Oct. 10 Oct. 10 Oct. 17 Oct. 17 Oct. 17 Oct. 17 Oct. 24 Oct. 24 Oct. 24 Oct. 24 Oct. 24 Oct. 31 Oct. 31 Oct. 31 Oct. 31 Nov. 7 Nov. 7 Nov. 14 Team V. Football V. Football V. Football V. Ct\oss Country F. Football V. Football V. Ct\oss Country F. Football F. Cross Country V. F0cotball V. Football V. Cr-oss Country F. Fo<Jtball F. Cr<Jss Country V. F()otball V. Cims Country F. Fo-otball F. Cruss Country V. Cruss Country F. Cross Country V. Football Football Ticket~ Opponent J'.liddlebury College Hobart l.:niversity Sv,rarthmor e College Ve!!nunt University Middlebury Fl•OBh Vennnot University 1\liddl ebury College Gluver;ville H. S. Nott Tenace II. S. R. P. I. H. P. I. R. P. I. Frosh R. l'. I. Frosh Williams College \\'illiams College Williams Frosh Williams B~rosh Rochester University R0che~ter University TI'O\' H. S. Huililton Colleg-e Place Home Away Away Home Home Home Horne Away Home Away Away Away Away Home Home Home Home Away Away Horne Home I lrrtl'rPStrd in Srhrnutady lult'Tt'Sft'd irz C.\'IOS Student,; wi;- b;- l'ClJUircd to p10-ll cure tickets for- their seats in the Chee1·ing Section for each var tiity 1 game. These rr:lay- be obtained by presentation of the \Athletic Tickets\ at the pmnasium office. Admittance to the Cheering Section I will be denied to all non-holder,; by the ushers. MAURICE B. GRAUBART Students must :show both their tickets at the gate to the ticket- takers. The Jay Strt't't Jewdt'r 166 jAY STREET lt'at,h and lncelry Repairing a Specialty PARKER PENS On Every Campus, Voted fhe Most Likely to Succeed The BAROMETER* REVERSIBLE COAT The reversible coat is the most popular and practical style ever to originate on a univer- sity campus. Equally at home in fair weather or foul, it makes ~ne coat suffice where two formerly were needed. And Barometer IS the origir1al reversible coat! The sunshine side comes in tweeds and saxon- les, rn hound's tooth checks, overplaids and glens. The gabardine side is in the new putty shade, a color found only in Barometer. s25 Lounge Tailored

Six . THE GONCORDIENSIS, T.UESDA Y, SEPTEMBER 22, 1936 Enrollment Normal With 256 Freshmen · Walter J. Nelso~, A.B., Middle- Fox Announces Changes ·bu~y College, 1932;. io be rnst~uctor F'alls; Thomas Conners, Westp01·t; Fratel'nities Gain 134 h\ ·st ff In Physical. Educn..tion tAss1stant John R. Culings, Watertown; Class of 1940 In Union Teac mg . a Coach of Varsity Football, Coach of Char leo> R. Deyo, Binghamton; Free! New l\'ien in Fall Rush ____ Baseball). Came he:re f·mm Middle- A. Dtaeselte, Mom·oe; Robert R. C 11 h he wa~ In --- th '11 tand· •Oo~tr'n·ued· f 1 ·om Page 1) ·bury · o ege w erE = - l£hmer, Poughkeepsia; Robert J. In a week or so ey wr s' , ~· h t · th Dep~ 1 ·tment of Phy New Students Come From Mid-West and South; Three From Abroad Of i' ~yclt olog'-', to conduct !'esearc struc .or tn e · · \\' - Fehlman, 1\lilne; John L. Fisher jr., •Cotltr'uued from !'age 1) in line u • • 1 \'d cat1'on ~n-' .Athletics and ' · b d clotheo 1 - 11 chi'Id'• ,.,sycn· ology t'n Europe, ·srca ·n. U a ou · · · Genesee·, Ronald E. Fisk, Brasher With U1e1r ran -new ' \ \' 1 · t c h f Var·s 1 'ty Foot W 'll L W'll' t' R b t 1 d 1' 1 k L>at'I\l t<r'cha·r·d Weeks, A.B., n- · A.ssrstan oac o · - B'alls; Edward C. Gagen., Pelham 1 am ynn, 1 rman rc; 0 er and that fle g mg 00 •· •\ • e grad ball Coach of Hockcsy and Baseball. .l.Ianor; Stanley B. Gertz, Jamaica; F'eld_man, Albany; George Miller, While their lofty lords-class of ::;tructor in ll)ngllsh, to pursu · . - The return frorr.t. leave of ab- Geol·gu L. Foff, Platt» burgh; Ever- Elmira; ~~bert Ro<;~vvell, Schenec- '39 uate wodt at L!ol umbia University. sence of Rowland: Mason Myers, et t M. Hafner, Brooklyn; Samuel C .. ta~y; Wilham '-:V.nghton, Sout~- ' Scout for suckers to take the Appointments .Ph.D., (return frol:ll leave ·Of ab- Harnmerstrorn, Jamestown; Otis E.\ bndge, Mass.; Phrhp Shanley, Hei- hook, t e . F t d . d . · kl H d T B klyn· And the optimists of the facul- The following appointmen s wer sence m ranee s u ymg un er an Union College welcomed into its Haven, North Kingstown; Wilbert mer; u son ~ner, ~~o , aunounced in the division of Lang- American Field Service Fellow- A. Hdnz, McDonou2:h·, Paul A. and Donald Lescohrer, Detroit. ty t b A - t t p f or f family another class last weelt with - · Scan the ranks for signs of a · uage and Literature: ship)) o e ss1s an , ro ess o the stu't ot the college regi,;tration. Howe, Platts·burgh; Donald T. Had- Phl Sigma n:apptl with. seven scholar's bent, Harold W, Blodgett, Ph.D., to. be Modern Languages (French) was Yestelday, the opening of the 142nd ley, Sauquoit; John S. Kt ull, Lyn- pledges announced: Le Dere Win- Knowing well the truth of the Assistant Professor of Engllsh; the final change. year of tne college, the total of the brook; Stephen H. Laning, Roe sse!- nie, Chen y Valley; Richard Har- stern decree <'ame hel'e from Keuka College 01---- members of the class of 1940 had ville; Robert B. Leadb~tte~ ~~ek- rison, Delhi; Richardc~e~to.in~ara- That some come to college and where he was head of the depart· Everest N a~med: Chairman reached 2flti, a normal number lut okill; Ad fur E. Main::; Jr., ~ ma; lug a Spring:>; GJleo ~\;.• . t any; . some are sent. . ment of l:!::nglish; also . tau~ht at a Union enttering class. Jerome C. Maleclt, Cat·rnan; e<Jrge EtL!e::;t Schmi t, 1 rams owu, H A L Datt·niouth and the Umve_rs1ty o_f Of .SyraCUSE Confel'ence J. Miller, Elmira; Leopold Minltin Mass.; l£manuel Dejno::;lta, Sat·a- . . . · . Freshmen spent their tii·st few J·r·., Milne·, Evans \V. Mosher, Au- toga Sprin2:s; and Sheldon Evans, c · T wer · Illinois· author \Walt Whrtman 111 d t II · go1't1g through ~ in the onnmg 0 ' ~· 11 glan'tl,\ atld \Life of Occum\; Robert D. Evere~t. president of ay» a co ege m . burn; Albert Mould, Glen Cove. Fo·rty Fort, Penna. New York Herald-Tribune \\' the annual procedure of the Otten- I to I' O'C' ll B 1 E sun o.f IItember of class of 189'7 at the Union ·College Christian A::;so- tation prug 1 am. lit eeted oftictul_Iy {o \ 1 t '· onm· ' 1 .ng •u~ll· · l'si UIJsilnn's new men urt:': r_n- L.:nion, u.ml great gr·eat neiJhew of elation, wiH act as· oehairman of the lun; Lawrence V. Pelletier Jl'., eot '·!!nut, Baltiml)Ie, Mel.·, Chns- II t t \d f of College by the college and put to test Ill p l k . W'll' R p \ \\ H f d F h o· s fayler L.ewis, 8 a e-Wl e con erence ~ever a! exanli'tlatr'on::; and made oug I eepsle; l ram . ow:rs, topher Camrna,ck, West . art Ol\. ' . ros ' l'n.ors we d . director 'Chiistian Associations which will ~ Daviu S. 1'1 C<'t.on, Jacob Rabmo- Conn.·, Ansell Swl'et, Elmira·, DaVId . 'C . ' :\.lit ian::t Doyle, P 10 ucmg b h ld th' t s· H. ldl Ualllt ·ted \'Ith the meth- c ff t'ot· l>owland \'tebbr·n~ who has . e e rs year a yracuse. e nu Y acq \ witz, Cat~lt ill; llPorg<> R Ralph. \\'!'lt!et Rochustel · €harles Cnder- H J H • \' ~ d l ·• and a\ll\'tl'' 11t l'ntun • ' • . a e ouse 0 · .efS·. \io'\· ·!ted\ 1 1 .,, 1 . ~ei'\'!Ce\ a\ director was elected at las-t year's confer- 0 s 01 s uuy ' J ' ;\lew Ha1tfo1·d; Townsend J. Rifen· wood, ·\uburn·, sheldon Jenkino, ~ ~ ~ u ~ tl 1 el ·p\tlt a l'ttt·l'r· i.Ju·' • for· ·th·e t 1 ·, 1 ·st play of the Mounte- ence held at Lyle, N', Y. te newco 11 \\ \ ' ' ·> ·baty, Kingston; I;lonald Roberto, Utica· of the cla::;s oll940; and Ro- week-end aftter regi:>ttautton. New Hoc helle; Che:;ter H. Robin- bert Walter of Dell oit of the class --- banks. The pwgrarn cf the .conference The freshmen repre:;ent 1:.! diffe•- :;on, Yonker::;; Theodore D. Robin- of 1939. New One-Meal-a-Week Policy A pm·t time director for the meeting in Plymout.h Congregation- ent ~tate~ r·n the countl\ outside c 1n 1 ·n l\lal\'t'n Ro\eii Ja . 11 b inted later al Church, Octol:Jer 16-18 includes ~ ~ \ son, 0 · g; 0 ' - The 1'1.,-dges of IJP.lta Phi are: Bt·I\ng·\ Many of Class of · other nlays WI e appo · · social activities, several discussions, of New ::tork, with tthree ·memi.Jero mutca; Murray B. Ro:;enfeld, New Fred· Dt\Meke Rochester·, Ben.J.·a- \' Cadman Hislop, A.B., Union '31, of 1\:HO connng uom fut·elgn latHb. York; Charlc::; T. H.oss, Averng; nti·n Lor·d~,'Jor·., Glens Falls·, H. Don- 1940 to Hall A.M., Corumbia '34, to be Instructor and a dance Saturday night. Among .,.h t t t t d ate Ne\ E s h 11 Fl 1 p 1 k· r'n Englr'~II. 'uthol' of \Dutch Eng- lhe scheduled .spea.kers are Henry \ e s aa e::; represe 1 e Geot ge . C a ' ora. a. ' ald Well\ G!on~ v~all'', Everett Haf- ~ \' D f th U . • t t '1 a hu ·etts G · b k p 1 k'll J h \ • ~ \ \ --- II'\h and Anlet·r'can,\ 1936. P. Van Dusen, · ean <:J e mon J er::;ey, Con nee rcu , •• aC~s c \ • Hal ry . Stll ec , ee IS 'I ; o n ner, Brooklyn·, Au.stin White, En· o • 1 S - R bb' I Oh . \' ont Hhude Island ln- J \t 'dl 0 onta· M''t'on L Still T·h·' cla\S of 1940 contt·ibuted S b A B P . ton Theologrca eminary; a I saac 10 ' erm ' ' · \' el e, ne ' \ · - dicott; Fred Clum, Valley Falls; ' \ Gordon. R. il er, · · rmce ' Lazaron, of Baltimore; Dr. Grace diana, Illinois, Pennsylvania, 11ich- man, Uti<'a; G. Bailey StouP, East Adt'ot·d J\1ar'ne~, '\\edma. generously to the horde that 1 9 3 1 with highest honors in Class- .,.. t 1 • 11 t lk igan, North Carolina, and Delaware Mot·iches ·, Ansell E. Sweet, .Elmi!·a; ~ \'\' t! 1 ronged the table::; at Hale House · 'phD. 1'36. to be Instructor in Loucks .,_.mot \W l() WI a on - AI I D lta I,hi I d I S huy rcs; ·' ·· • ' · . \Mar rr'age and thoe Home\· and cuba, the Philippine Islands, anti Hudson H. Tanner, Robert E. Tan- Pta e 1'\' ge<: · c - last night as the colleg.e'·s first day French and Italian. Instructor m Bogota, Columbia are the foreign ner, VVilliam c. Taylor, New Ha.rt- ler Orvis, Jr., Wetitport, Conn.; Ed- of recitations drew to a close. ·Of Classics, first semester, at Prince-. Ralph Harlow of S:mith College. countries li:oted a:> lhe residenc-e ol ford: Charles D. Underwood, A.u- w~n Ha~nocli, Albany~ Philip T. the 94 diners at that time 38 were ton while one of the regular staff Ol---- thtee freshmen. bum: Haiold Vogel, Poughkeepsie; lhll, Scotia;. BUJley :stone, Ea:;t fre~hmen eating under the admin- wa~ abs~nt on !~ave. Since then a Dormitory Room Changes Franlt J. A!01s, Jameo Armstron;~. Fredenek \A'. Von Shelly, D-onald -'~~~uches, L. I.;_ Jay Htfenbar.), istration's new one-dinner-a-week gtaduate 13 tudent in Romance lang- Hilbrand Beltkenng, Harry B'. Ben- J. Wait, Watertown; Austm H. 1\.lng~ton; John .b 18 ~\ 1 • J ~·· :Buffalo policy. uagcs, holding a University Fellow- Any student v;lshing to be re- Jamm, l£I nest \V. Bullen::; tab, White, ~ndrcott; Franlt L. Winne. I and Stuull Palo:>, Ecttit Grecnbuoh This ~ear all freshmen are 1e- ship. leased from Dorlllit.ory Room Con- Georges Brandes, Walter .Brrgg,, Cherry Valley; John }1. Wt·ight, 1\.a.ppn :Nu pledgesnre: Larry Ro- quired to eat at Hale House. Those Williall!l Rittenhouse Richardson, tract for sufficie.nt reason may ap- Buutette L. Bwwn, w. A. Bu::.rnu, Pun Jervr~. and Wrlliam M. Yar·n- etlfeld, Brooklyn; Hany ~ogel, living in the rere.ntly opened fresh- A.B., Williams College, 1922; B.A.· ply for a list of possible substitutes Emnror E. Caldwell, James J. Cal), all of Warwick. I Poughkeep::;re; Rubert Elsner, men sections of South College ancl Oxfot·d, 1930: M.A Harvard, 1932; at the Cornptrollerts Office after Haney.&;, Chap[Jell, Julin ~1. Cuul- Ftom New Jetocy ale Herbert Puughkeep::;ie; Leonard Pe!le;s, AI- the Old Gym Dormitory must eat Ph.D., Hat vard, 1933; to be In- 9:00 a. rn. Wednesd.ay. The student ter v;·anen de::>o 1 uo, Hobert A. Bl'nlfeld, Englewuod, Hobert Burn, b...t.uy; .Marvin Lazarus, Albuny; and live b1 eakfasts, dinners, and cltruetor In English. Instructor in will find an altem:ate who is wilJc Eagan, George w. En~land,jr., \Val- of Orange; Burdick H. Brittin, Ped- George Brandeis, Schenectady. lunches each week at the dining English at Williams College. ing to take over his room and ter A. Fallon, Merlin S. Fay, Eu;;- die Pt ep; Charles F. Brown, Maple- Delta. Chi announced: James Lot- hal·!. unless they are attached to J\lathe-matics and ScienCE ap,.,ly at the offlc:e with his re- ene A. Fink, Fred A. Freligh JL, wood; Donald P. Campbell, Robert lldge, Rensselaer; Paul Mahoney, fraternities. Every freshman, re- ln the Mathematics and Science· ceipt, together witl'! bis· substitute Robert H. Furman, John A. Fitz- \V. Hun,;on and Angelo J. Sedens, Schenectady; Sheridan McKenna, gardless of place of residence, must division: for change of lease after noon on simmons, John G. Gerzov, William Bloomfield; Myron G. H~ffman, Westport, Conn.; John McCarthy, take at least one meal per week at Edwar<l D. Amstrutz, Ph.D., to Wednesday. The original $10.00 G. Gormley. Plainlie!J.; Laughlin D . .MacKt:rnon, Watervliet; and Richard Kearn, the hall, the fee for the first sem.- be Instructor in Chemistry. Came deposit will be forfeited. Under no ZyO'munt P. Grabicki, Henry R. Richard Nevius, New Brunswick. Fonda. ester being ten dolla1s, collected on here from Cornell where he was circumstances will :release be given Gl ·os\'se Alber·t H. Halavin, En- From Connecticut are Chr icto- payment of tuition. Instructor in Chemistry. unless all dormitot'u rooms are h C k d Tho ma· J Ch.i l:'si announC(•d: Russell Deyo, Br a! f t · d 1 d \\1 K K'lm PhD · A. M ' nio l::;abella, William Edward John, p er ammac an s . k e ~ as IS serve on wee 1 ays ,. mer . 1 er, . ., . ., filled. Kane, John A. Killcoin jr., Rob- Mulcahy, West Hartford; Louis E. Binghamton; John Ce>lby, Holyo e, from 7:30 to 9:00 a. m. From 9:00· Ursin us College, 1915; M.A., Teach- -;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;; 'Vt'llr'ant L. Johnson, Edward R. Ames, Hartford; John N. Gardner, !>fuss.; William SchaiUe, Monntain to 10:00, the meal will be sened ers College, Columbia University, Ji ' G · Jd F · p Dunr'gan Lakes, !'J'. J. ·, Howard Taber, Bos- cafeter· t I L h · f 1926 Ph D New Yor·k Unt'versity ert F. Kilmer, Maxwell C. Krueger. n»wo ; rancts . ' ·ra s y e. unc eon Is rorn : .. , . ' Leo Kupecki, William c. LaBahn Bridgeport; Louis T. Kramer, Strat- ton. Mass.; and Earl Whitehead, 12:10 to 1:10 p. m., and dinner from 1931; to be Instructor in Psy- fol ·d· Euoene S \cKenna Staple<· Schene<:tadv. 6:00 to 7:00 p. rn. on n·eel'davs. cho!oa\. Came here from Seton honey, Franlt V. Melewicz, Paul L. ' '\' · \'\ ' ·' · J .. • \ bJ Beecher, \V. Leversee, l:'aul D. Ma- Robert T. Sammet, Headen. 1\.appa Sigma pledges am: Myron Sundays. bt eakfast is set ved from Hall College, South Orange, New Merz, Robert A. Miles, L~o u. Mur- From MassachUbetts are John W. Stillman, Utica; Angelo Sedirus, 9:00 to 10:00 a. rn., dinner from Jersey, V'Vhere he was head of the ray jr. and Eliot Hertzmark, Holyoke; Bloomfield, N.J.; Donald Campbell, 1:00 to 2:00 p. m., and supper from Departm-ent of Education. William .F. Nugent, Burton H. William C. Daly, Cushing Academy; Bloomfield. N. J.; Robert Hanson, 6:30 to 7:30 p. m. Social Studies Olm:;tead, Nathan Paul, Hiram N. Charles -!· Passe, ~it~::;field; Er~est Bloomfield, N. J.; and Francis For those wishing single meals, In the Social Studies division: d A P . - 11 J h H S~hmrdt and Wtlham J Wugh- D B 'd t c breakfast and lunch are set·ved Dr. Ft·ank Manheim, A.B., Uni- Peatson, Edwar . mtavr e, o n · · I onegan, 11 gepor , onn. 1 , b J R d 11 p 1 ton jl'., Mount V£'rnon; Howa.rd C. a-la-carte, while dinner is priced at varsity of North Carolina; A.M. Co- J. Quinlan, \ 0 ert · 0 we ' au Taber. Newton. : The pledge.. of Theta Nu Epsilon 65 cents. Meal tickets are issued lumbia University; to he Instructor J. Santora, William P. Schlansker, From Ohio are Rupert L. Gil- ~ nre: Robert Ross. Rockaway Beach, as follows: for seven days, three in Modern European History. Frank H. Simboli, Roberj L. ~a~; wnod; Charles P. Trumbull of Cleve- l L. I.; George Selles, Schenectady: meals per day, $7.00; five dars. Helmer Lewis Webb, M.A.; Ph.B., terly, Edward \V. Stewart, os<•p · more, L\uis J. Kozlevcar of Collin- I John Vag-eline, Schenectady; Franlt thrPe ml'als per day, $5.00; five Denison, 1921; A.M., University of Stiefvater, Edward Tajkow~ki, \\'ll- land. Somboli, SchenPctady; Jam.eR A1·m- breakfasts and five lunches, $3.25; Rochest~r <special work in English liam R Poweis, Edwmd H. \'an F'mrn Vermont ~~ John C. Coni' strong, Schenectady, and R:alph fivP lunches and ft;·e dinners, $4.50. Litemtur·e) 1923; University of O'Linda, I~ubert S. Vernon, Jantc·~' of C!arlt School. Blakeman. Schenectady. Illinois C major in Library Science S. \'\'aliter, Robet·t S. Vernon, Jame.~ I<~ Rl d 1 1 d · Ch · t with tw<> years minor in Economics S. Wulkcr, Thoma< P. WaterhousP, rom , 'lO P 8 ?n 18 ns o- J,a.mbda Chi Al]Jba has pledg<>d: Kappa Alpha !'ledges F t Earl S. Whitehead, Richard J. \\'11- pher M. Fahy of Newport. Louis Kozlevcar Cleveland Ohio· Brown, Maplewood, N. a~~~ ~:r~; 'lnd Taxation); Member American liarns, \Villiam H. Witbeck, Got don, B~_:om Pe.nnsylvania are SheldoHn I Bill Daly, Hol,,o'lw, Mass.·, 'samuel Ross, Nyaclt ·, Charles Tl·umbull Libtary A.seociation; U.S.A.E.F., J E\ ·an · of Forty Fort Thomas J , 1917-19, !34th Field Artillery; carne E. Conrad, Vincent J. Dugan, Laugh · \ . · · Hammerstrom, Jamestown; Beech- Cl_eveland H_ eights, Ohr'o•, Ru.pert Ral ·ton of Bt ockway I · here frorn 'Tulane University where lin D. MacKinnon, Jerome C. Mal- T::;h 1 . t f 'th t te in rr LevPnN•, Rex:ford; Laughlin Grlmore, Cmcinnati, Ohio; Evans he was Librarian. eck, William H. Schwab, George J. :. Is . rom 0 _er . sa s . , - MacKinnon, Atlantic City, N. J.; Mosher, Aurora; Walter Briggs, New Coach Sells jr., Maulice G. Tidbal, William elude, \Vtll~am ~- ~tbe~. of Bo::;::;e: John Nichols, Saratoga; and Sher- Schenectady; and Frederick von In the Physical Education and Newberry Jr., and Donald S. Les- Athletics Department: s. Tosh, John J. Vageline of Sche- Ind .. Norm~n \\ · Drednch, Phelps I man Parry, Whitehall. Sholly, Flush,ing, L. I. nectady. choler· of Detroit, Mich.; James S. iif.iliiiialiiiiiliiitiillliiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiilliiaiiiiiiiraaiiiiiiilliliiliiiiiiiiiiiliiiliiiliiijiil!iiii!iiiii Students from nearby commun- Knowlson of Hinsdale, Ill.; Ed- lt1 ities include: Met·!in L. Brockrnyer, Phillip T. mund Peele jr., of Raeford, N. C.; .!;lill and James H. Watson of Sco- i5~~o.rd 1!. Ricatd of \Vilmington, traj 05 h Ber Alden Mullins, Outside of the t.:'nited States are ep g, . . represented Jose A. Frel!'e of Cuba, George L. Peck, of Gloversville. \ t V 1\! f th Ph'!' · Decltro, Lewis W. Hallenbeck, Mm·- an s an 1. ram · c Ill . o LaH.ue G. Buchanan, Floyd ~-~ L,~gu~ · d\ ~¥.~/ se s ~ ~~rn~ I tm 1-l. Heclt, Howard P. Lansin~. Bogot-'.1, Columbra, S_u~th Amenca. I Cusmud J. ::lzymccyk, and Edwald I .\:ost recent. additions to the I' H. \Vitt~meier, of Am::;terdam. freshman class.are; John A. Alte-. Franklin w. Arnstein, Louis Car-l mus·o.f Mo:rtclarr, New Jersey; Bur- nevale, Giles D. Cla!lt, Alcxanuel t?~ T. Dohng of Albany, Arthur ~- 1 D. Cornell, Charles A. Hodder, r>la-~ h._mg of Amsterdam, Q. Davrd I son G. Hutchm::; 11, Roy June::;, Mm- Lt~h~ of New\' Y~rk, Robett Ross. o_f ' vin Lazarus, \\'illiam J. Nuge'1t, A\eiine, Lon, Island, S. P. Ma~ €!- Stewart J, Palos, Leonard H. Pet·- soh.n of_ Albai~Y: H. ~·. PalmerT of · Jes», Clayton E. Smith, John H ... Coxsaclue, Ph1l~p Lustig of New I Tietjen, of Albany. Ym k, r-:· T. Patne of Albany, Schu~:- 1 Ralph E. Blakeman, William B. ler Orvrs. Jr. of We.stport, Conn_ecl!- Lynn, .b'ranlt L. Winne, Frederick cut, Ad1th _Epsteu; of Hol~oke, s. Clurn and James H. Lotridge, of Mass., Francis Dumgan of Bridge- Troy. port, Conn., Joseph ~hattan of R. J. Benton, Quintin P. Cole, Schenectady, George Sabey of AI- Ladislav Dejnozka, John William bany. Nichols jr., and John Sigsby of f1ar· .. _ --- o- ---- atoga Springs, and David G. Hay- ner of Mechanicville. Dining Overpayment Warren C. Earles of Schoharie; I<~rcshmen who have made over- Charles H. Guiles and Delbnt Pas- payment of their dining accounts co, of Warrensburg;. Pa~l G. Hay- I should make written application ner of Cohoes; BenJamm J. Lord • for reimbursPrnent to the Comp- jr. and Harold D. \Veils of Glen:s I troller. Fall; Sherman \V. Parry of White- I Applications should .give amount hall; and Arthur C. Ruland of Cob-~ due you, r<>ason for overpayment leskill. and the number of the receipt is- 1 Other,; from :::\'cw York state a1e I :ouut• tu )uU at the time o-f regis- 1 George :::\'. Alper, Riverhead; Stan-, tratiun. All applications hould be ley Becker, Jamaica; Richard Y. filed befo1 e SatUJ day, September Booth, East Aurora; Richard L. 26. Bull, Campbell Hall, Lyman Barton, I DUC' to the great rush of business Plattsburg; Fred A. Burns, Alexan-~ the Comptroller's Office will nol be dria Bay; Alfred H. Case, St. Johns- able to issue reimbursement checks ville; Frederick S. Clum, Valley 1 until September 30. Clark Witbeck Co. \Quality Hardware Since 1870\ 416-418 STATE ST. S!chenectady, N. Y. Phonl's 4-4161 - 4-4162 We extend a cordial invitation to all students to come to our store and we will try to make you feel welcome. THE VAN CURLER Sons of Old Union Meet in the THE TAP ROOM THE NEW COFFEE SHOP Invites the Inspection of All True Union Men w·E WELCOME YOU ORIENTATION CLASS of 1940 Just in case they forget to tell you the orient e:li-io n course how to get to- Joseph's in -where Union men have bought their clothes for years-here •s a road map. many Nott Terra~o I,afnyett~ St. Joseph's • Bat\l'Pt:t St, • BEA.T MIDDLEBURY • JOSE·PH'S Stan Joseph Union 1 21 r I :· ,. I J I l, { .f i i I ·t [, l ' ! f .1' ' { Skidmo Openii1 Is Bi! Weeke1 News Vol. LX., No ~---- Skidmor Is Uni~ As Scl • .Finishing ~ l:)00 Girl 214 1' Hints Tell How to \Slightl Pule Special to 'I SARATOGA l Via telephone lege, a finishil north of S<.:hen' today with a r~ 800 students, ir 200 freshmen. usual, registert ment possible. The new stw college life waf sisting of risir 8:30 a. m. asse1 formal intl'OdU( library. After tests, they werE lunch. They: This afternoo tained: at a t~ Margaret Bridg and Mrs. Henry they had a ral tion of Miss Sa Meanwhile 1 tended their c where Miss De dent of the stuc them to act as their younger s: to be disill usior at once\ she i said. They ll After claims had re.duced the Express to gibb of ra]:}t listener, cutionists, the majority, settle that arose over of \What did Y< and \Isn't he si1 the Saratoga a familiar sound structed dentist of gum and the of apples. They 1 When intervi Skidmore nigh hazard no guess class, not ha vir official operativ ensis report tha achieve a fair s tude slightly in years. Skidmore Co actual opening paring for an from the south row night. Sp~ been sent to all and one is rep1 1. Freshmen : (Continue 0 Temp College_ \The boys ain' ·be,\ agreed hver tady's bartende query yesterday not the moder could compare mer years in tl their liquor stan \Why time Brown of the I a vetet·an of p \when the boys and down eigh winking an ey' sbakerful of gi sugar, then set \But nowaday: \they take two walk straight. 1 night they carri got tight on six into the recepta sighed, \Nope t used to be.\ Twenty-three Joe. Of these, reasons for tho modern undergr ble with these ~ one,\ is that tho too much. They of port and tho maybe on top (

of b- an of of He ion on re- on- ap- ent re- on no ; ~. ' I J Skidmore Opening Is Big Weekend News Vol. LX., No. 2 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., :FRIDAY, SEPTEl\IBER 2G, 1936 • 1\Iiddlebury Comes Here To Open Fowtball Sea::;on ----=-~=-==-=-~===--=-~--=-==~-=-===-=--==·==~~=====-=--~-~-=-=~================~====================~~=========~==========··====~--=-~--~-~-~~ PRICE FIVE CENTS ~~~~=-~~---~=------.---·---=~~~~~~-=== 1 Robert Everest Spea.ltt~ 011 Student C~uncil Pt•ogram Skidmore College Is Union Mecca As School Begins Skiihabn T1·ip Is First Outing Club Excui·sion \At Ease!\ in Union's Foreigll LegitJII \Idols\ Will Open Season Tomorrow, Host to Middlebury •:Finishing School' Regbten; ~00 Girls, Including· 214 New Frosh Hints Published Tell How to Treat '40, Rated \Slightly Higher in Pulchritude\ Special to The L'uuL:onlitiu:lis SARATOGA Sl'RINGIS, Sept. 25 l Via tel'\phone>. Skidwore Cui· lege, a fini~hing sehoul ~1 mile:; north of Schenectady, upened here today with a r~co1d 1 egi::;tratiun uf 800 :students, incl udiug mole than 200 freshmen. The st:nior class, as usual, regi:ltered at the la:;t mu· ment possible. We-dnesday, Hept. 23.-A discus- sion ut' plans for hike:;, ski parties, and other svorting events during· the current year featured the first meeting uf the Uniun Outing Club· held -tonight. Definite arrange- ments were made for the club's opening trip to Skiihabn on Octo- . ber· 10 a11d 11. · According to present plans the' group will leave on the first outing at 1:15 p. m. on Saturday, October ll!, from the Old Chapel. Those de- siring to go are to notify Walt Wil- liams at Room 7, Old Gym Dorm.· Dates ·of future excursions will be announced in Daily Assembly and un the bulletin boards. vValt Williams, president of the· organization, in a message to the student body urging pat·ticipation ill the cl ub'B activities :;ait.l in part: \The club is your and if you're in- tere~tetl in any uf the sports and t.!iverHions of the out-of-door::; it is· up tu you to benefit by joining it. There are nu membership dues or initiation fee and all that is re- quired uf a Ult'tuber is that he be a participant.\ Wednt-4day, St-lJt. 23. Ht·ynutuq.: hi,; at!dn•:-.s with the leltm·k that \WP niUkP thh; a lllOl'P t'ul'lg<'ll!Ul ro!!Pgt• all around.\ Hoi:Jet t ·1>. 'l•;wt e~t '37, prt•sit.!Pnt uf tllt• ,..;tud\nt rouncil and ,;tutl•·nt bo<ly, 1n daily a:;sentbly t utluy uu timed th ,. p1 u gnun whic•h hP hoped wuulli b£• ful· luwed out in t·he runnmg uf th<\ ~tudent govet·nment thi; yt•<,u. u., touchet.! only brielly on such puint:, us freshman rule:;, f! eH lunan ra lll{J. and active ui,;cu:;,;iJJn:-< at studen.t body meetings. Consiuen'lotion uf tlw \b~ llt·d up systl'lll uf fl·~,..hlliU!l l\ll>hltl g.· h\ Baid, would be a major pr·ul>lelll to be diBCUS:;ed and :;ol\•eti !Jy .tl:!e H(U· dent:; this year. Ev.-rE>st al,;o plophP<' ihl ., Hluck· lJ dinner this winl<·t th.11 w<>ultl b., ''PS!Jl'<'ially good.\ P1 !'(lUI :i t'l\ 11> at l' aln•ady undt•t· way fot· th ,. annual athll'ti£• dinnc•r ill th•• ~~·wna.,illllt om .. tinw in March. 0 Dr .. Bernard Bell Nitchman Makes Pui.Jiic Debut In First Contest as Coach Of Dutchman Squad Nelson His Assistant IVIiddlebUl'y Presents Lineup With Experience, Weight Ag-aim.;t Home Team The new students' fil'st ta:;te of college life was a bitter one, con- sisting of rising in time fur an 8:30 a. m. assembly, followed by a formal intmduction to the college library. After language placement tests, they were permitted to have lunch. -----0---- Cummins to Open Campaign Shortly This fall brings to Union representatives of four morr roun- trles. Left to right they are Herman D. ·Kluge, '40, of the Philippine Republic; Brian S. T. Simpson, '38, of York, England; Jo-se A. Ft•eire, '40, of Santiago de Cuba; William Schalll, '40, of Bogota, Columbia. Is First Preaeher Canon of Providence fhurch Will Open Series of Hunday Services \\'l\tiJIPs<.lay Sept. 23. A momen- tuu:; utlddic r:>ea.;ou f01 t:niun Cul- lq;c wilr ufJen tumutt·ow afternuuu \\lll·n Nl'i:;un \\'. Nitc:hnl<.tll make~ hi:; fit :;t official debut a~ head <'Uaeh uf the vat.;tly fuutball elenm in lht· opening contt':st of the sea· :-<un with Miudlt>bu1y College 'llith hi~ a, .. J,;tant, \\'altct· J. Nelson. The game will be played un Alex- andet· l<'ield, starting at 2 o'clock. Climaxing three weeks of strenu- uUtl ptactic:e, Coaches Neb Nitch- man and Duke Nelson today ran their team through the last stiff worlwut before the Middlebury game on Saturday on Alexander Field. Tomonow's workout will be in the form of a light signal drill They Drinlt Tea This afternoon they were enter- tained: at a tea given by Dean Margaret Bridgman for President and Mrs. Henry Moore, and tonight they had a rally unde!' the direc- Running as Independent With Democratic, American Labor Support tion of Miss Sally Tyr.e, '37. Dr. Earl E. Cummins is now en- Meanwhile upperclassmen at- tering the first hectic stage of his tended their own mass meeting campaign for election to Congress where Miss Doris Lehman, presi- from the 30th district of New York, dent of the student body, exhorted anu next week will see and hear them to act as good exemplars for him addressing many political and their younger sisters. \It is better civic groups. to be disillusioned slowly than all Running as an independent en- at once\ she is reported to have dorsed so far by the Democratic said. and American Labor parties, Dr. They Meet Again Cummins has a hard fight before After claims and counter-claims him to defeat the present incum- had re.duced the Amel'ican Railway bent, Republican Frank Crowther. Express to gibbering idiocy, groups He has challenged Crowther to of rapt listeners and non-stop elo- public: debate at any time, but has cutionists, the latter much in the received no answer. majority, settled many questions Poersch Says He's 0. K. that arose over the summer. Cries of \What did you do this summer\ Dr. Cummins chances for elec- and \Isn't he simply darling\ filled tion, according to Democratic the Saratoga air, mixed with the County Chairman Mathias Poersch familiar sounds of newly con- of Schenectady, are \all right. He structed dentistry clicking on slugs is aggressive and a fighter. Crowth- of gum and the watery scrunching er has gone to the post so many of apples. times in this district that there is They Look Good a possibility he may finally be When interviewed tonight, the spavined. He may even have worn Skidmore night operator would out his welcome.\ hazard no guesses on the freshman Besides voters in the American class not having seen it, but un- Labor Party, which though newly- official operatives of The Concordi- organized is gaining rapid support ensis report that the new freshmen in this district, Dr. Cummins is ex- achieve a fair standard of pulchri- peC'ted to win many votes among tude slightly in advance of other thP rank and file of the workers in the General Electric Company and years. other large Industries in and Skidmore College, the rush of around Schenectady. aC'tual opening over, is busily pi'e- \As u candidate Dr. Cummins paring for an experted invasion fits nicely into the picture with from the south beginning tomor- President Roosevelt and Governor row night. Special bulletins have Lehman.\ Chairman Poersch told been sent to all interested parties, a C'oncordiensis reporter. \B:e be- and one is reproduced here. . lieves in g-overnment for social wel- l. Freshmen are hereby warned fare, and that gibes with what the (Continued on Page 4l New Deal is doing.\ 0 Temporal 0 Mores! 0 Goodness! College Boys Ain't What They Were Dr. Fox on \Menaces~' 'Makes Columnist Think Although President Dixon Ryan Fox covered quite com- prehensively the subject of American youth, economic go- getters, and the saviors of free institutions in the speech which opened college Monday, Walter Winchell, pundit of pungency, has more to add on the subject. He -added it publicly In yes- terday's New York Daily Mir- ror, remarking, \Dixon Ryan Fox, president of Union College, insists that the day of the 100 per cent go-getter is over, and that the young men who go to college with the idea of wind- ing up rich are social menaces. .•. Many collegians, he ought to be glad to learn, are so scared of being social menaces, they aren't even eating.\ Fraternity Houses Undergo Repairs Kappa Nu in New Home, Others Painted, Refur· nished Over ~ummer Returning upperclassmen glowed with pride and freshmen rushees registered their approval as they eyed various improvements in the physical appearance of their re- spective fraternities. Freshly paint- ed exteriors, new sets of furniture, and redecorated interiors were among the improved effects that greeted undergraduates. Alpha Delta Phi h11-s completely remodeled the upper floor, painted upper and lower po1·ches as well as parts of the interior, and redecor- ated Its kitchen. Kappa Alpha has new furniture added to its living By JULIUS J. BUNDGUS room and a new coat of paint on its \The boys ain't what they used to and get an iC'e cream soda. No exterior woodwork. The living room Glee Clue Adds 22 For Coming Season Clubs Program fo1· Year Will Include Reg·ular Trips, Home Concerts with all contact work omitted so that the boys will be in the best Dr. Berna1d. I. Bell, canon of St. phy:lil'al and mental C'ondltion pos- Juhn'» Cathedral, Pruviden.ce, R. !., sible. The rPturn today of Jimmy will »peak at the Uniun College Riggs tu the :;quad brought the Chapel :oervices this Sunday. Sept- team tu full :>trength o11ce again eml.Jer 2ti, at ll.lf> o'clock in thP , 1 nJ, baning fl eak accidents, there .Memortal Chal><>l, ~<'hen<>rtady. Th~ wtll be nu <>lle out uf uniform for public:. 1s invitPtl to attPnu tlu,.; firot the initial fmy .. :wept possibly of the Yt•ur's >it'll\:< OJ St'l Vleeti, deul ge Hasltell Whu it! !1Ursing a Thursday, Sept. 24.- Twenty-two which at P :.tlso i:Jl o.td<•a,.,t by <1 \t 1 \n :<IJl allleJ hand \urfered in the new men have been admitted to WGY. t'tPBhman »rnumtage Wednesday. membership in the college Glee Dr. Dell WeiB gra<.luutt·d ftuzu t 1 • .- 1935: li-6; 1~36: ·t Club as a result of tryouts held University of Chicago iii 1.\JU\i and Midd!Pbury will present a lineup this week, it was announced toda.y secured the I.Jachelur·'s degrte m much tht> same that held the Dutch by IDdgar Moulton '37 and Frank sact·eu theology from the Wt••teiil men tu a tie last yea 1 -. With eight Gatchell '37, co-leadet·s uf the club. Theological Seminary in U:lll- Ten lettermen to bolster the team, The tryouts are not yet complete, years later, the .same school a'vard- which, though few in numbets, is however, they said, and any .stu- ell hlm the honorary degree l>f tl.oc- great in hPef. the .Panthers at·e dents desiring membership· should tor of divinity, and in 19~3. The looked to vut up a fme fight report to Dr. Elmer A. Tidmar:;h University of the South gave hun against t.he favored home team. at some time during the .next few the same degree. He i:; also a tloc- L:aptain l't·wg heads the Jist of aftet·noons. tor of pedagogy, through an hu.nor- veterans and fills in one end post, New Membet·s ary degree eonferred upun h.im In. the other being taken care of .by 1923 by the UnivE>rsity of thP StatP Kirk, a ntw man to the team. The The new members are as fol~ of New Yorlt, tackles are two lettermen, Seixas lows: baritones, John Van Laale '38, Was War Chaplllin. . and Cridlan d, both of whom range Burton Olmstead '40, Leslie Paff. 1 1910 D B 11 d t.! n r. e waH Pacon an ill the nelghborhoud of two hun- rath '39, Albert Borden '39, Lewis · t f th p t t t '·~ p 1 pl'leB o . e ru es an . .,.plsro a dt·ed pounds. Lov~ll will ~avort at Ames '40, Charles Guiles '40, and Ch h d f th t tl UIC , an or e 11ex 1ree the IJivot post, while the backfield Chester Robinson·, basses, Ed ward d th · f t h \t years serve as e VIcar o r \' will be handled by Chalmers, Stewart '40, James Walker '40, Will- Christopher Church in Oal1 Parlt, Buehm, Uua.maet'ia and Liljenstein, iam Rehbet·g '39, William Gormley III. He was Dean of St.. Paul's all uf whom have seen plenty of '40, and George Schall '40; tenors, Cathedral at Fond du Lac. Wis., action in previous years. Leonard Bull '40, Lindsay Goff ' 4 0, from 1913 to 1918 ant.! was also ex- IJniun wtll take to the field with J. 1'ietJ'en '40, B' . .Burnham '40, J. h 1 · 1 '- · '- f amining c ap am to t.1e uls~<OP u a highly 1ated outfit, which, how- Gt·abicke '40, David Preston. ' 40 • that dioC'P~E'. From 1917 to 191\1, lw et~l, ha,; b.,en rated unly by dint A. R. King ' 4 0, W. i:lhaw ' 40 • Peter· wa:o also aidP to the ~E>nior <'haplain uf its twu triumphs uver the re- Owens '39, and Ruben Kllnter ' 40 · at the Great Lakes Naval '!'raining serves In scrimmage sessions. Plans for the Glee Club are not Station. All in all, it is a very well bal- yet complete, but Carl Mar~hall ' 37 He waH pmft>ssot· of rei igiun at a.nc.-d outfit, although there seems is ananging a tenia tive program Cnlumbia University and until •1933, at present tu be a deficiency of which may include several local when he became honorary canun of eavable backfield replacement:;, appearances, a trip to Canajoharie St. John 'B Cathedral, he was war- Dennett being the only one appear- on December 4, the usual ap-pear- ances in cilapel ant.!. program uf den of St. Stephen's College al ing to have the necessary talent. Chri::;tinas music. It Is also ex- Annandale, N. Y. He be.canw a On \Ved.nesday aftetnuon in a trustee of that institution In that s.hul'l .:;cl'lmntage session, the fresh· peeled that the club will repeat c the concerts given. last season in year. ________ l_o_n_t_in_u_ed_o_n_P_a_g_e_4_> __ _ Buffalo, Binghamton, Elmira. and New York .. - -· --0·- --- Stage Shows Back Capitol in Albany Will Start Legiti- nutte Season at SI Top On Road Plays Camp May Ruin Frosh Seholarship; Good Time Urues Them to Stay Back be,\ agreed twenty-four of Schenec- wonder they C'an't tal1e it,\ he scof- · and dining room of the Chi Psi Wholesome and pr·etty inexpen- tady's barte11ders in answer to a fed. Lodge have likewise been painted.' sive dramatic fare is offered Union So enjoyable were the few· day,; ered among the freshmen a class spent by the 63 fresltn1en at the spirit which usually does not ap- first annual Freshman Camp that pear until much later. rna.ny students expresseu .a <.lesire Another freshman, Howard Ta- to remain freshmen during their ber, thought the camping period entire college careers so that they· was too short. \We should have rnight take advantage of the first s,pent a full week in camp,\ said week at Lake George. Fucult:y and he. \Things just got started when student counselors a.nd fns luru'n, we have to leave. The talks by when interviewed by u. member of the faculty gave ·llle an idea of The Coneordien~is staff, were en what to expect.\ query yesterday as to whether or This reporter also asked the a~- Kappa Sigma ~tudents this year by the new man- not the modern college student proximate number of beers today s agement of the Capitol Theall e in could compare with those of for- undergraduate could consume with- The uut:;ide of the Kappa Sigma Albany, which has promi~ed, at mer years in their ability to take out bPcoming intoxicated. Eleven Huuse ha:; been painted and repair- lea,jt, to bring up some well-known their liquor standing up. of the bar tmdl'rs set the figure at ed. P::;i Upsilon boa:ll.:; a nllW stove plays and player~ from nuw until \Why time was,\ said Joseph Brown of the Nichalous' taproom, a veter·an of pre-prohibition days, \when the boys would come in here and down eight of these without winking an eye.\ He held up a shakerful of gin, lime rickey and sugar, then set it down on the bar. \But nowadays,\ he continued, \they take two of them and can't walk straight. Why only the other night they carried a fellow out. He got tight on six beers.\ George spat into the receptacle at his foot and sighed, \Nope they ain't what they used to be.\ Twenty-three others agree with Joe. Of these, four find the same reasons for the weakness of the modern undergraduate. \The trou- ble with these young fellows,\ said one,\ is that they mix their drinks too much. They have a beer, glass of port and then a scotcl;l. Then, maybe on top of that they go out 12, while the others varied to the in its ltitchen and new furniture Spring. Their· ::~ea.~on opens next extent of five above and below that throughout the house. Theta Delta Monday night with u week'l:l run of number. Some contended that stu- Chi is converting another room into the naval comedy, \Sailor Beware.\ dents would become tipsy on five study quarters to house a larger Almost a.n extenl:lion of the \sub- beers, if it were of sufficient alco- number of students. way circuit\ in the Meti·opolitan holic content. Shiny, newly painted floors and a New York at·ea, the new Capitol Then came the question as to the coat of glistening white paint on policy is to bring up recent plays number of beers the pre-war stu- the front porch have improved the with as much of the New York cast dent could down at one sitting. appearance of the Delta Upsilon as possible. Prices will be low, There the number ranged from ten House. Kappa Nu, with a house en- maintained at $1.0() top for evening, to eighteen. This question brought tirely new to its members, boasts and a fifty cent top. fc>r matinees on another story from Joseph. \Why the greatest change of any frater- Wednesday and Saturday. back before the war, there was a nity, In its new location at the cor- Jack Stem, the new manager, young fellow that used to come in ner of Union Avenue and Gillespie promises faithfully to bring Ma- here e.very night. He'd order a lager Street. Painting, renovating, and dame Na2imova up in Ibsen's and empty it with one gulp. Yes new furniture have habilitated the \Hedda Gabl-er\ for at least one sir, he'd do that ten times in a half new large brick house. night, and also promises the Pulit- hour, and walk out of the shop The Delta Phi House has a com- zer pt•ize play, \The Old Maid.\ straight as a preacher. They told pletely redecorated first floor and \Sailor Beware,\ which ran for me he was a good student, too. And improvements on the roof are being 500 nights on Broadway, Is an up- that was beer, not the soapy tea planned. Phi Gamma Delta has im- roarious farce on one \Dynamite\ we've got nowadays.\ Whereupon proved its grounds, painted the Jones, the champion lover .of the Gem•ge tugged .upon his ear in front porch, and has obtained new Pacific fleet, Whose supremacy is reminiscence when several custom- furnishings and a complete new set challenged by the invincibility of a ers walked up to the bar, and re- of rugs. Theta Nu Epsilon also has young shore-resort hostess at Pan- callec}. Georj,l'e to \nowada;ys/' painted its inside and its porclles. ama. thu.slastic about thP camp ld~a. . Fritz Hawley, '38, counselor, Professm· Wilford H. Krtz, thP couldn't spend much time from his faPuity director of thE> camp, made tenni>< and shouted between shots: the following statement: \The- ramp \It's a darn good· idea which was for the purpose, fh·st, of giving be kept up.\ an opportunity to the class of '40 to become acquainted with th.elr The friendlinE>ss of faculty and classmates; secondly, for sho1ving studeuts was again emphasized by the fre:;hmen the frie>ndly spirit Fred. Bums, '40, \The freshman that prevai!H between the faculty camp was a wonderful idea. It got and the students; thirdly, to uem- the fellows acquainted and many onstrate tu the freshmen that the benefts were derived. from it. It college is vitally interested 1t1 them broke us into college life and gave as members of the student body. us an introduction to our profes~ David Hayner, '40, was fulsome l:lors. The camp showed us the co- in his praise of the camp. \It was· operation of the faculty with the a heclt of a Jot of fun,\ he said, students.\ \and I would likE> to go again. The ThE> last person interviewed was camp waH a success, and certainly Philip Duchscherer, '38, who re- accomplished its purpose of ac>- ma.rked, \I really think the camp qualnting ml\ with my classmate-s was u suC'cess and I hope to ·See it and some of the faculty.\ continue in the following years. Carl Faelten, '37, who acted as More freshmen should attend be- waterfront director, had this to cause those ther.e enjoyed them- say: \The camp enabled the camp- selves and came to know each ers to become acq,uainhd. rt fost- other.\

Two \ • .J Causa Persa Parole :lssai\ FOtJ!'oiDED 1877 !Q36 Member 1937 t:\ssociated Colle6iate Press Distributors of CoHe5iateDi6est Sui~ and exdu\1ve tmtiunul adverti!llng rt.•})l'e~euta.t i ve-:; =\.\T!U:'\.\1. .\llVERTI::ll=\l1 SEH\\ll'E liH\ 42U :\Jadl\on A\'enue :--:~\ Yotk City l .. htc.Lgu ~ Ho:-tuu - ~an Ftand~t·u - Lo:s Ane;t:lt:~ Portland - s~attlt> The official newspaper of the :;tudents of Union College. Published Tuesda~s and Fri- dars throughout the college year, except dur- ing Christmas and Spring t·ecesses. Publication ·Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 - -- - ----~----- Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription Jll ice Five cents a copy; $3 00 a year; del!~~_:ed _ _!lny:v~ere in the U~ited States. Editox ial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College >Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. ·----·------- -- Senior Board Nor man R. Stewaxt ............ Editol-in-Chief t~hi P:;t LoJg~;: -1- tj~~~ S. Ralph Cohen ............... Managing Editor 5 S. S. S. L' 4-76~8 Fsnton A. Gage ................... News Editor I lelta Upeilou Huustl-4·7~22 Milton D. Bedell. ................. Spmts Editor D~lta Upsilon Huuse-4-7!•22 Donald Ford .............. Circulation Manager <'hi l'st Lodge-4-6527 James W. Righter ........... Business Managex· Delta LTpsilon Huuse-4-7922 -----=_c..:.--=~~--'--:---··-- . Junior Board ASSOCIATE EDITORS Julius Bundgas Willard Dean Edward Barry Robert Doig Hyman Enzer Henry Hartmann Robel't Ferguson Melvin Muroff Carl Trahman Sophomore Board Assistant Editors M. Depp, F. Hequembomg, E. Houghtaling, P. Humphrey, F. Saidel, D. Taft, R. Walter, R. Morgan, D. Miller, J. O'Brien, B. Rathbun, J. Sherman, J. Smith Managing Editor .•.••.... S. Ralph Cohen Assistants H. A. Enzet· W. Dean C. Trahman September 25. 1936 MJ~DIREC'I'ED rRITH'I~M In all fairness t(} the genius in President Fox's opening address, we feel obliged to take issue with the editor of the Schenec- tady Union-Star for his criticism of it in Tuesday's issue of his paper following the speech. It would seem quite evident that this gen- tleman has !llisconstrued, or at best misin- terpreted, the meaning of pat·ticular words and thoug·hts. For instance his most virulent attack pertains to a passage discussing the p1·ogram, a political one. to which young Fas- cists and Nazis direct and offer theit· faith. Here, the editor felt, lay the meat of the a.J- dl·ess, and it should have provoked a reply to European nationali::;tic programs with au American scheme. We are confident that our Pt·esident did not intend to involve him- self in a political discussion. It was brought into the theme to facilitate the comparison of Fascist and Nazi education to American. The critic in deprecating the remarks of Dr. Fox has taken a part of the whole to prove the whole is fallacious. Perhaps if he had read the whole speech more carefully, he woul.d not have made the mistake that youths of America are bewildered because the universities do not clarify life's meaning, do not direct and inspire young men, nor give them any sense of relationship to large purpose. As a matter of fact the editorial conveyed an idea of the address directly op- posite from the spoken words. Careful an- alysis would have revealed the true thought and meaning of the speech to the critic. SIGNALS, FOOTBALL AND PROGRESS The opening of the 1936-37 football sea- son tomcm·ow returns to college life an in- tegral part of what has been considered as \collegiate.\ Around football has centered all of the one-time coonskin coats, empty gin bottles, and \rah-rah boys,\ and \die for dear old Siwash.\ ·THE CONCORDIENSIS, FIUDA Y, SEPTEMBER 25, 1936 : : = = That feeling seems to have died out of II II IN THE MAIL late, at least at Union. There is no one who SECRET SERVICE • To the Editor: TI10Ut'llS its passing. . The Student Service Bureau has Yet there is another spit·it, also \college since its inception five yeat:s a?o CJN:EMA By JOHN B. DOWLING t vVelcome to all you Iuc!;:y, lucky, been struggling along 011 a vane- Robert 'Montgomery, the peren- spirit,\ that we might well develop within fellows who are to have the rare gated course, but this year _we feel ourselves. We have I.Jeen apolog·etic, we hav~ privilege of xeading our :opicy clmt-. that we have a very detlmte pta- nial playboy of the motion pictur·es, tet· dming the coming year. You· gram which if successful will not has often been accused of over- been meek wh.en confronted by men fron1 bury the skeletons and we'll guar- only add to the prosperity of the doing that engaging qua:Iity of antee to exhume them. Fun for all; organization but will be a sple;n~ld other· schools. Far from being- W illillg to \dit ~nd all fm· fun. I?un and gu!ltes, asset to the college in the providmg whimsy which is his chief asset. for dear old ,Union,\ we have even felt a just fun and games, boys. of employment to deserving boys. Though, within my memory, Mr. • • • The moulding of the bmeau ~e- Montgomery turned his hand to a little chary alJout admitting th~tt we g·o 1 Everybody knows by this time of, pends lat·g~Iy on the ·cooperatiOn more setious role at his own wish, there. the mass production of the D. U.';:; extended it by the student body ,;o why speak of that-hut what we and it i» my intention to point.out the whimsical seems to fit him bet- Thet·e is no long.er any neeu for this. want to know is when are they go- some or the benefits to be denved ter, ,for that one venture was not h · .. t t know each · t\ too happy. True, he did well in a Union todav i\ ll.IOSt det'l.lll'telj' !lOt \'lla't t't ing to have t eu ge · o- - - from such a·n associa ron. J \' vv other\ ;;molter? We uli know that Union College strong melodramatic role in \The was when the p1·eseut senior::; first saw the· • • • men have a very large buying Big House,\ but that was long ago ·· t th lum h th and before he had developed his Hill. Ph.vsically, and ce1·tain Jv educationally, t 'l'he jolly Chi Psis ge e P ·,power and ·that eac year · t;Y talt>nt for light comedy. J fut· the p1 ize coup of a tumultuous ;;pend u g 1 eat deal of money Ill Unil:!ll ha::; atl Vi:lllCed in three years -so much nt:;hing wet>k· witne-'ls the escot t SchenectuJy ftum which a profit is The full fruition of that develop· one freshman had for a luncheon derived. Why should not some of ment appe-ars in \Piccauilly Jim\ SO that her students must realize this pro- engagement with the Beta lads. this be diverted to the pockets of current at Proctor's. Montgomery gress 01' be unworthy of her. Chaperon Bradbury! our own students. Secondly the Bu- gambols ,through this P. G. Wade- • • • reuu is in a position to lender serv- house tale with a restraint and 1'hi::; year's football team is ulmost sym- t Then there i~ the story of the :Psi ice,; at downtown pricB:; and in feeling for the values of his lines bolic of the new conditions. Under a new u l>Ophomore who aslted a Sig for many ca,;es ala discount. Our laun- that proclaims that he is well on a r·ushing date. dry service you will find is very his way out of the doghouse, that deal in coach ill!!' and elig\il:Jilit v the ne\'v' • • • hard to beat and ah eady a tie-up he has his second wind. ~ J t Stude Chairman Everest was in d eleven stands a bette!' challC to be tl'Lil Iare fot·m t\n chapel :when he passed in clothing is being arx'ange To tell the plot, as involveq as e Y which, if it mater.iallzes, will mean axe all Wodehouse piots, would be t t . f 1 1. the rema1 k that something is l\epresen a lVe o t 1e uest team Union can wrong with the present rushing a fiv.: per cent reduction of all to repeat ~he hilarious difficulties · tl 't h · T b Union students. The~e are tangible which beset all. impecunious car- Ol'gamze, '1an 1 as Ill many years. he system. Pleas; s~e ~ ave. re:>ults that mean money saved to toonist when it turns out that the entire student body should be in the stllnds 1 It's in.:>piring to see in what a those who use our services. family which he caricatures in a t d f · d d f n 1 ess Freddy Bronner could leave According to our ptesent plan new strip is that of the girl he Ol1lOI'l'OW, prou 0 Its tea,m, an prou 0 the library m one short year. employment is open to any fresh- loves. Cleverly directed, comically the college it represents. • • • man desiring to do his bit. By a written and zestfully acted by such t What a luxury Hale House has gradual process of elimination stalwarts a!l Eric Blare, Frank Mor- become to the Frosh. But cheer up based on a merit system the future gan and Cora Witherspoon, the boys you'll be better men for 100 senior and junior managers will be film could not fall of success as a less beets. selected from this group. Positions light, fast, though slight picture. in yeats to come promise to be well This is one of the better examples worth the effort necessary. Our of the thing Hollywood does best. services are many and we believe The column recommends \Piccadil- will increase. At present we handle ly Jim.\ THE FRESHMAN CAMP No one can doubt the success of the B'reshman Camp, sponsored by the the Union YMCA to introduce properly the campe1·::; to each other. It broug·ht to them a fuller ap- preciation and understanding of the union of young men of all classes, cJ•eeds, and c·ate- gorie8, which forms the oasis of ,Union, be- fore fl'aternities had an opportunity to warp theie attitud-e. • • • t We notice in the dormitory rules that moral delinquency will be dis- ciplined. Just what constitutes rnorai delinquency must furnish some juicy discussions for the fac- ulty. It seems a feller just can't have fun anymore. • * • t It is inspiring to see how well the Concordy has done in the national college newspaper rating which all goes to show what one good col- umn can. do for this sheet. • • • t We could pile much more but as good things should come in small quantities we are going to keep you ou pins and needles for another week. So adios fellow urchins lili a sandwich route, sen refreshments VAUDEVILLE! AH! at the games, and have several other departments in the process of As far as I am concerned it is development. Princeton, Yale, Cor- practically a civic duty to support nell, and countless other institu- vaudeville. For that reason and tions have similar organizations. since I enjoy a variety turn, no Why shouldn't Union save herself matter how bad it is, this column expense? will be very friendly to the split- The significance, and what is most de- ::;erving of praise and cuimueut, l'ests with the manner in which the camp was con ducted. Credit goes to the stU:dents and faculty alike who assisted together to n1an· age the entire camp save tl1e actLtal cooking of the food. All fraternity biases were kept silent; the only consideration was given on Sunday when a few houses sent groups up there on a visit. All met on the common then. We firmly believe that the S. S. B. week, three-a-day such as will can and will be a very definite asset grace Proctor~s through the winter. to Union. We are not asking for This week-end's bill features the chanty from our fellow students rnan who was so recently pursued for we are convinced that we can across the ocean by Sarah Church- be of definite value to them and to ill, the daughter of Winston the college and that our services Churchill, the British statesman. ar.: good and competent, but we do You have read about it for the past Es, Es, and Bee appeal to members of the Student week. He is Vic Oliver (real nam·e, ___ , 0 ,~-- Body to give us its support in what- Joe Blatz) a Viennese comedian JUST IN JEST soever way it can. for only by such and Sarah or no Sarah, he works cooperation can the full potential- in the best txadition of the single ities of this organization be 1·eal- comics. He is assisted by the usual ized. Our office in Silliman Hall lovely girls and they are well Ye Olde Edrtor has a brainstorm will be open every afternoon from trained and really- decent looking. thi::> summer and dectded that what 2:00 to 4:00 and we welcome all ap- The rest of his company is compe- this rag ne.:ded was bigger und bet· plicants for jobs u1· persons Inter- tent, but Oliver is the spice. May ter columns !Attention F. H. and ested in using om services to call the rest of the year be as happy. J. B. D.l S0-0-0-0, he called on on us then. Fuxther Downtown me. That sounds egotistical, doesn't Very sincerely, it? Well, a columnist has to be ego- G. P. HASKELL, The State's current feature is gruuw.l uf guud fellowship. Tlte camp !JI'o-• tbtbt!. Luuk ttl G\-ui:sun Helm, 1 Senior Manage 1 China Clipper with Pat O'Brien. \d d ll , . . . and Dowling. it pours out of therr I Since that opened today it could Vl e a manner of entet\ta1nment In which ears. Enough M this prattle. What . not be reviewed, but the column wa8 seen individual 8 kiJl as well as team CO· I started out to say was--if any- twus, clever and easy to get along hopes you didn't 111iss the .past fea- body has any suggestions on how with. If Union has a lousy season ture, \Seve-n Sinners,\ a Gaumont- opei·ation in action. The lJoys thus all tttade to better this column tear off the it won't be their fault. The fault British melodrama with Edmund f · d 1 · 1 · h 1 · · h top uf a V-8 and send it in with the will l>e the college's; it just hasn't Lowe and :lovely Constance Cum- l'!en Sups W IIC ot lei\Wlse uug t h-ave suggestions. Address all commum- given them the material. mings stepJJing through some good been hindered by fratemity l.J~uTiels uf cations tu S. Ralph Cohen. If 1 W. W. M. situations and excellent, spicy lines. · d' d · a1 don't read 'em, he will. ---------------------·---___:__:__::..__ __ preJU ICe an l'IV ry. YOU TELL ME .. _what faculty \/: '· ~ 1'here is, however, one consideration that member made the remark \I have t·~ . .u,~/1 1 1 · b \l\f\ d a better ~hance of being elected to ~- IS to e VIlle; namely, that ::lOllle means congress than CunUUlll\ and ltu YOU/l lOOSE CHANG£ . \\--it-:-: .f.J .'·~~~,·, ::;hould be found to pay the expenses of l.Juard not running .... what well known ~~ I! ' seniot imbiber was poured out of a ~ ID: . ; ~~~~ _; and 1'00111 to the student counsellors. In many Pterce-Arruw last Friday aftexnoon -- cases these men had to relinquish their at 3 o'clock and put to bed by hb fraternity brothers ... why haven't positions in order to attend the camp. It is the Alpha Dell's pledged the ex- haTdly fail' to expert them to do this. If tlw change srholar ... who pamted the Idul ... who tn ·\11 gav~ \epnet a , administration could see it::; way tu elimiuat- scholar•hip ... why we tolet ale ' ing- this situation, an important obstacle Dlcl<ie'\ student tux committee ... what student coun•elior~ violated would be hurdled. We hope the uext camp the tt·ust and confidence placed m \II · 1 them by the Student leadet by WI reCeiVe as nUIC I SUpp011. and 1110l't', and 1 u,;hing when hb back wa.s turued that the same ideals will prevail so that fra- · · · what counseloz thought he had I . . made a killing by a~king a par ttc- 1 termty politics and rushing will be absent. ularly good looking freshman to ::>lay at his nouse for the first week I only to lose him to another house SKIDMO!RE HEll. . . who is going to take Sunny Reynold's job planting flowers in Jackson'.s gardens ... what frater- nity refused to give the Concordy the number and names of Its pledges because they only had one After the opening of the football season, . . . what -oh 'ell, what the use. the biggest news of the weekend is the .Right now th~ toughe~t assignment . . 1•n the world ts to wnte a dirt col- openmg of Skrdmore Colleg.e-, to the north uf t.unn for a Friday Issue. Nobody us. Tha:t accomplished by a convocation this gets ught, nobody l?oes to SkidmOJe <at least not yet) m the middle of morning, Union College life as we have the week Everything happens on k . \II b . l a] the week-end. nown 1t Wl e en:trre y norm • . ADD INSEPARABLES ... wee- Within a month the Outing Club will be willy Ketz. and hi~ pipe ... Jack I . . . . , . Nott and hts bow ties . . Mike En- 1avmg Jornt outmgs, the A. !::>. U. Will be zer and his enthusiasm ... Prex working up enthusiasm with assistance from Fox and his coat lapels ... Kapp~ . Nu and a high scholastic average the northern chapter, the Mountebanks • some of our \best\ fraternities Theatre will be angling for play exchanges ~naldl' a low dscholastic average ... . • , . tson an a new car <I wonder and each Saturday IUght the fraternity what happens to. the \old\ ones> houses will move bodily to the Saratoga ~f h~~~~~ll and his senseless sense campus. PREXY EVEREST HITS THE N · th' d' · NAIL ON THE HEAD· \Th b' or IS IS con Ibon at all rep1·ehensible. gest farce in Union t~da .e 1 hg- sk \d h b h' Y ts t e 1 more as een called \Union's finishinO\ rus mg system, or rather, the lack , . . \\ of system.\ . school so often now that the phrase is al- PREDICTION: Ferd Helm d most trite, but like many tl\ite sayings it is .Johnnie Davis' I~ol will be the ~~t • campus show smce the da s f a true one. Playing football, pelting· friends Cory. _ Y 0 at Iacross, and even publishing a college lu~~u!he~~CLEu iWIL:LY ~oesn't r n on 1s gorng to paper are apt to make the participant forget have a successful season on the f th • I 't\ d gridiron or not. Your Uncle Will some o e SOCia amem 1es, an exposm·.e does know, however, that Nitchma~ to them once a week is higltly beneficial. ~nd Nelson al'e doing a bang-up JOP. :eotb. are entb.\.lsi~lltil:l, ~mbt- . Iron out your laundry • worries SWIFTLY- SAFELY - L.et that depen?able college pal, Railway Ex:press, ptck up and shtp your laundry horne a:nd back for you every .week. You will find it glossy going- easy, fast, mexpensive. Merely !1-otify the folks you will send the pack- age by Rat! way Express, and ask them to return it the same way, You can send it collect too you know,_ and while on that subject, we can add; only by Railway Express. The folks will understand It ~aves keeping accounts, paying bills, t<> say noth~ mg of spare change. .Y~u'll find the idea economical all round The mmtni~m rate is low- only 38 cents- sometimes !ess. Ptck:up and delivery by motor vehicle and msuran~e mc~ud:d in the shipping charge. It's the sat?e wlth shtppmg baggage or any-thing else by ~atlway Express. So arrange your shipping dates Y phone call to the Railway Express agent and start now. ' Cor. Wall and Liberty Sts. r Phone 4-So 12 I DEPOT OFFICE: N.Y. c. STATION Phone 4 • 8512 Schenectady. N. Y. RAIL~AY EXPRESS AGENCY, INC'. NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE ! : I' ) . Touch When a f,vater In this tournar awarded '50 poin·l therein. T)lere points awarded · eac'h game. For are .entered in tl the tournament i elimination ,basi~ to win tbe cham 4 games. Accor 100 additional . awarded to the 100 divided by ' 25 paints to eao game won. If ' conducted upon tion basis, as wa~ it is theoretical games to be play victory will scor winner of the tau will receive 100 of the number of a team forfeits t both the entram additional points quire d. Fall ' i·.:: A fraternity i entrance points i must enter and • men. Additiona awarded on the The group which est number of vi< nament will be ner and receiv award of 65 poinl award (6B pointl number of victo1 wiru1er gives th \, game ,won. Thi plied by the n um :{ by a group will g tional award f01 bye shall be cou1 If a player forfe group shall lose entrance .points a points he may h minimum loss shl Fall Outd Team of at le8 ,, tered and compe awarded the 40 Additional points in the following winning team sco the 60 additional by 30 giving 2 po l l l for eacl1 point sc ner only scores point scored will Football 1 To acquire the : in this meet B me and compete. T points shall be av the additional poi the highest team tient is the vall j scored in the n multiplied by the any one group w tiona! points for 1 Swim Team of at lea tered and compel awarded the 40 Additional points in the following winning team sea the 60 additional by 30 g-iving 2 po · { for each point sc• 1 ner only scores I point scored will ! Foul S j To acquire the ' { I I j J { \ a fraternity musl pete a team of The scores of up t of any one group g<et the total of group scoring th~ of fouls will be ' ner and receive U tiona! award of (J additional points as follows: the are divided. by th• goals made by tl This quotient is 1 foul made in the { multiplied by the '.t.. any one group w l tiona! points for ~ Baski When a fra tern in this tournamer 50 points for pari There shall be awarded for each example, last yea leagues of 10 tea tournament a t1 ,iJ could win 9 Ieag :,i extra games in 1 play-offs. Theref tiona! points to t1 by 11 equals 9.091 won. The champ receive 10() addit spec.tive of the r won. If two tear. of a league, the o: not count for points. Forfeitur · nullifies the ent.J any additional po acquired. A team of 5 me1 and compete in or 40 entrance poin; tiona! points sha: follows: The add divided by the h of games won. the value of each meet. This value total number of g one grouli ~f/ill gi points· for. }hat g1 f()rfeits his matcl 1 ose his ·position paints and any his group may h minimum 1o~s shi (Colltinu.ed ll

s, a d ! : I, ! .. r I I .: I' ) . i· ... II INT~MURALS Touch Fm,tball When a f·vaternity enters a team In this tournament it ~h~ll ;be awarded '50 points for pat tlClp~t!On therein. T)leze shall be ~dd~ftonal points awarded for the w1nnmg of, eac·b game. For example, 16 teams are .ente1•ed in ·t.he tol\rnament.. If the ·tournament 1s run on a straight elimination ·basis, a team, in ord~r, to win the championship, must. wm: 4 games. According to the chart, 100 additional points are to be awarded to the winner, therefore,· 100 divided by 4 gives a total of 25 paints to each team for eac.h game won. If the tournamen~ 1s conducted upon a double el!mma- tion basis· as was the case th1s fall, it is tbeoreticaHy possible for 8 · games to be played, theref?~e, ·each victory will score 12'-h po1nts. The winner of the tournament, however, wlll receive 100 points ir-respective of the number of games played. If. a team forfeit:;; two games it loses both the entrance points and any additionrul points it might have ac-. quire d. Fall Temlis A fraternity in order to score entrance points in this· tou.rnament must enter and compete ·at least 3 men. Additional points will be awarded on the following basis: The group which scores !he great- est number of victories in the tour- nament will be declared the win· ner and receive the maximum award of ()5 points. The maximum award (6B points) divided by the number of victories scored by the winner gives the value of each game won. This quotient multi- plied by the num~er of games wo~ by a group will g!Ve the total addl· tional award for that group. A bye shall be counted as a victory. If a player forfeits his match, his group shall lose his portion ·Of the entrance .points and any additional points he may have earned. The ' minimum loss shall be .W points. Fall Outdoor Track Team of at least B must be en- tered and compete in order to be .... awarded the 40 entrance points. l l l Additional points shall be awarded in the following manner: If the winning team scores 30 points then the 6() additional points are divided by 30 giving 2 points to each team for each. point scorecL. If the win- ner only scores 20 points, each point scored will count at 3. Football Field Meet To acquire the 30 entra.uce points THE CONCORDIENSIS, FJUillAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1936 Seve,n Garnet Football Veteran..s Will Oppose Middlebury Tomorrow u u '>/MNK 9. 0/lTCIIeU. TACKL£ Union College will present the above veteran lineup tomot< row afternoon in the opening football game of the season on· Alexander Field against Middlebury College, intact. Injuries which caused a bit of d'oubt this week concerning tlte Dutcll- men's starting array have been cured and all men are re- ported in good physical condition. The positions for these men are: Tennis Regulations . : L A:ll play en; MUST wear TEN- NIS SHOES with soft pliable soles. <Basketball and other types of shoes a1e not accept· able>. ~. Students and Faculty only shall be permitted the use of the cou1 ts. 3. Doubles ::;hould he played whetleVel' possible ~u as to in- sure use of the eul:ll'ts to the maximum number· of players .. 4. If 1)ersons are waiting to play, both :;Ingles and doubles 1natches are tu bt' permitted · to finish their :;et before va- cating. In the event that the · :>et goes tu deuce, play :ohall s tu!J at unce. ·. 5 'Phe tennis courts will clo~e on week days at 6 .UO p m. o. Play un Sunday »hall be re- stricted to the hours of 1 p. m tu 5:30 p. m., and all playPrs must be dre:;sed in a '('LEAN WHITE COSTUME. 7. Wot krnen engaged in repair- Ing ut· marking th-. eoud:; a:·e to be permitted to complete . their ta:;k before play can start. 8. The caretaker shall be sole judge a:; to the u:.~e uf the courts after rainy weather-. 9. Children of the Faculty Mem- bers shall be permitted the use of the courts if any are vacant but NEVER tu the ex· · elusion of the two above naJned groups. 10 Use of the indoor court on the gymnasium will be re- served for the varoity squad 1vhen Inclement weather !Jro- hibits their practiee outdoors. 11. Violators of the above 1 ule:, will be denied the pli vileg~; of using the courts. General Office Equipment Co. !l40 Jay St. Phone 4-9677 lilrafting Supplies - Paper Pencils Fountain Pens TYPEWRITERS NEW- USED Thursday, Sept. 24.-Charles Daly, i R • c1 who president of the Pyramid Club, re- ! epatre Rented 'Three Frosh Gym Equipment Use of Gym The gymnasium floor having Frosh Gym Equipment will bf.' is- , been refinished, it is nece~~aty that sued fi'Om the Gymna:>ium Stock-/ u ~tr let obtiervance of the rules per- lOom between the hom·s of 1 p. m. taining to it:o use be adhered to, and 5 p. m. upon Pl'e»entation uf I The wearing of dean rubber the Bursar's receipt. LockPl'>l will 1 :.;oled :ohoe:; iti requir·ed uf all. also be ussignt>d a.t thi:< time, UJ•ull 1 Violator::; uf this t·ule will be pe1· paym .. nt of one dol lur d<\]Jo:lit nwnt·ntly t•xciudetl froru the W:le of whieh will ue 1 t>funded in June, tht\ facilitie:;. 0 Tht• :;wimming pool will be open from 3 p. m. to 5 p. lll. every week- SophomOl't':-> day PX:<'ept Saturday, AH those interested in beeutnin~ candidate managet s of tht> fu,,t 1•.111 ; team should ·report tu l-'tofe,,u! J i Harold Wittner· at the Oymn:..t:llllll ur William G. B'onuan ut the I 'L• ; Sigma Kappa House at urH'P. Steefel Says CAPITOL THEATRE Albany Wt•t\k Beginning Jluu., Sept. I!>, 'J.h<' [ Jlfuurluus Xu \'Ill ( u'llwd ~ SAILOR BEWARE! \1 ith :-<. Y. l'n~t & Prntlut'tlon ;,uu Thnt·~ un Broadwa.y ~E <IS :SOW: E1~~. 25c to $1.00 )Int. 40~ • ;;oc Here Fellows is a coat +hat has no respect for the calendar. With its warm zip-in inter· lining you are read1 to face the coldest days. With just the tweed shell it makes an ideal topcoat. Styled in the smart Balmac- can model rnaking this a great all season coat. Priced at $35 and up J( rrli!Jif!!ltrJ!J SI'EC//11. U F t; i'ltt~l''.J FWPIV/FN DOY.Jt.IIA'JS ALBANY, N. Y. in this meet B men must be entered and compete. The 45 additional paints shall be awarded as follows: the additional points are divided by the highest team score. This quo- tient is the value of each point scored in the meet. This value multiplied by the points scored by any one group will give the addi- tional points for that group. Paul Campbell, end; Captain Ernie Brown, halfback; Jack Smith, half- back; Captain Bill Potts, right guard; Jim Riggs, left guard; Frank Gatchell, left tackle; and Van Ladd-the only junior played last year, right tackle. sigrred from his post at the first~~:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::::=:=:=:=:=~~:=:=:=::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::-::::::::-::-=:::~::-::::::~::~:=::-::--::::~::::::::::::::~::-::::-:=-::-:-' ~~~VISIT~THE ~~ FOR HIGHER GRADES IN COLLEGE Swimmbig Team of at least 4 must be eu- te!'ed and compete in order to be awarded the 40 entrance points Additional points shall be awarded in the following manner: If the winning team scores 30 points then the 60 additional points are divided by 30 giving 2 points to each team · for each point scored. If the win- , j ner only scores 20 points, each 1 poln t scored will count as 3. l Foul Shooting j To acquire the 40 entrance points · a fraternity must enter and corn- { pete a team of at le.ast 10 men. 1 The scores of up to the ·first 15 men ., of auy one group will be added to g~.>t the total of that group. The 1 group scoring the highest number · of fouls will be declared the win- :: ner and receive the maximllll1 addi- . \ tiona! award of 60 points. The 60 :1! additional points shall be awarded 1 as follows: the additional point!' 1 are divided. by the total number of ' goals made by the winning team. \. This quotient is the value of each · foul made in the meet. This value { multiplied by the fouls scored by •t any one group will give the ad ... •- l,• tiona! points for that group. Basketbilll. 1 When a fraternity enters a team t in this tournament it shall receive l 50 points for participating therein . . l There shall be additional points 1 ·M awarded for each game we>n. For ~~ example, last year there were two ;\ leagues of 10 teams. To win the tournament a team theoretically H could win 9 league games plus 2 ':\\ extra games in the- cban1pionship ·f play-offs. Therefore, the 100 ad·di- tional points to the winner divided by 11 equals 9.091 points per game won. The championship team will receive 10() additional points irre- spective of the number of games won. If two team tie for the lead of a league, the olay-off game shall not couut for any ad-ditional points. Forfeiture of two games nullifies the entrance points and any additional ·points that :may be acquired. A team of I> men must be entered and compete in order to receive the 40 e11trance points. The 60 addi- tional points shall be awarded as follows: The additional points are divided by the highest team total of games won. This quotient is the value of each game won in the meet. This value multiplied· by the total number of games won by any , one group 1 }'\'ill give the additional points· for ~'hat group. If a. player fe>rfeits his match his group shall lose his ·position of the entrance points and any additional points · . his group may ·have earued. The minimum 1o~s shall be 10 points. (Colltinued 1n next bJSI.le). Books Magazines BOOK CENTER 204 NOTT TERRACE We can save you 15/'o of list price on all ne;-t;'xts. Come in and ask. CIRCULATING LIBRARY School Supplies ·::m::m:m:::;:m:mm:m:::m::m:::m::.::::m::::::;::m::::mimm:d::mm:m:::m::::m:m:::m:::m::mmm:::m;;J ill E I UNION COLLEGE I BOO·K STO·R.E FEATURES PARKER PENS and SCHOOL NEEDS FOR ALL COURSES COMPLETE LINE OF BOOKS LAUNDRY BAGS FELT GOODS and STATIONERY Regular Hours 8:45 .. 12:00 I :15.. 5:00 Hours lst6 Weeks 8:45 ~ 12:30 I :00- 5:00 Room 5-Administration Buildin9 fm::iUlE:!n;:um:mi::m::::mH:m:m::m:;:nn::m:::um:m::::m:;u:::m:::m:::u::um::n::::m::m::i!m:m::ml:i' Get the Pea That .Never Runs Dr•y in £lasses or Exaiii.S ' The AII·Amei•ieau ~ollege Favorite lJTitlt Double Ink Capacity and Full-length Visible ln1' .Supply Shows DAYS AHEAD Wlten It's Running Low Do the thing that you know is the thing to do-replace your old-style pen with this miracle Vacumatic- Parker's revolntionary invention that bolas 102% more ink WITH- OUT INCREASE IN SIZE-that shows the ENTIRE ink supply, not merely the last drop-shows not vnly -when your pen is empty, but allows DAYS AHEAD when it's ru:nning l6w, so it CAN'T run dry a~ainst your will! Today the Parker Vacumatic is the world's long-distance writer and Style and Beauty Winner-the sac- less marvel whose simple working parts are sealed in the top-never touched hy ink, hence won't cor- rode or fail. That's why it's GUAR- ANTEED Mechanically Perfect. In the hands of millions of users, using all kinds of ink, this marvelous pen has repeatedly proved that it \can take it\ anywhert> and any time -it never leaves its owner gasping for ink in classes or exams. If you'll go and try its marvelou~;~ SCRATCH-PROOF Point of pre· cious Pia tinum and Solid Gold, you'll give your old-style pen to the rum- mage sale. Look for the smart ARROW clip-this ARROW identi- fies the genuine. The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis. 1>arker ~ VACl!MATIC:':E;:::3 GUARANTEED MEtHANltAlLY PERFECT Junior, $.5 • Pencils, $2.50J Over·Size, $10 · $3.50 and $5 I

Four -THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRlDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1936 Hale House Notices Union Host to Middlebury· In Game Here rromorrow Dean's List For Last Period Shows Marlied Decrease Students a1·e requested to appear in Hale Hou::;e in as good sartorial order as possible at all times. No shirt-sleeves will be tolerated, and coats should be worn at dinner. -tContinued from Page 1) men, who are coached this year by Art Lawrence, ran through a very wealc ·reserve outfit, which was composed chiefly of thit·d stringers. Lawrence has unveiled a powerful running and vassing aggregation, and with Passe and Hammerstrom doing much of the ground gaining and with Cramer and Krull bul- warlcs in the line, the yearlings should have little trouble in at least equalling the record set up by last year's team. Final Honor Roll Includes N ineteeu Fewer Names Tban on April List All freshmen who have not al- r·eady d.one so are aslted. to report for theit· weekly dinner tickets, so that the nig.ht they plan to attend may be recorded. Total of 225 ::5eniors Read List With 63; Juniors and Sophomores Nex.t \Vith 51 and 50 'The Dean's List fur high scholar- tihip for the 1inal quarter of 1935-36, just 1 eleased, mention~ a total of ~25 students of the four classes, ninett·en less than the uumiJer list- ed. for the prevwu::; ),Jet iud. of l:.t::;t year. Included on the li:>t ate sixty- three of this yeui'::; ::;t•niui::l, tifty-une juniors, and tifty ::;ophomure::;. The men who met the schular»hip requiiem.,nl\' of eighty per cent ot above are as followo>: Class of 1939 WallacE' F'. Baker, Raymond W. Barclay, Lon H. Barringer, John A. Bigwood, Douglas K. Blue, John W. Britten. 'Thomas A. Burl,e, JL, Bradford W. Buttner. Bernatd F. CatTail, J use!Jh Cliffonl. RolJet t A. Controy, James B. Curley, Dumin- tck DeLtsa, .Ma1 \'in Dwute. David W. Godfrey, Fredetiek W. Hequembourg, \Vtlliam Hod.ges, Sumner B. ltish, Stephen Jacobs, Melvin D. Lavender, Stanley R. LiclJman, ~liltun n. Lunt;, Juhn M. Malone, Frank MelE'. Reuben Mer- chant, David B. :Miller, Frank L. Moon•, Jr .. Ralph D. Morgan, Jr .. \Villiam Muirhead. Irving J. Nelick, Frank H. Nolte, Loui:> E. Page, Jr., Joseph E. Paul, Renata C. Pomatti, Benjamin Rath- bun, Jr .. Edward C. Retartyk. Myer Ries, Frank Saidel, Bemard A. Shapero. Howard E Shpff.,r. \Vakt-tit:!d T. Shugg. Hubert A. Squire, T Doug- las 0. StPvPnson. Averill T. StE>wart. Kenneth B. Streeter, William T. Thom:lo<, James C. P. '\'ad<>. <1••orgP T. C. W·av Alford \V. Whit,. Ht•r- bert F. Z~Ihr Ou.ss of l!l:ll! H. Li!Ul'f'llCP AchillE'S, Jr. Hat old B. Ackermr~ n. Jr .. Delevan Annett. Raymond G. BabPni~. Carl B Booth. Vilmar K. Bo~e. Benjamm CohPn. Vi<'tor CohPn, Emanuel Dej- nozltn. Jr .. I\! arlin DPpp. Robf'l't C Denzlet·, Ernest G. DuMond Hyman A. Enzer, Robert H. Fer- guson, Donald P. Ford, Waltt>I' 0. Gerber, Jr. Paul Goldberg, Willard L. Hagador·n. Jl' .. Henry D Hart- man, Arthur W. Hepner, CharlP~ B. Honikel. Donald 0. Hotaling, Charles H. House. Jr., William J. Jarobe>!', Jr .. Barnard V. JaC'a!iC'k. Heu·ri>on :\1. Karp. C:Paton Kim- bnll. !';tanley Kollin, Richard Kov ari<'. \\'e;:ley E. Leonard, RohHt J MadiA\an. rromwell :Mernto><h. Jr .. Man·in M. MillE'!', James F Mor- gan. Jr. 1\lel\·in I Muroff. Bernard OlrndPr. John M PPrrr. Norman N. Pomerantz. Robert D. Richar d.:oon, Donald G. Roy, Arthur C. Santora, Ha1old L. Schultz, Hen1 y M. Seider, Alfred R. Seigh•. Cat! R. Ttahmun. :.\!..utin Vbcusi, Chatles Wibt•tley, ~1althew W. \Vibun, Elwood G. \Visenburn, Charles L. \\\itham John R. Wold Class of 193 7 Burn~ F. Bat ford. Jr., Donald H Baxter. l<'ay B. Begor. Kenneth N. Brown, Irving Brownstem. Vaden R. Butler, Paul Campbell. Jr., Joseph R. Ciaranello, Jerome L. Cohen, S. Ralph Cohen, Richard T. Connolly, George C. Cummings. Lee L. Davenport, John C Da\•is, John J. Deveny, John B. Dowling, Jr., Stuar1: J. Eisenberg, Robert D. Everest. Rush B. Faville, Fred Feldman, Joseph A. Fteld, Jr .. Theo- dore W. Fox, Frederick W. Frost, Jr., Fenton A. Gage, Frank B. Gat- .:hell, Jr .. Guy A. Gmves, Jr. Wli- ltam A. Giiesau. Fc11linand Hdm, J 1., Sa1uud M. llewttt, Ueutge \\'. Hui.JIJ~. Mu1 vm K<ttz, Richard :0.1. Kt:l:;~y. lluW<tiU L. Kn.J.ck, \\'tlfut J A.. C. LeFu1 eo-~ tier, Harvey M. ~if.,et, • Angelu J. lL . .tt ut tJ., Jo:.t.lllt:.::. \\. Mt...KtnL.h::, J t ., Dununick Melc, Hawld S. :.\1tllham, Howard S. :Moncton, Phili!J B. Moore, O:;car J. Muller, \Villiam B. Mycr. William J. Owens, Jl'., Frank Y. Peclt. Charles H. Reeves. Henry A. Reitfort, Robert H. Rice, James H. Riggs, Paul C. Robinson. Casimir W. Ruszkowski, Bernard H. Salad, E.lmer Sheldon, Charles A. Sholtes, George C. Stewart, Norman. R. Stewart, Joseph L. Theisen, Frank L. Thorne, Jack Tinkle, Francis E. Townley, Richard E. Trumbull, Alan B. VanWert, Herbert R. Wil- son. Get Your Garnets ---·a--- Skidmore P1·epal'ing fo1· Rush of Union Students I C'ontia ued from Page ll The lineup: l:'tillH :U lllDI.t:IH'·R Y not to show up on time for dates. They should be at least one hour L.'~utt.oy ··.E.· *L'taig l attht-ll . T . . . . to~t>IXH~ late and should smoke less. thumb o*Rlgg, · · ... ol ... •Aoulet;ot• twiddle more. Dist·egard the quib- •Barturo ·:: l' Lu,·ell bJ.ing femininity in the parlor. *Polts .. lL ...... •Huffman They are the ones without datRs. *Ladd . . . . . . . T........ 'l'ru.!Jantl 2 All Sk . d f h •campbell ........ 8..... . . . . . . . . Kirl{ . t more res men wear Thoma:< QB ...... 'l'lmlmer~ signs ovE>r thpiJ· sh~uldE>rs exhibit- ·~lllilh !Ill •Howhm ing their numes. This is an ex- Amazou . . . . . 1 1 _! 1 1] .. 'tluaii\«Tta cellent way to get acquainted. • Bt ow11 . ~. . . . , • LoiJt·n,tl'it• * Lt>ttl'tlllt:'lt. 3. TllHP is no need to rush to· 0 ward Saratoga Springs. There will be plentr or traffic tn that direc- Band '\\rill Plav. Tomorrow tion over the week-end. 4. Simple instructions for tele- phone dates are the!:le---telephone Saratoga. 1880. ask for the young lady, and then you are on your own. lf you can't get the original party, talk with the telephone operator. Although Handicapped by lac-k of prac-tice and graduation lossrs. the Union College Band will play at the Middlebury game tomorrow. \Vil- lard Male '38, student leader, an- nounced today. GUERRA PHARMACY 600 Union St., c:or. Barrett Phone 2·9419 • For hundreds of years tlze Persians have known the secret of fine fla..-or. In the dead of night a Persian \melon- diviner\ may wake r~p his wealthy master to enjoy the perfect melon-picked by lamplight at its exact moment of full maturity. Like the Persian melon:~ the Turkish tobaccos used in Chesterfield are watched day and night. There is just one right time to take off the leaves .•. that's when they have ripened to their fullest flavor. Often the tender ripe leaves are gathered just before the dawn ..• to preserve the full e~spice\ and aroma for Chesterfield. Chesterfields are made by Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co. CALENDAR 'rumort·ow 10:00 Daily Assembly, Nelson • W. Nltchman, speal,er. 2:3(} Football, Union vs. Middle- bury. Alexander Field. SWHiay 11 15 Suuday ~ervices, Dr. Bel- na1 d L Bell, preacher. Memor- : ial Chapel. 4 ·oo- Organ recital by Dr. El- met· A. Tidmarsh, Mem0rial : Chapel. Monday lO.OU Student Body meeting, . Old Chapel. Tuesday tu uu 1Ja1ly Assembly, Dr. Har- t bon C'. Coffin, :Jpeaker. Lihml'y i\1ay Open October 1 A It houl':h the rc•novations are 'b~­ ing cornpleteu as qutl'ldy as !JOtioi· ble .Mr. Webb, the librarian. hao announced that library books will not be circulated until OctolJer 1. The date at which the building will be available for reading is not yet known becaU:l~> the arrangements for lighting facilities !l!re not yet complete. s.\.\1' \Ut R FRIESIJS A'f TO~IORROI\'':S GA}l E Pictures Printed, Developed, D~li\'ered-24 Hom· Service l·.e:n·e Yow· PhotogJ•aphs in Gnen Box in Alcove of Silliman Hall Community Photo Slaop studmt RqJre\·ntallre H. A, Enzer :MembeJ'S of the Classes of 1937, '38, and '39 who have not received their copy of the Garnet are asked to call at the Student Activities Office as soon as possible. The office is open every day except Sat- IU'day from 1 to .5 p. m. ~ •• and you can depend 011. a Liggett & Myers product , d' . G d The operaUon was performed at Ch1llrud Con ItJOn · 0() • 9:30 yesterday morning by Dr. At- After Operation at Ellis: bert Grussner of Schenectady, Dr. Franldin Chillrud, of th~ field ~=========~~==~~ of .psychology, is resting eastly at the Ellis Hosuital after an oper-• ation yesterday for hemmonhold.,. His condition is good, and he should be able to ·t,eturn tu his wol'lt, within a week, attendants at tlle• Hospital said. CALL BAlL c:md BALL W1LL CALL BALLS. Inc~ CONNELLY BROTHERS DAI'RY. lncli Shoe Rebuilders, Cleaners & Dyers HISS HAMBURG STREET 633 State St. PHONE 2-3456 SCHENECTAD'Y ENGRAVING COMPANY ENGRAVERS for THE CONCORDIENSIS 147 JAY STREET TELEPHONE 4·90()2 -:=:::::·::::::::;::::::::::::::::::.·· ,;·.•.,; .. ; .. ' : ., ,;:;:,::~::::::::;::::::::·::;::::::::~;~~::;::;::!i::::;:::::::,,,,,:,., : .• ·.· ; .. ·.-·: .. : -:-:- ·:::::;::::::::}:~:i:::::::~:::=:-·::::~:;:::~:::~~=~-:-:-::::-·-·=:::-:- : ._ ---:-:=:::-:-:;:-:-·-·-:- .;:_:::~::::~:;:;:;::. ;:·:·;::-=::::=:::::::=::::::::: \·-·=·=··· ·-:_ •. -·:··:;::;::;·;. :-: =~- ... ':- .-.:::::~;~::;..-;::::· From our own Southland we take mild, ripe tobaccos chock-full of Southern sunshine; then we go 40oo mil~?s to the fertile shores of the Mediterranean for tbe ftne fla'llor and aroma of Turkish tobaccos. These tobaccos give Chesterfields thei-r milder better taste. .. t r I I I I I. I Cooperativ System Consiclere< For Union Colle Vol. LX, No. Theatre's To Open~ With Pia~ Session to Be To T1·you1 For Nea Thl'ee-Fol I,. • Will Enable B~ ize Rehearsal_, Watch 1 I. The Mountebar revive au old c night. when it ho: readnig for the 1 productions in 1:' o'clock. All stude taking part in !l. ductions at any year are invited 1 This session wi tary to the reguh will be held in the is designed to acqt , with the type and 1 the scheduled pl: J ago, regular play- ! urns were held at I fessor Raymond i during the past fo f tom has been disc j Three-fold According to Jo' the theatre's exec the .purpose of the \ fold. It will enable 1 how the play may ~. in rehearsal; it wi < dents to see how t and lt will enable mittee to see me dramatic material the student body. Excerpts from t ing considered fo1 be read by groL those attending. tentatively sched1 , Gogol's \The Insp · · satiric farce o i George Bernard S ·/ physicians, \The ) ma\; Maxwell An ''Winterset,\ whi< the first annual C1 last year; ·''The Rain,\ a sentimE student life by ME \Whistling In the tlve melodrama b;y Executive < 't · The' executive < Mountebanks is cc ing, William W. J Cohen, Henry M. ton M. Garrison lt\rost Ferdinand Borden, Tony Sha: manager Milton 1Y. RamblinJ Hold Ev~ The rambling, tr: of stonework tha:· ment of Wasbbur1 ly Union's general all the supplies oJ stored and where the groundS crew ders. This fact w upon visiting the 1 lJnderneath w~ found Mr. Johnso of the grounQ.s, , ·from his desk, \ Concordiensis,\ w mind if we brow just to see what it college in sb.l!.pe?' \No no, go ahe lit tie later,\ he shoulder as he we: attend to some cai We began to There were chair: . . beds, pipes, glass, · · towels, brooms, c~ · of soap-in short, necessary to keep der, from asbesto south wing we sa-v shop, with emery press, boxes of t paint. In the nortl :· · for ·threading and plumbing is inst~ At one end of t room one of the 1 repairing a brok Near the desk se gathered waiting should return an them. 11 Y.es, we do

at I I- ' Cooperative System Considered For Union GoHege • Dr. Coffin Unearths Intet•esting Facts On Greeks [ ' ~ .. •· l r f I I Vol. LX, No. 3 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29,1936 PRICE FIVE GENTS ==~====~====~================~~~====~---~~-============~~========~~~~======-=-~~==== Theatre's Season Wainger Says Folk ... Lore Discoveries History of ,Greeks To Open Tomorrow . . C . . . . . Clearer Than Ever, With Play-Reading Mattn ontnbutton of W p A ProJect Dr~ Coffin States Session to Be Supplementary To T1·youts Planned For Near Future Know More About Them Than They Themselves Did, He Tells Assembly Idol Under False Colors .4s Class Rivalry F·lares The Idol, which looks· like a chameleon anyWay, has been working overtime this week getting a coat of the latest red and yellow plaid. The time hon· ored c.ustom of ;painting 1t has apparently been revived, but no one seems to know just what color what class should paint. Moves to Consider Cooperative System For Union Houses Robert Everest Issues Call For Meeting to Consider Advisability of Plan I . ' ,. Thl'ee-Fold Pm·pose l!'wo hundred and fifty people delving into old records and manu- scripts, investigating and describ-. ing old houses, combing printed sources for local historical .facts, gathering information on contem-. pmary ccmditions, describing scenic attractions, covering roads, moun- tain trails and waterways to direct and make easy and entertaining the path of the future tourist-such was the picture of the Federal Writers Project in New York State presented today by Dr. Bertrand M. Wainger, assistant pr.ofessor of English and director of the project. New Reseal'ch Methods It all began the night of the i11formal fights when the class of 1940 mar·red the Idol's be- coming coat of white paint with red class numerals. The sopho- mores, enraged, tried in vain tu blur these numerals. so they de- cided to repaint the whole thing. Cease Approves I. I ... I. Will. Enable Board to Visual- ize Rehearsal, Exhibit Play, Watch Mate1·ial The Mountebanks 'l'heatre will revive an old custom tomorrow night when it holds a preliminary readnig for the. season s prGposed productions in Hanna Hall at B o'clock. All students interested in taking part in Mountebanks pro- ductions at any time during the year are invited to attend. This session will be supplemen- tary to the regular tryouts, which will be held in the near future, and is designed to acquaint the students with the type and characteristics of Not only writers, but architects; geologists, geographers, ct·aftsmen,' historians and other expel'ts are employed, though a large portion of the workers are former newspaper ·men. Ninety per cent of the people were taken off the relief rolls; and the other ten percent were unem- ployed and in need. · These workers throughout the state enjoy the cooperation of in- terested individuals and local gov- ernmental bodies and historical societies. Inferential Evidence Gath1ns Data. from Minutest Details of Fact TuesdaJ·, Sept. 29.-\We are in the :strange po:sition of knowing more about the early hi::>tury ol Greece than dill the Ureeks tlte:rn selves,\ ·declar·ed Dr. Harri:>on C. Coffin, professor of Greelt am! chairman of the division of litet·a· ture, in his addres:; in Daily A~ semjlly this rnornlng. Speaking on \Sermon:; un Argument.s 1vere already ram- pant on the campus as to w.hethel' the fl'osh should. paint red or green, and '39 decided to settle the issue by applying a coat of cana.t y yellow. Theu ef- forts were short lived, however, for the Idol now sports a fall coat of canary yellow with red stl'ipes r·unning horizont!I)Jly, vertically lind every other way. Most Fraternities Willing To Join in Examining Data On Movement .t the scheduled plays. Some years J ago, regular play-reading symposi- j ums were held at the home of Pro- f fessor Raymond M. Herrick, but [ during the past four years the cus- 1 tom bas been discontinued. The ultimate aim of the project, which covers the country, is to pre- pare a six-volume Guide to cover the entire country scenically, his- torically and culturally. Each state will also publish a separate guide employed In· carrying on personal and some local guides. Eventually investigations in their own loca:l- the complete project 1vill be made !ties. Much of value in this field available to students and historical . has already been discovered. societies. In D!'. Wainger's opinion, The entire state of New York, these files will prove to be mines with the exception of New York of information for the future local City, is under Dr. Wainger's super- historians. vision. The state is divided into 12 Stones,\ Dr. Coffin pointed out H1at while such great hi:storians as Gib· bon had to 1:ely chiefly on literary sources for his \Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire,\ almost the only kind available until the nine- teenth century, we have today '\a vast mass of real objects\ made available to st.udents of antiquity through the uevelopment of arche· ology. Varied Events In Student Body Meet Baninger '39, Is A.pp()inted Secretary; Committl'es Appointed Monday, Sept. 28.-The first step in organizing a fraternity consum- er's cooperative movement for the purchase of foodstuffs and other basic articles on the Union College campus was forecast today by Rob- ert Everest, president of the Stu- J.,nt Council, at the first student body meeting this year. Investiga- tion of the movement during the >~ummer has illustrated the advis- !ibility of such a move, Everest said in calling a meeting of all fvater- nity house stewards for Friday night. Most Chapte1·s in Favor House stewards and uther mem- bers representing a majority of both on and off-campus fraternities said tonight when interviewed by telephone that their chapters would be willing to join such a movement, o1· at least to consider it. 1 Three-fold Purpose According to John B. Dowling of the theatre's executive committee, Batb. Tubs, But No Ja.m 1 the .purpose of the session is three- fold. It will enable the board to see how the play may eventually shape in rehearsal; i·t will enable the stu- dents to see how they like the play; and It will enable the casting com- mittee to see more exactly what dramatic material fhere may be in the student body. It is Dr. Wainger's guess, how- districts. Material is gathered by ever, that from the scholar's point field workers, edite<!. in district of- of view the most important contri- fices and forwarded to the state of- bution of the Federal Writers Pro- flee. There it is put into the form ject may turn out to be -its dlscov- required for the New York State eries in .folk-lore, since this Is Guide, and the finished copy is sent doubtless the first time that a staff to Washington to be used as a of some 6,000 field worlters has been source for the National Guide. Before the concrete evidence un· earthed by Sir Arthur Evans in Crete, D1·. Coffin stated \there was always some question raised as to the evidence concerning the life of the early Greeks and Romans. But archeologists have furnished us with 'definite proof that \the pre· historic Cretans had bath tubs in their houses, that Romans of 4ti0 B. C. had gold fillings in their teeth, and that there was no ja.n1 on the Greek breakfast table, and that the ancient farmer used magic· to help his CI'Ops.\ Monday, Sl'pt. 28.-Lon H. Bar- ringer, '39, was appointed student body secretary this morning at the first regular undergraduate meet ing this year. Robert Everest, pres !dent of the Student Co unci 1, out· lined plans for the coming year, and appointed committees to inves· tigate rushing and other rampu~ problems. Most hotly-contested, and indeed the only business of the day was a proposal by the Pyramid Club that the gates, ordinarily locked at lC p. m., should be kept open until midnight. .After desultory discus- sion pro and con, it was voted to let the matter drop. N. W. Cease, manager uf Hale House, also expre:,sed pleasu1·e that such a nwvement has been started here. Pointing out that he has ad- vocated the cooperative buying plan on this campu::; fur almo:,t 20 year::>, Mr. Cease said that he is willing to offer his personal cooperation in any way. Hale House cannot offi- cially join in the movement, how. ever, without the consent of the ad- ministration, Excerpts from the five plays be- ing considered for production will be read by groups picked from those attending. The plays now tentatively scheduled are Nicolai New Faculty Members R li • Att\t d Feted Tomonow Night e giOUS I U es Everest's Statement Everest's statement follows: , Gogel's \The Inspector-General,\ a · · satiric farce on bureaucracy; i George Bernard Shaw's play about I.; physi<lians, \The Doctor's Dilem- l rna\; Maxwell Anderson's tragedy, Nine new members of the faculty .Defined by Dr .. Bell and their wives will be guests of The inscriptions on newly found ntonuments, tombstones, corner· stones and other lapidary objects; provide us with the many useful facts, said Dr. Coffin. But \linguis· tic evidence is also important: The Greek word fo1· 'bath tub' is a fm- eign word, we conclude, therefo!:'e, that the object itself was art impor· tation. Another example of infer- ential evidence used by the scholars gives u::> the knowledge that the\ ancient::; usell gold fillings in their teeth: \In the laws of the XII Tables is a · provision forbidding anyone to bury with a corpse any gold except that which is u:;ed for fastening the teeth.\ \Since the opening of college this fail, a quiet and thorough inve«ti· gation of consumers' cooperative buying has been carried on in its application to Union's fraternitie::>, and the added possibility of includ- ing Hale House. Many interesting findings have resulted, and the out- look for starting such a movement is very bright. honor tomorrow night at a formal dinner given by the faculty in Hale House. The affair, which begins at 7:30, will have as speakers, Dr. Burges Johnson, professor of Eng- lish; Dr. Willis R. Whitney, of the Board of Trustees, Dr. Edward El- Adoration, Compassion, Hu- mility Necessuy for Start, Says Chapel Preacher The meeting assumed importance only as a pre::>age of activity tu come, with action promise<.: on rushing, the reinstatement of class officers, and the foundation of a con~umet·'s cooperative system. \Winterset which was awarded the first annual Critia's Circle prize last year; ·''The Wind and the Rain,\ a sentimental comedy of student life by Merton Hodge; and \Whistling In the Dark,\ a detec- tive melodrama by Lawrence Gross. lery, chairman of the faculty; He!- \The three most fundamental !ller L. Webb, newly-appointed li- words In the vocabulary of rell- brarian; and Dr. Harold Blodgett, new assistant professor of English. gion,\ said Dr. Bernard I. Bell, A 'committee to investigate tht .pre::;ent system of fraternity pledg- ing was appointed to be cmnpo::led of John F. Smith, chairman; Gr·ant Smith, Vibert Fryer, Robert Con- troy, Wallace F. Bake1·, Jack Tin- kle, Clark Cummings and F1·anl{ Philips. They will meet tomorrow tTuesday) night in the Student Ac· tl vi ties Office at 7:30 o'clock. Tentative Suggestion \Organization and supervision of the cooperative system would in· volve a considerable amount of work and thought. But ali these factors can be worked out at a later date. At the present time we will worry about the more elemental things in the organization, assum- ing, of course, that enough of the fraternities are interested. Executive Committee ThE!' executive committee of the Mountebanks is composed of Dowl- ing, William W. Mulvey, S. Ralph CGhen, Henry M. Stephenson, Carl- ton M. Garrison, Frederick W. li'rost, Ferdinand Helm, Jr., Albert Borden, Tony Sharpe, and graduate manager Milton M. Enzer. The new faculty members and Canon of St. John's Church, Provi- their wives, who will attend as dence, R. I., in his sermon in Me- honot· guests are Dr. and Mrs. Har- moria! Chapel Sunday, \are these' old Blodgett, Dr. and Mrs. Gordon .Adoration, CQornpassion, and Humil- R. Silber, Dr. and Mrs. William R. 1-ty.\ \The first,\ he· continued, \de- Richardson, Dr. and Mrs. Edward scribes the proper attitude toward A. A.mstutz, Dr. Elmer K. Kilmer, other people; the second is the Mr. Frank 'Manheim, Mr. and Mrs .. word for man's right attitude to- ward other people; the third gives Helmer Lewis Webb, Mr. Walter J. a key to the only realistic attitude Nelson, and Rowland M. Myers. \Since the amount of our evi- dence is constantly increasing,\ said Dr. Coffin, \it follows that· study of the past is not a. static thing, as many seem to believe, for it constantly offers new problems for the ingenious investigator to solve.\ A sophomore disciplinary com- mittee headed by Jacob Amazon and composed of Wallace F. Baker, David Miller, Benjamin Rathbun, \Investigating the consumers' co· operative on other campuses, we have found that the saving in food costs -as well as in other commod- ities and supplies-has been up- Rambling Cellars of Washburn Hall Hold Everything, Asbestos to Zinc The rambling, mysterious reaches thing,\ one of them told us. \We of stonework tba:t form the base- make all the ordinary repairs on ment of Washburn Hall are actual-. the buildings. We fix our own ma- ly Union's general warehouse where chinery. We even do the pain-tnig all the supplies of the campus are on the campus.\ Bit by bit, we stored and where the members of J~rned that there is more to the the groundS crew receive their or- wot'k than most of us realize. In ders. This fact was our discovery this Union warehouse, where each upon visiting the scene yesterday. wo!'l~man is a jacll-Of-all-trades, Underneath Washburn HaJJ we moving, painting, landscape gar- found Mr. Johnson, superintendent dening, metal woz-k, plumbing, of the grount;ls, just getting up steamlittlng, mowing lawns, cm·pen- from his desk, \We're from The try, forestry, masonry, upholstery, Concordiensis,\ we said. \Do yoli and ditch digging are only a few of mind if we browse around a bit, the tasks a member of the grounds just to see what it takes to keep the crew must tackle. college in shape?\ Presently Mr. Johnson returned \No no, go ahead. I'll be back a and assigned the men to various little later,\ he called over his jobs. \There are twenty men and shoulder as he went out the door to seven women working on the cam- attend to some campus job or other. pus,\ he informed us. \The women We began to look around us. are janitres:ses in the different There were chairs, tables, benches, buildings, and the men do various beds, pipes, glass, cartons of paper jobs. Some,\ he said, \are machin- towels, brooms, cans of oil, barrels ists, some coal-passers, and so on.\ of soap-In short, everything that Is Among ·the duties of the grounds necessary to kee}} the campus in or- crew, two activities occupy most of der, from asbestos to zinc. In the the W()rl!ers' time. In the summer, south wing we saw a small machine the grass must be cut, in the winter shop, with emery wheels and a drill snow must be cleared. \There are a press, boxes of tools and cans of hundred acres in the campus,\ he paint, In the north wing, equipment told us, \and most of that Is lawn. for ·threading and fitting pipes and We cut the lawns on the whole plumbing is installed. catnpus once a week. Ey the time At one end of the long ·basement we have finished the last lawn, it Is room one of the grounds crew was Thursday or Friday and we have to repairing a broken window pane. start right In again Monday. Bence, Near the desk several others were there is somebody cutting grass gathered waiting until Mr. Johnson most of the time.\ In the winter should return IJ.nd assign jobs to extra help is needed to fight the them. 11 Y.es, we do just about every- snow. toward one's seli;'.'' \I feel that the place where al- most everyone starts in religlo:i:l,\ . asserted the Canon, \is not with the thought of God or with thought of one's self, but with the thought, rather, of the great company of human beings all around USl: our neighbors, the nations, society as a whole. The approach to religion is easiest and most natural if we be- Alumnus Pr()duces Revue Rowland Stebbins, '04, Opens IDs \White Horse Inn\ on Broad- way Thursday · William Thomas, Harry Myers, and Edward Wells, was also ahosen to deal with problems of freshman (Continued on Page 4) <Continued on Page 4) Racing Season Flourishes Again As Men Rush for Saratoga' Dates gin with compassion. The racing season at Saratoga and Maraschino rings---25 cents), Modern Lile Distresses Rowland Stebbins, '04, who a~ was revived last week as stud.erits and many met their female friends \Surely most of us are distressed Lawrence Rivers Inc. has produced from half a dozen men's colleges for the first time this year. One, by the l!hipwrecks made m the pri- such stage successes as \The Green hurried to Skidmore to lay fitst however, was doomed to disappoint- vale lives of those round about u~. Pastures\ and \The Pursuit of Hap· claim to dates. Union, the favorite, ment. While pl·acidly, peacefully often of those near and dear to us: piness,\ occupie:; the Broadway held the inside position only 21 greeting his connection he was sur- by dt ink, dlvol·ce, passion, greed, limelight this week, with the open- miles away from the Saratoga cam- prised by the entrance of a. much anger, craven surrenders. We see ing of hi» ''i'i'hite Horse Inn\ pus, but the combined opposition of handsomer male and the sudden girls and boys whose loveliness scheduled for Thursday night. Middlebury, Williams, Amherst and transference by the lady of affec- warms the heart, and ten years Presented at the Rocltefeller Cen- Ffobart reduced the odds consider- tion, and the date. later they have become gross and ter Theatre with every mode.rn ably-. An indication of the sudden over- k d h I l i h · The seven-year locusts of the whelming deluge of males was the hard. The lips that spo e goo t eatr ca conven ence, t e revue IS \'\i'd-west could have learned some Sk'd . I h 1 words and kind, now bite out cyni- the American edition of a show \\\ 1 more gu w o ·Cla mly informed cism and bitterness. So few there that has been the rage of England tactias from the crowds which an impetuous student from Cornell are whG come to middle years and and the Continent for the past few swarmed over the Saratoga road that he was number five on that still can smile-except in sco1n or years. Directed and supervised by Saturday, afoot, in cal's, and on the night's waiting list for a date. But sefl-pity; or reach old age in peace Erik Charreli, Its originator, \White thumb. Fraternity vehicles were he, professing to be madly in love, and charity. Horse Inn\ stars Kitty Carlisle and crowded to -the gUnwhales, and re- almost carried the field by enthus- w 'll' G t splendent haberdashery, mostly iastically demonstrating-but the \Pity Is not the same thing as I 1am a:x o-n. bo1-rowed fot\ the occasion, was most favored gentleman arrived. compassion,\ Dr-. Bell stated. \Pity The cast, beside many other much in evidence, The cold spell Enthusiasm over the opening may be, and often Is, extended to \names includes a genuine yodeler, ruined one generous brother, who night of the season was al.so rife others, by one who thinks himself a special band, Tyrolean dancers loaned out his topcoat and Jiv.ed to among the Sltidmore students, superior to the run of men, and fro:m Salzkammergut, a singing regret it. Some getting lifts were· many of whom spent a large part not himself in need of pity. Com- chorus, a baJiet, a symphony arches- · forced to hoof the last few iniles, of the night arguing with officials passion is a thing more noble than tra under Victor Barravalle, and while others never ·even got there. that since Daylight Saving Time pity. The man who has compassion what is reputed to be the largest There were some who were op- ended at two, and clocks would be understands that he, too, is a part costume bill in Broadway history. Umistic enough to travel the dis- pushed back to one, they were of the great s0or1:y scheme of Mr. Stebbins is donating to the tance without any definite pros- therefore entitled to stay out the things; that he cannot by any plea Mountebanks this year the services· pacts. 'l'rying the approval methqd, extra hour. It was too involved a avoid connection with it, and te- of one of his directors, Miss Miriam they advised the telephone operator proposition, however, for the auth- sponsibility in view of it. Doyle, who directed \The Pursuit to send dO<wn the Skidmorltes two orlties to stomach at that hour. \Religious man has found one of Happiness.\ M:i~;~s Doyle, and per- at a time. If they were not satis- Curfew enforced, an all-effacing hope, the only hope there is. He haps Mr. Stebbins, will come to factory they would be sent back. darkness settled over the campus, has found his hope, for the salva- Schenectady soon to begin the cast- Many Union men met for the first broken except for the street-lights tion of himself, for the salvation of ing for the- Mountebanlts' first play, time while sipping Sltidmore spe- undE!r which campus policem.en ex- other people, for the salvation of Nicolai Gogol's \'l'he Inspector-Gen- :cials (double chocolate floats with plained with gestures, that it was society, in Got!,\ Dr. Eell concluded. eral.\ lee cream, :pecans, whipped cream time for tlie men to go away,

Two ~irttsi.S \11 Causa Persa Parole /1 ssai\ FOV!\DED 1877 !Q36 Member 1~37 Associated CoUe5iate Press Distributors of Cotte5iafe Di6esf Sul~ and .,xdOoiVe national ad~«l Using rt:IJt'el:;entatives lS ATIV;\;.I.L Al.l\'I::RTISI:O:G SEH\.ICE, ill<'. ~~0 :.O.ladi:son Avenue :-o;.,w York City ·l 'hll·agu - Bo;tou - San Frandsl'o · Lo~ Angelo;s Pu1 tlaud • :Sea ttl .. The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fri- days throughout the co11ege year, except dur· ing Chri~tmas and Spring recesses. Publication ':Qince, The Ga~;t\t~-P1:ess 3S4 Stat~ St., Schenectady, N. Y., Te~ep_!l_on_e.4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second· Class Mail Matter Subscl'iption price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhel-:_iz: ~e- Uni~.=_d ~t_ates: Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. __ Senior Board Norman R. Stewart. ........... Editor-in-Chief Clu Ps1 Ludg.,. 1-65~~ S. Ralph Cohen ....... ,., ..... Managing Editor 5 s ::>. s. c - ~. 16~~ Fenton A. Gage ................... News Editor 1 )pita lJp::;tlou Hou~P--4-7~22 Milton D. Bedell, . , , , . , ........... Sports Editor Delta l'IJt'llou Hou:-.t>-4 ... \;'~22 Donald Ford .......•...... Circull).tion Manager L'hl p.,, Ludgt'--!·65:!7 J ame:; \V. Righter ........... Busineoo Manager _ __ ~_l?e[t!l. l'pstlo_!:_!!llu\e--4-7922 ·- Junior Board ASSOCIATE EDITORS Car'! Trahman Willard Dean Edward Barry Robert Doig Hyman Enzer Henry Hartmann Robert Ferguson Melvin Muroff Sophomore Board Assistant Editors M. DE>pp, F. Hequembourg, P. Humphrey, F. Saidel, D. Taft, R. WaltPr, R. Morgan, D. Mil- IE'l', J. O'Brien, B. Rathbun, J. Sherman, J. Smith. 1\lanaging Editor ....•.... S. Ralph Cohen Assistants J. R. Doig H. A. Enzer H. Hartmann September 29, 1936 ----- -------~-~·~--=--~-~------------ .FOR BETTER OR FOR WORSE r'1·eshmen ~upervisiou has for several vem·::; met with the critical and reformative ~ttentiou of the student council. The stu- dent body meetings, held on Monday morn- ings. and generally amenable to the wishes of the council, have voted to abolish many of the rules and regulations which govern the activities of freshmen, while at the same time some few fraternities deemed it advisable to declare Hell Week a thing of the pa:::;t. Thi;:; refol'mation was all prompted be- cause the student council was a newly organ- ized body and realized that in order to jus- tify its existence it would have to appear to be pe1-furming important duties and func- tions. Therefore it duped the students into cuu:;~uting to aLoli:>ltillg ftt::>lllnan rule;:;, the only job it cuuld .see in sight uf any impor- tance, and, what is more, the columns of the Concordiensis were read in acclaim of thLs genesis of a new enlightened era. THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1936 By RICHARD SNYDER peace of this staid community for several AROUND THE WORLD who were appreheaded for disturbing the II ( ·O L u .M· ~.: ~:. hours, should be evidence enough to support n·===========~====~==~~-:= our thesis. !!. few weeks ago was the sensation of A Sophom01~e DiS 11 !'pll'l1'·'1'Y Con1m1'ttee wus 1 t · mind ot· the psyche, or what- European· politics has· tttrned out to \ \' \' \Damn said the Duchess, \ e go. ' 11 't d t d t f ever you want to ca · 1 ' an · be ·something of a false ·alarm. The crea e wo years ago to act as a COUl't o of my legs!\ · the flesh is. t justice to f~·eshmen who had broken one or I That line was just put In to get When I was at my youngest and Austrian government is- busy mak- your attention, you yeggs.) not-so-lewdest, Jn.g·excuses to its people, Of course, more of the four freshmen rules. This body It'll always a good idea to start off; I had enthusiasms. . . . nothing could be expected from the with a smash. h th · corne has almost outmoded its usefulness, since it \' !Jet·~ we go into a little Rhap-. <I assure you that sue mgs · agreement anyway ·since it was ,., ~ f th to me only in spasms.>. . . is almost an offense now to ma.ke an inf1·ac-. sody on the Subject 0 e So instead of laying my bram astde rn.erely designed to shelve a prob- Brain a:l if by Ogden Nash. d' t tion of the rules. hl our scherne we find a and becoming a nu lS ' .Jem the Germans did not want to t h t i as I called in a yogi, or was it a face while they were busy with new function for these conm1itteemeu, and • Now the first que:ltion · a ar s 8 wami ?, and made all the :'lr· b<>fore the person who has a rangements to be a Buddh1st. more impovtant matters. that is to formula.te new freshman rules brain is, what he is going to But whenever 1 sat cross-legged on It is a curious anQ. significant suitable to the times and circumstances. do with it, · • the living-room table and at· fact that the Soviet Union who Roth whilt> hE' still has it hangmg tempted to attaip Nirvana, accidentally dumped millions of They can reorg·anize themselves once more around and !this happens The maid would come in to tidy up English. .Pounds upon the interna- into an active and useful b-ody. sooner thanh youthmi~~~~ ~v~{t~ 1 and move me over onto the tiona! market Is a plime debtor na- pos<>l after e ts ro · plana. tion of Great Britain. Had their it. so it has occurred to me that the ln.nocent blundet,lng worked out it It is perfect·lY possible, of course, person who attempts.t.o use his would have sent the pound sterli~g fo r one to become a teacher, f bJ ain iB in the posttlon o a way dDwn, thus making it easier or a preacher; man in pajamas on lower for Russian capitalists in the form Or, 1 Oh, God, that this w~re an ac- State Street, of government agents to pay off curate rhyme!> a lee ler. About whonJ people gather and at S i t bli t· t E 1 d · But the possibilities of at least two ov e o ga tons o' ng an. , t b whom they stare and laugh as Th s· J · t t · FRESHMA.:N ETIQUETTE lt is conunon courtesy ::unong friends to of these profes,;ions seem a e if he had seven arms or eigllt e mo- aP.anese s t u a to IJ. pretty well played out; bears careful watching. Students of recognize each others' presence on passing 'l'he members of the one are all feet. the last majm· outbreak between II The brain nowadays doesn't lmow th t F. E · t 11 by with a word of g·I·eett\ng on the ~idewalks. bent on becoming co ege pres- h · e wa ar- as ern powers reca \ idents and those of the other which way to tUtn or w ere that Japan took advantage of an Freshmen, reme1nber that all Union men are are pretty well prayed out. to hide itself, \ineident\ to commence a slle11t ab- . tl re What with the presidential earn· t' f Ch' N · f Y Olll' fi~ei1ds, atld you sllould tl1er·.efol·e, sa, we suggest; that, smce Je I T 1 d sorp ton o . Ina. ow a senes o · • art' so many people around paign and Shir ey emp e, a:r:. Incidents have taken place again. recognize them as s.ueh with proper respect. who rest on their intellectual accordingly it seeks safety m But a different China faces Japan laurels and look upon their numbers and gets beside itself, today, In 1932 some historian re- brains as sorts of trophies, So I mortgaged my brain and lived maz·ked that the people on the in- WP might as well be fashionable for three days on the proceeds. te.rior of the great yello·w nation and pickle our cerebella and Then it came to me that I did not even know there was a war. C ould be a Public Servant. I · SUPPORT OUR ADVERTisERs hang them up above our par- Today these same Chinese are kill'- lor sofies. went out and got me a job lng many Japanese, This is your news})aper, and all the .sup- port you give it will in the end benefit youl'- self. Our budget \Vas cut last year by the Student Tax Comm.ittee so that students would have a lowet· tax to par. We do nut plan any r.etrenchme11t on services and fea- tures which The C:oacordiensis akeady of- fers, but we can COIYlpensate for the cut only We once made the acquaintance of with the W. P. A. d d So desperate 1·s Germany's dest're d b · Now instead of sitting aroun an a woman who ha a ram, h' l f.or foreign marltets and colonial h t I e') broodinv and trying to t In t t Now t a was an exper enc · \ trade that she is using unusual And >~he >'aid that all her brain had 1 sit ~roo~~~c~~d eat and sleep and methods to capture South African eve1· done for her was to make drink too much!\ trade. She has been putting pres- her full of headaches and de- sure on the South African govern- lirience. And after that we went home and ment since 1934. Germany has said Said she, \The complication which th.at she will not Jmy wool from the b bl t U n put our brain on the dresser I have never een a e 0 • African c<>untry unless she in turn mesh is Right beside the picture of our b t best loved professor. is given preference. A boycott sari- Just what the relationship e ween F. H. ously hindered the sales of Ger- the bram, or the soul, or the many up until now. But it is grad- by inct·easing the amount and type of our I II advertising. Yom· patronage of om· adve1'- ON HALE SHELVES tisers will assist us in achieving that aim. J!.,;-o.,;;;;==========!. CINEMA By JOHN B. DOWLING As to the amount of advertising·, a Fabian Tuesday, :,;.,pt. 29-A total of 27 Theatre, in this case the Plaza, advertises in ))ool\ci and :w magazines were added Tile Gorgeous Hussy (Metr<J- to the faeulty and student lounges Goldwyn-Mayer; Proctor's.) Is a this issue for the fh·.st time in years. Hither- m Hale Hous~ by the opening of b;ography of Peggy Eaton, who ually wearing off. The Irish Free State has been quietly progressing along through world confusion until now her Pres- ident De Valera can look upon a na- tion more than three-fourth self- sufficient. Historians will prdbably devote much space to the last five years of Ireland's progress during which mt)re changes have taken place than at any other period in her history. to the Fabian org·anization, which operates ~Ollt'ge, Mrs. Cyrus .Briggs, hostess, during the presidency of Andre-w announced today. Of the books, 11 Jackson wielded immense influence almost all of the il'l1p-Dl'tant moving picture were plac~d ln the faculty lounge and was the object of social ac- houses in Schenectady, has not deemed it and lti in thE' student lounge. The claim and ostracism that is para!- II II magazines were all designated for led only by the recent Gann regime. THE THEATRE necessary to advel'tise in this paper, for l'ea- ,lie faculty readers. But the picture emerges not so .· sons best known to theJU.st:!IVe.s. The Plaza, Those n~w boo!'~ in thP up·Rtair« much as a life story as it does a 1.\=============;;;;;;9· lounge include: \Men Who Run minor epic of a period in the life however, is running a picture closely tied up America\ by A. D. H. Smith, \From of our country that abounds in with Union through its producer, and this Olympus to the Styx\ by Lucas, color. \Savages and Saints\ by Older, It is stated in the opening title of is a splendid beginning. The Concordiensis \Spat ken broke\ by Morgan, \You- the film that history has not been t 'd th f · d Utilities and the GoveJ ~';llent\. by followed accurately, that the story ITIUS WI en e SCOpe 0 rts a Veliising Se!'V· G!P<'IlY.ood. \P<\tt'l' Lecky by Htm· h;; rather of an exciting personality ice to include not only theatres, out otltt>l' ~elf. \Let the King B<>war.-\ by who was a powerful influence at a f f ·b · d Mono~, ,\The Thmking~ Reed:: by I fmmative period of the country. orms o · us mess all amusement in town. We:st, h:.~ewn of Old Franc~ .. by ! But again the distortion was not Again, as to type of advertising, The Cuu- Mouton, I h.~rd Act 111 Venlc~. by too great and seems wholly legiti· Thompson. Gulden Peacock by mate by the successful effect which cordieusis is attempting as far a.s possible to Atherton. the picture makes t t 't ff t 1 1 .1 New volumes placed in the stu· ' COncen ra e l S e Ol' S 011 oca auvertisiug. dent lounge are_ '\A 1-'teface tu Joan Crawford plays Peggy Eaton This has become necessary because commis- Morals\ by Lippman, 'The House as well a~ she. has ever done a role of Exile\ by Wain, \Geography\ by and the statm e of the part seems sion charges Oil large national COntracts re- Van Loon \'My Expertences in the t<J have drawn more from her than duces our advet'tising 1·evenue. World War\ ttwo volumes! by she ~as be~ore indicated was there. Pershing; \Memoirs at Prince von Desplte th1s and the fact that the In these two purposes, of COUl'Re, we net>d Buluw\ by Himself, . Life uf Ben- p1ctme concerns her, the rea! pro· the cooperat' n f th t d t r. d u• d v .. nutu Cellini\ t twu volume£) by I tag.omst seems to. be the mfant . . 10 0 e S tl en vo Y. n ~ o Himself, \T E. Lawt ence, in Arabia Umted States and Its troubles. As not ask any special expenditures 011 the part and After·· by Hut, \Thackeray\ the life of Pegg~ Eaton touches f • • d ., b t I' ·ht · · T by ~twin \Thtet' T 1 tans\ by Lud- tho:le of a success10n of figures of o Out 1 ea e1 ::1, U a s 1g mentwn ot he . \E : . 1 A .. . .. b I the times an impression is roundE>d , . . w1g, ~:sa}\ n ppreciatJon y Concordiensts as a medium to advet·tisers John L. Low\\· · Cl'adlc of Llfe\ by and .completed of Washington, its '11. • · · 1 ·. Ad ··Th r 'f d 1 pohttcs and the forcE' of the coun· 1\'1 Increase good-\l':lll llllllJ.el~el\' A' 1.11 tl e ..<>UlHP amt<', p •I p an .et : t b h d \ ' ::; 1 I ters of John Galsworthy\ by H. V. \ ry e 111 lt. theatre, a word to the hox offire is suffi- M~rrot \An<'i J.ifP in th<' Am<>t P<>rh\P~ ~u<'h niti<'.tl empha\b cient, mention of a g·oud advertising medillll1 ican Southwe,t\ b~ Edgat L. Hew I will seem misplaced to those who ett. see the picture, for lt is not by any is always Welcomed by a merchant. The magazines includt' the \lllus- means a conscious document. Stlll, lVfay we request ''OUr COOperation·.~ trated London News\ of August 1, the underlying spirit of nation rises J 1:1, 15, July 18, and 25; the August above the mere Incident of story numbers of \Stage\, \The Studio\ and suggests a method of filming \The Connoisseur\ \'Apollo\, \The history as reflected by a few per· Burlington Magazine\ ··Town and sonalities more effective than any Country\ \The Sportsman··, \The straight narrative could be. And at Other Colleges • • YALE will give comprehensive general examin· at~ons in m~jor fields for a.Jl undergraduates, starting thiS year with the class -of 1937. This will include not only the major course but almost all of the other sub- jects covered in the d.ivis!O'n. . .. .. AMHERST now boasts ii.self onE' of the best equip- ped small colleges as far as gymnasiums go, with the opening this Fall of a new $400,000 plant. The shower and locker rooms are: planne:d to hold 850 at one time * .. .. Engineers at M. I. T. w.ill have to be cultured u.s well as educated now, under a new system which pro- vides a pvogram of purely cultural courses. * .. * Following the lead of UnJon and other schools, ST. LAWRENCE has combined her economics and soci· ology departments into a social studies division. * .. * Art-loving students at HAMILTON can now rent pictures for their dormito.:ry rooms under a gift of reproductions and prints made to the college. They can rent the pictures they like for from 25 cents to $1.00 a semt;!ster, the revo:mue going to the college. >to .. * Another college dramatl() society loses part of Its amateur standing as DAR.TMOUTH decides to hire a professional actress to take the lead in i.heir first show this season. * .. Spur·\ ··country Life.\ The Sep- That the film has its faults I will tember numbers included were of not deny, but they seem venial. \The Connoisseur\ \Antiques\, They are those of romantizatlon ·•Apollo\' \The Burlington Maga- which cannot be attacked in th~ zine\ and \The Studio\; While ligM of the real subject of the pic· \Punch\ of September 2 was also t_ure. Th7 cast plays surely and be- added. hevab!y m a well written script and ---o--- includes Lionel Barrymore, Robert· Taylor, Melvyn Douglas, Franchot Tone, James Stewart and Beulah Bondi. Sophisticates won't lllte this t.>icture for it appeals too much to the simJ!ler and stronger emotions. The. ordmary person will be moved by 1ts picture of a time when men held their convictions and life was less complicated. NOTES ON OUR CONTEMPORARIES Irish vs. Red Notre Dame University alUmni are planning a nation-wide cam- paign against Communism. Retter Farmers At Pennsylvania State College en- lOIIments in four-year courses of the school of agriculture and ex- periment station have nearly doub- led in the past 10 years. Slim Sunflowers China Clipper Ceiling Zer~ was a tightly made, sure-fire melodrama of commercial flying. The great mystery is why it was made again and so badly under a different title. Which is to sa.y that Ohina Clipper is a stupid re- hash of the precise situations that served ~Ding Zero so well. Added ~~ this 1s s<>me bad writing and ed- rtmg. that drags the film down to a walking pace. Pat O'Brien shouts t!J.roughout most of the runniiLg tlme. . The eight-round fight between \Dynamite\ Jones, champ lady-kill- er of the navy, and \Stonewall\ Jackson, champ virgin of Panama City, ended last night in a draw as Kid Cupid sent both contestants down for the count in the final rou11d. Haralded with great pub- licity from New York, and billed as \Sailor Beware;\ the ma1e-female battle of the century took place in the Capitol Theatre in Al'ba.ny, be- fore an audience bursting with laughter. The build-up for this sex. brawl which rocked the navy began when Dynamite's sidekick bet his gold watch that the navy lady-thriller could. easHy take Billy \Stonewall\ Jackson, a dance-hall hostess re- pu ted to be \colder than a pen- guin's behind.\ Always on the look-. out for adventure, Dynamite ac- cepted the challenge but Rid Love conkPd him on the chin at. tile first and the lady easily defended her- self against the navy until the last round, when Cupid t11is time sent both down for the count as the final g<>ng rang. \Sailor Beware\ Is as entertain- ing a smut session a.s this reviewer has sat through in his life. Racy, shocking dialogue kept a sizeable audience In uncontrollable laughter all evening. Except for two parts, the acting was very poor and ama- teurish, but so nutty were the cha.r~ acters and plot, surpassing in lun- acy Wodehouse at his best, that act- Ing just didn't count. Dorothy McNulty, however, as Billie ·\Stonewall\ Jackson, the in~ credibly virtuous dance-halil hos>teas, ga.ve a performance which could not be bettered. But Percy Helton as Barney Waters, Dynamite's bud- dy, steals what acting honors there are. Nutty as a loon, he worries over his watch bet on . Dynamite. until he nearly drives Dynamite. (a~cl the audience) crazy, and then brmgs the play to a happy close. No words can describe the idiocy, lunacy, hilarity, and spice of \Sailor Beware.\ AJ! a reviewer can do is recommend that you see this con- coction 'by Kenyon Nicholson and Charles Robinson, · We do not intend to criticize the existence of the student council, but only to point out the fallacy of its policy relative to freshman rules. The opinion was held at the time of the earliest reforms that freshmen now en- tered college sufficiently matured in all the aspects of life to live on a common standing with the sophomores and upperclassmen. Their machinery was expected to be geared in the same ratio as the rest. Of course everyone can see that many important fac- tors are excluded in formulating this opinion. No consideration is made of the fact that the frosh have never befo1·e tasted liberty and· I'esponsibility in such full measul'e as we do at college away from the influences of home. They have b€en accustomed to being prodded at, guided, coddled, and, in general, to being manipulated like puppets by their elders. Colleg:e- greets them denuded of par- ental restrictions with the expectation that they will immediately adjust themselves to The student co-operat.iv~ store at BENNINGTON the new surroundings. That last weekend announces the .payment of 11% rebate on purchases the Schenectady police force in a black Ma- made by members, as c()mpated with 5% a year ago. Anthropological measurements <Jf University of Kansas freshmen compared with those of a selected list of other schools recently re- vealed tl>at these men were taller about the same in weight, and les~ In girth of chest. Depression Over Coming The State will revive Will Rogers ln State Fair and on Thursday tin Plaza will play The Green Pastures a fine translati:on of -the New York play ~f Nes-ro rellgioll$ lite, 'I'b.e Coming to the Capitol Theatre next week is the Pulitzer Prize play, \The Old Maid,\ in which Donna Earl, leading player with the Mohawk Drama Festival, played in both i.ts New York and road presentations. Paramount vaudeville is to take the stage at the Capitol on Sundays betWeen the weekly engagements of road shows under the theatre'S! new policy. The rebate depends on. e:xcess of income over expend- ria sought a gang of spirited f1·eshmen, . itures. • Salaries of Buclmell University's faculty and administrative staff have been increased 5 per c.ent. ~.~.Jj'. -4 Garne On L Blocked Ki For Sc1 Faih By D;A' To correctly : of a Union foo a:lly becoming difficult task. S territory cofieie game with Mid on several cour1 coaching staff improvement; ruling had PI football squad view of last Y' Middlebury anc strength, the D by at least one urday afternoo saw the GarnE fovth in great s g 0 ~1-IIne vicini t toss some fine great gusto, th on a blocked ki Middlebury in I was a tremend team that had the majolity of loss still seems The first half fancy playing, most of the til across the mid teams aiternat, o,; i three runnnig p .i ed. Brown of U edg!! over his r . i flrie kick to the \ last quarter w~ beautifully exe< game. The set forth. a more SJ and it took to the kickoff. On the. ball was mo 35 to the Panth there the oppo!l over the ball. H was forced to 1 other exchange took the pigski the 2%-foot linE Garnet score But, two runru Brown and an ~'. failed to produ< points and Midd sion once agai \ ended. l Mlddlebu ., Immediately ft . opening the last ' forces started strides. Boehm forty-yard sprin1 afternoon, whic• two or three rm of which gained derson. then tl ie< went wide, and Union's, Howe.v' time that somet in the home tear ter got away f had earlier rei Jack Smith, anc Brown's kick w: tain Craig, who end to block the toward the goa lowed by Browr1 it, and fell on tl score of the gan: place-kicked th bring the total t Nitchman ther and guards, but heavy Middlebu check all Union 1 passes thrown b naught as neith were left in the~ game to lose, fo outplay their I but just could!l loooo either Tho any long runs. • Smith, who \ first half, left tl at the lntermissi retired, tossed tv of which went f. makes four tossE for Bill Thomas pass to Denne yards. Barton, retm after a two-yea mainstay of th G

of to The the was to who of na- it off io I) of an ab- of re- in~ !till~ sua I said rad- na- five en in a as as in be- awl hen re- ac- last as in- eas, ton. is at THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1936 Th1'ee Garnet Drops Inl •t·l•a.} lj,ray ll •11 and 1e<:eiv~ th·emaximumaward of ~ I'NTR · I 50 .points. 'T'he maximum award di- . · AMURALS · vided by the number of victoi'ies 0 L Q scol:'ed •i>y tlie winner gives the n . ast u .. arter. TQl· ly··===~· valueofeac:hgamewon.·!·hisvalue · (;II '-'I . multiplied 'll•y 1:he number of games ,; ning and \' b <®> ·~ • won y a..ny one group will give the . Ent1·ance points will be given for total addlt.ion..al award fm· that I Golf Tournament At Shaker Ridge li'rosh Gym Equipment I ::f 'i ! ~ Blocked Kick Paves Way For Score· Union . ' Fails at Goal V .8fSI•ty H • entering and competing at least 2 gt·oup. A il:re ::>hall be counted as a · · . · arr1ers . men in this meet. '!'he 30 addi- Victory. H a team forfieits its Have . T\I\m· e T.ri·als tiona! pomts shall be awarded as matcll, It::> group shall lose its par- follows: The additional points at·e · tion of tli.e ent mnce points and any· d,iv.ided by the highest team score. others th-Ey m.ay have earned. The 'I hts quotient is the value of each minimum. lo-si ~hall be ten points. 'J.'hrough the cooper·ation of the Shaker Ridge Golf Club which will offer its facilities to the students of Union College an .informal faH golf tournament under the direction of golf coach Ph!llp Stanley and var- sity captain Monroe Froehlich '37, will be conducted for the tirst time at Union from Monday, October 5 to F1·iday, October 9. Frosh Gym Equipment •will he· is- sued from the Gymnasium Stoclt- room between the hours of 1 p. rn. and 5 p. m. upon presentation of the Bursar's recei·pt. Locker~ will also be assigned at this time, upc.u payment of one dolla1· deposit which will be refunded in June. point scored in the meet. This !: .. ) By D:AVE MILLER Under the watchful eye of Bill Spring 1lennls FOR SALE f ·4 To correctly foreca..st the outcome Ketz, the Garnet cross•country 1 .,1 of a Union football game is gradu- team is rapidly rounding into shape ·\! ally becoming a mm·e a..nd more for its opening meet witll Vermont ·• :i difficult task. Scribes in the nearby on October 10. Ketz, with a Dobian I •;l territory conceded that Saturday's ·attitude on the prospects for the 1 .: t game With Middlebury was Union's year, believes· the 1 36 harriers· are value multiplied by the points scot·ed by any one group will give the additional points fut· that group. Wrestlb1g and Boxing A f1ate:l'ni ty in or·der to sco1·e en-· tr an<:e .JIOin.A; in this tournament· must enter an-d compete at least 3 men. Ad.dlt.ional points will be a wa:r·ded otll. t.he following basi.s: All Union College students will be eligible for the competition, though an entrance fee of $1.00 will be 1·e- quired of those who wish to com-· pete. The fee will be used fur pro- viding prizes for the winners. 1931 Chevrolet Convertible· Good Condition $100 Phone 2-4822 i ~ on several counts, namely: the new not as strong as last year's team Entrance point::! in tt 1 ., wre::~tling .: __ ·l coachin•g staff was a very distinct which won three of its five meets. toum.ament shall, be awarded for ! improvement; the new sc)lolastic After a series of six: mile grinds entenng and competing at lea;;t 3 \ ruling had provided the largest on successive days, the harl\iers men irTespective of the weight ! football squad in seve 1 al years.; in were sent out on the regular 4.7 class. Entrance points in the box- ·.J view of last year's tie game with mile com·se Friday in the :first time ing tournament shaH be awarded , .·l·.i' Middlebury and Union's new-found trial::J of the fall. As 'was expected for entering and competing at least strength, the Dutchmen should win Captain Bill Hawkes crossed the 31 men irrespective of the weight by at least one score. However, Sat- finish line first in the highly credit- >Class. Both tournaments ::;hall be · ··1 urday afternoon's 2500 spectators able time of 28:09. scored on the following point basts: 1 . J saw the Garnet sweep back and The next two runners to finish The winnel:' of a class shall receive · ·f fovth in great strides, march to the were sopllomores. Don Thomson 10 points, the loser of the final '1 gq3,1-Jine vicinity on two occasions, was clocked in 28:49 and Ed Wells match & points, the losers in the '! toss some fine passes, kick with ·close behind in 28:51.4. Both Thoro- seim-final shall receive 4 points great gusto, then Jose the contest son and Wells are practically new- .and the losers in the quarter fina:f ·.:i on a blocked kick and recovery •by .comers to running ci:vcles at Union .. shall receive 2 points, unless any- '1 Middlebury in the final qua 1 ter. It Thomson ran in the first two fresh- ·one of the above rounds is the pre- ' ·~t was a tremendous letdown to the men meets last year but had to re- liminary round. The group scor- . · 'l. team that had fot··ced the issue for tire because of a leg injury. Wells ing the highest number of points the majority of the game, and the has never run with a Garnet team shall be declared the winner and loss still seems 1,mexplainable. before. receive the maximum value of each \ Balance Shown pain~ sc?red in the tournament. By :j The first half was marked by no multlplymg the group's point total , fancy playing, the ball see-s•awing The next man to hit thP tape, by the above quotient the ad-d·ition- .\ most of the time back and forth Frankie Myers, was the number one al award of that grOUJ.l may be \ across the middle stripe as both man for the freshmen harriers last found. Byes shall be counted as c.1 teams alternately made two or year. Myers was timed in 29:05.8. victories. If a contestant forfeits i three runnnig plays and then punt- Howard Sheffer, anothel:' sopho- his match, unless by injury, hi:; ..1 ed. Brown of Union had the slight more, was fifth. Ray Denton and group shall lose his portion of the edg!! over his rival booter, and his Ralph Denton were the last two entrance point::; and any adddtional · ~ fine !tick to the coffin corner in the runners to cross the line. points he may have earned. The last quarter was one of the most The tota,l elapsed time between minimum loss shall be 10 points. beautifully executed punts of the the first and the fifth man wa:> Softball game. The second hlaf brought only one minute and 23 seconds. forth. a more spirited Union team, This gives promise of well balanced When a fraternity enters a team and it took to the offensive from squad this fall. Joe Annese, the in this toul:'.nament H shall receive the kickoff. On five running plays dark horse of the team, and Sammy 50 points for participating therein. the. ball was moved from the Union Hewitt did not l:'Un. Annese has There shall be additional points 35 to the Panther .25-yard line, but been tagging the leaders regularly awarded for each game won. For there the opponents held and took and may be one of the first five example, last year there were two over the. ball. However, Middlebury finishers this yea!'. leagues ot 10 teams. To win the was forced to punt, and after an- At the same time last year, the tournament a team theoretically other exchange of kicks, Union squad turned In a better set of time could win 9 league games plus 2 took the pigskin and marched to trials. Bastedo was clocked In 21:41 extra games in the championship The grou.l' ~.Nhicb. ~cores the great- est numbet- of victories in the tournament .\v- HI be declared the winner a.ud· ,receive the maximum award of 6[)· 'PCJints. The maximum award <6.5 .(loints) divided by the number Qo.f victories scored ·by the winn·er g-ives the value of each game woD.. 'E'hLs quotient multiplied ·by the nllmbet· of games won by a group wll! g-ive the total additional award fol\ t~at gl:'oup. A bye will be counted a.s a victory. If a player forfeits li.is .Inatch, his group shall lose his JlOl!'tion of the entrance points ancl a][ly he may have earned. 'l'he mini mum loss shall be ten· points. Baseball Fle.Id• Meet To acqu:il:e .fpe 30 entrance points in this meet 6 men must be entered and com pet e. The 45 additional points sha..U be divided as follows: The add!Uos.al .points are divided by the ·higl-.est team score. This quotient Is tl:!e value of each point scored in the tneet. This value mul- · tiplied by the points scot ed by any one group- viii give the additional points for -tiuJ.t group. Spring Track Team or a. t least 6 must be en- tered and cO>mpete in order to be awarded t:he 40 entrance points. Additional poln ts shall be awarded in the fo!lo-..vlng manner: If the winning tearo ~ores 30 points then the 60 additional points are divided by 3() giving 2 points to each team for each poin.t scored. If the winner only score-s .20 points, each poin-t SCOI ed Will ·COUat as 3, Golf the 21,4,-foot line, at which point a and Russ Knox, the fifth man in play-offs. Therefore, the 100 addi- Ga:vhet score seemed inevitable. 28:45. The total elapsed time be- tiona! points to the \vlnet• divided But, two running plays, one by tween the first and fiUh rnan was by 11 equals 9.091 points per game Brown and another by Thomas, onyl one minute and· four seconds. won. The championship team will failed to produce the. precious six These figures seem to bear out receive 100 additional points irre- In order to be awarded the en- points and Middlebury took posses- Co.ach Ketz's pessimistic attitude, spective of the number of games trance poi:nts a team of at least sian once again as the quarter but by the next time tl•ials the har- won. If two teams tie for the lead three men ll:lUst be entered. The \ ended. riers should lower their times con- of a league, the play-off game shall additional ]loints are divided as in .l. Middlebury Advances siderably. not count for any additional points. Basketball 2::1. 'l'he 50 additional Freshmen p 1 ·ospeets G<lod Forfeiture of two games nulli:fles points shall ·J)..e awarded as follows: Immediately following the whistle .. coach Ketz will send his prom- the entrance points and any addi- the additii>Dal p~lnts are divided by opening the last period, Middlebury 11 tiona! points that may be acqu·red. 1 the highest iea.m total of games 1~1ng year ng squad against the forces started moving in great varsity harriers Wednesday after- Horseshoes won. This qu .. <Jtient is the value of strides. Boehm broke loose for a noon in a time trial over the three I each game. WO!k in the meet. This forty-yard sprint, the longest of the n order to be awarded 25 en- ·value multiplied:. '-y the total num- mile route. This will be the first tran · t · h' t ~ afternoon, which was followed by · ·· ce pom s m t IS ournament ber of gam.es won by any one group real test of the frosh cross-count. ry six men must be enter d d two Ol\ three running plays, neither e an com- will give the additional points for team as the yearlings have only pete Only doubles h 11 b , of which gained much ground. An- · s a e com- that group. I:f a player forfiets h'ts , been rounding into shape this past peted in The 50 dd't' a1 · t derson. then tJ led. a field goal, which k · a 1 10n pom s match his group shall lose h1's par- wee . The best ,prospects to date shall be award d f 11 Th went wide, and the ball was again · · e as o ows: e tion of the ell: trance points and any are Santoro, Melewicz, Hoffman, group which scor th Union's. Howe.ver, it was at this J h es e greatest additional points his group may o nson, Gagen, Fischer, and Mur- number of · t · · h time that something went ha•n,;re VIC ones· m t e tourna- have earned. The minimum Joss \·· • ray. The other members Lord ment sh II b d 1 d h in the home team. A pass fl:'om cen- • a e ec are t e winner shall be 10 points. Wells, Becker, Ross, Smith, and ter got away from Dennett, who Sh had earlier replaced the inJ'ured aw are rounding into shape Slightly slpwer than the other Jack Smith, and on the next play, members. Brown's kick was blocked by Cap- ----o---- tain Craig, who tore in from right end to block the ball and bounce it Touch-Football Schedule toward the goal posts. Kirk, fol- lowed ·by Brown, made a dash for it, and fell on the ball for the only score of the game. Anderson neatly place-kicked the extra point to bring the total to .seven. Nitchman then replaced his ends and guards, but to no avail, as the heavy Middlebury team held in check all Union threats, and several passes thrown by Dennett went to naught as neither Farr n()r Lewis were left in the clear. It wa::~ a hard game to lose, for Union seemed to outpl:;tY their heavier opponents, but JUst couldn't seem to shake looSJe either Thomas or Brown for any long runs. • • • Smith, who was injured in the first half, left the game, appeared at ~he intermission and then again retired, tossed two fine aerials, both of which went for nice gains. This makes four tossers in the backfield fm· Bill Thomas also threw a nic~ pass to Dennett for about ten yards. • • Barton, returning to football aft~r a two-year layoff, was the mamstay of the line, and made Wednesday--Phi Sigma Kappa vs. Sigma Phi; Alpha Delta Phi vs Phi Gamma Delta; Kappa Nu vs: Delta Chi; Kappa Alpha vs. Phi Sigma Delta. Thursday-Beta Theta Pi vs. lost of Theta Nu Epsilon-Alpha Phi Delta game. Kappa Sigma vs. ·Win- ner of Theta Nu Epsilon-Alpha Phi Delta game. Theta Delta Chi vs. los~r o~ Sigma Chi-Neutral game. Clu PBl V;:,. wmner uf Sigma. Chi· Neutral game. some sparkling tackles t() thwart many a Panther runnel'. • Lack of ability to tackle and block was thought by many to be the rell-son for the defeat, for there seemed to be numerous occasions at which this inability was evident. It must be taken Into consideration that the opposing backfield was very slippery, for all afternoon the Dutchmen had tl·ouble in hanging on to them. It will probably be in · this department that Nitchmen and Nelson will concentrate in prepara- tion for Hobart at Geneva next week. GAZETTE PRESS PRINTING -. Coming to the Plaza lheatre Marc Connolly's Fable of Negro ~eligious Life-Beautifully Filmed Wit-h A Splendid Cast ·~rHE GREEN PASTUREs·· A Smash Hit When Rowland Ste-bboins, U '04, Produced It on the Stage-Even Greater On the Screen. On the Same Progratn-\Counterfeit.\ Thurs •• Fri •• Sat •• -Octobtt>r 1 • 2 -l Wall Paper STRAHAN - BIRGE - U~ITED Artist Materials CARLSON•s 515 STATE ST. PHONE 4·4700 STUDENTS of LITERATURE Clnd DRAMA An Excellent Opportunity to Obta.in Your Required Reading Books Everyman's Series Modern Library Serie!S Burt Home Library SEr-ies COPIES FOR 95c PARKER PENS ARE A STAI'-IDAR.D FEATURE UNION COLLEGE 1001 STORE Room 5-Administration BLJilclin'9 The conditions of play as out lined by Coach Stanley are that 51 holes in medal play, under U. S. G. A. rules, must be turned in, with conte::;tant~ playing their matche::~ . on any three of the five days, in the company of at least one other con- testant who will attest the score. All entl·ee::; nm::;t sign up bef01 e S~.~;turday, October 3 in the gyill nasium bulletin board. ---· -0----- Fall Tennis Fall tennis pairings are posted on the bulletin board in the gymnas- ium and the fil:'st round of the tour- nament must. be completed on or before Sunday, October 4. Points will be deducted from team mem- bers who forfeit their contests. (lET A PICTORIAL RH!'OIUJ O.F .tAUJ'G:S lSl'EN IllS Pictures l'rinted, Developed, Delivered-24 HOW' Service Leave Yow· l'hotographs in Green Box in Alcove of Silliman Hall Commu11ity Photo Shop Stndent ReJl'rescntatlve, H. A, Enzer Interested in Schenectady I11terested i11 UNION MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Street Jeweler 166 JAY STREET Watch and 1 ewelry Repairing a Specialty PA.:RK.ER PENS THE SHIRT WITH A BRITISH ACCENT paluKinp· SMART BRITISH AUTUMN TONES WITH WHITE STARCHED KENTON COLLARS $zoo each INCLUDINC 2 !lENTON COLLARS Steefel Brothers STATE STREET Albany, New York We Asked One Question of 200 Men and Womea HWhich Pen is YourChoiceforS~ ~'fi>~?'' And 2 tv 1 Selected Parker's La:m.inated Pearl* -The sacless Vacumatic with Ever-Visible Ink Supply and 102% More Ink Capacity than Old Style- GUA.:(l.4NTEED Mechanically Perfect Yes, other things being equal, style-minded people would choose the Parker V acumatic for beauty alone! But other things, too, including per- formance, make this revolutionary in- vention the national favorite by a still bigger margin-by 9 to 4 .. ** One important difference-its ink supply is ever visible-the ENTIRE length of the havrel. Thus it shows days ahead WHEN IT'S RUNNING LOW. Another great difference is the pat- ented Parker filler. There\s no other ~ike it. It ;e<{llircs. no sliding piston unmersed 1n mk-1ts working parts are sealed in the top. WHERE INK CAN NEVER TOUCH THEM- can never de=mpose them. The. Parker ~oint is Scratch-proof -preciOus Plattnum combined with solid Gold.· Ev-ery student: needs this miracle write.r thatd?esn't \let youdown\'by runnmg d_ry 1n classes or exams. Go and see this luminous, lami- nat~d Pearl Beauty at any good store selling _pens. The Parker Pen Co Janesville, Wis. ·• ~ Sfjll't t:Jte IWL 7emz. , · wiik the Pen. -m ~ t)tat Stud.en£s~ 1kker ~ YA.t:l!MATIO::·f3;?; GUARANTEED MEtHANltALLY PERFECT Junior, $5 • Pencils, $2.50, Over-Size, $10 $3.50 and $5 *Morothnn twJcOtheDlltllbersele~ted Parkerothnn o.nyotber **National Peil Ceu.lllft Rocordina ad Statiatical Oorp;

Four Cooperative 8tores 1 At Other Ct>lleges Prove Successful Bennington and ·P!'>ineeton Stores Pay Luacioas !Rebates M. I. T. Plant Ex.pands New Building Bdng Con- stmcted at Cost of $60,000, Officials Say Experience at uthH· ~ulleges wems to mdicate that th<' coopera- tt \\ !llO\\emenl even iu u.rhet 1lel<.b than ba:.1c foud and curnmodity neces~itie,;. has gained la~tl ng suc· cess. Bennington Cutlt>ge, whete the oy»tem is comparatively n~w, an· nuoncPd Sunday that It:; cuopera· live store would pay a l'ebate of H per cent on last seasoa':; e17rni~g; to members of the organ1w.uon. after all running costs have been deducted. l'rinreton liltewt::;e oJ,Jet· a tes succe,.;sfully a cooperative store which pays a perc-entage 1 e· hate on the value of go()ds put chasPd. At Cambndge, Mu~\'·· where u eo operative store was founded b; students at Harvard and the Mass achusctts Institute uf Tee hnology uver 20 years, a latge und exJ,Jen sive expansion process !::; under way. An entirt>ly new moder·n building. to tal•e the place of tile present ··cuop slut t', Wlli be ett·c:let.l. ouua at a total estimated cost uf $60,000. officials annuunc.ed last week. Ex eavation work for the new building is almost completed. New Dt>partm«.>nts Added AN modern lightmg fi::xtures and an enlargement of many of the present departments a1.e t<> b~ fea tured in the new ~tme, wluc.lt 1s expected to be cumpleted by Janu· ary 1. 1937. Th.e men':; fu1nishing department will be ronsidera.bly enlarged so that Tech me11 will no longet· have to travel to the Har- vard store to obtain their clothing. In addition. a complete line of shoes. not in the present store. will be added. Money for the project ha,; been obtained from the si.nki.ng fund of the \Coop which consists of an accumulation of saving., over the 20-year pt>riod since the establish- ment has beten in business. Officials assure students that there will' be no .reduction in divid~nds becau:;e of the new project. Barber Shop in New Bu.ild.i.ng The \Coop\ barber l:!ltop will have a special room in the new edifice instead of being separate as it is now. All new equipment and sepa- rate wash basins for ~ch barber are to be installed 1n the new home. In deciding on the name \Tech- nology Store,'' officials felt Tech students should have a stOl-e that 1s distinctly their own_ T\he present name \Technology Branch of the Harvard Cooperative So-cie-ty\ does not seem to convey that idea. ac- cording to them. Expiration of the lease on th\ present stot.e will enaul'\ t.he stock to b~ mov.,J a;, :,oon a.:; the n.,w buil.ding i,; complet~d and t·eady for occupan<'y. January the first has Lcen .;et u.; a tentative date. First Student Meeting Appoints Committees \Continued fron:1. Page 1) 1 egimentatton. Ever<>\t warned t}je fiPf'hmen that all frooh 1··utes. ex- '\\Pt tilt> out moded onrs e<>nternin~ the wear tnl! ut bE>ards anli srnuklng of corn-cob pipes, wotlld be strictly enforced. Evere't announced that nomina- tion fur the senior ntember of the Publications Board would be held at the n~>xt meeting on October 12. and that election of tha.t officer would follow. On tile former date, Dr. Charles N. Waldron will speak: to the student body on the advis- ability of re-instating t.he old sys- tem of class officers, ab<Jllshed two years ago. ----a--- Game Progra~ns ()ut ThE' first tssue of the Union Col- lege football program was put out Saturday afternoon in time for the Middlebury football game. Printed in attractive colors with several articles by its editor. M.ilton M Enzer, and other contri.bu\tors the publication was distributed free to the students and visitors at the game. The Student Service Bureau circulated the progra..nJs, which was financed by the national and local advertising of various Industries and merchants. Pledge Notice Theta Delta Chi announces the additional pledging of David S. Preston, '40, of Bronxville. THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1936 CALENDAR Tomorr()w 10:00 a. m. - Daily Assembly, Et nest C. Btown '37, speaker. 7:30 p. m.- ·Faculty Dinner, Hale House. ThlU'Bday 10.00 a. 111.--Daily Assembly, Dr. Charles N. Waldron. 1:00-1:30 p. m.-Glee Club Re- heatsal (basses), Washburn Hall. 8:00 p. m.~Faculty Men's Club Meeting, Faculty Lounge. Frida:;.· .10 00 a. m. -·- Daily Assembly, Assembly, Lh-gan Hecltal, Dr. ·ridmarsh. 1:00-1:30 p. m. ·- Glee Club Re- hearsal 1 basses l, Washburn Hall. 2.30 !J· at. Choir Rehear:;al, Memorial Chapel. Thomas to Give Recital John Charles Thomas, celt!brated American baritone and member of the Metropolitan Opera Company, wi11 appear m recital at Skidmore College, Saratoga Springs, Thurs- day night. October 29, at 8 o'clock. With a varied career in light opeta and concert work behind him. Mr. Thomas today is eminent as a singe1·. After scoring successes in operettas such as \Maytime\ and ·'A!Jpleblossoms\ Thomas turned to til\ nw1·e serious fonus of music and went to Europe for ~tudy. His work abroad won him recognition and he made many guest appear- ance::> at opera houses in both Eu- rope and Ametlca. -· ·-- o-- ----- Fratet·nities Announce Ple<tging of 10 New Men Ten new men have pledged. Union College fratet•nities since the lul:!t publicati<Jn of the list of pledges. This swells the number of men pledged \to 144. Alpha Delta Phi has vlellged Thomas Ralston of Rockpot-t, Penn. and l:Jitoelps Newbeny of Gross Point, lvi:lchlgan. Dt!lL<t Plti hu:; pl.,dged b:luwt Johnson. of Rotterd:.un Junction, class uf 1938. Ka~J'\\ Alj.Jha has udJ.,d J<t!Ut:\ Know !so-n. '40, to its list of pledge,; . K<tj.)pu. Nu add:; tlu·e~ tu its tu:>t.L•t who a~-t• all from the class of Hl4U. They are Stanley Gertz. of Jamaica. L. 1., Ft·a•1ldin Einstdu of Alban~·. and l1 vi.ng Zweig of Na:o,.au. N. Y Phi Delta Theta hu.., a<'<JUitL'd Donald' :Roberts, '40, who hails ft•orn New Ro-ehelle. P•i FlJsilon ha~ (Jletl~,;t•d b:dv. ut J Htt>wa t•l of t lw das~ oi 1940 Theta Delta Chi end\ the lint with D>=tvid Preston, uf tht• cla,;s of 1940 -..vito is from Bronxville. 0 Schmidt aud Two Alumni Prese11t Chemistry Paper Beltless Pants Found Zippl•rless; Fitz Fixes Zippers can prove ve1·y incon- venient in spite of Talon adl:!. Puul C~mpbPll found this to be the case Sutlll day afte1:noun when in a melee in the M~dtlle­ bmy football game he discov- ered that he was beltlesB and zlpperless. In other . word~>, minus two very impot·tant trap- J.Hng~ uf hi~ utult·cildn...;. Wil:h a·lmost shameless assur- ance he hell! up the ga.me for a ft•\\' Iuiuutt.· ... whill, h(l ~trodt:'l t.o the llniun bench whele Ed Fitz 1 ,a.t<\h. u(J the zipper par-t with a ~lab of adhes1ve tape and sutueutw Juaned him a bell t.o ldtl'll up his trouser~. He '\\\t illtt<•d ill th\ game w1thout ftutl ... , uli~h;q• to hi>' pants. Ru:shing· lme:stigatiou Cha.nge The 1:u:;hing investigatio~ com- mittee, which was to meet 111 Hale Jl,lU:lL', will instead met>t in the Stu- ,lt-nt Act.ivitit>s Offirt> in \'1/aHhburn Jlall tonight at 7:30. 0 Dr. F'l:ederick c. Schmidt, in- Study Cooperative Plan structor in chemistry, in t•onjunt· tion '~ith two .former Union stu· 1-Cuntinued from Page> .ll dents. Jo::;e.ph Sottysiak '35 a ad wards uf ten per cent. ~t. ~s time Herrnaa D. Kluge '36. read a pape>r jthat Wl' realize>d the pos~nbtlttie~ of at the rerF>nt Pittsburgh nt!'Pting of t-hh; ..:y~tem of Pf'onomif'al buymg. the A.mc=rican Chemical Sodety un land or·ganize to bene!lt b~ 1t \Heats -of Solution and Dilution m I \Tht>t e will be a meetmg of all Anyh:yd:t·ous Liquid Ammonia.. intPresteJ house stewards--repre- His. t•esear·ch in that field was ••mting both the on-rumpus and off- carried out through ai<l ohtaine>d l'llffi!llt~ Fraternities. Friday PVP- from tlt.e national so<'iety of Higma ning at 7 3U in Hillima11: Hall. I hupe Xi and the Wa!'l·en !<'und of tlw that all the houses wtll share ouz Amer-ican Academy of Arts and interest in the idea and meet at Son th College Yard Is Scien<!es. that tim .. ·· In Stage of Completion ~~~~;:;;:;====;;;;~;;;;;;;;::;;;;:;~;;;;~;;;9 ~outh College yard presented an entirely new appearance today as· workmen began cleaning up after extensive repait·s to the entire area. Once the campus mud-hole even in the dryest weather. the yard is now entirely paved with amasite, and curbed with concrete. A round eenter island, which contains fire hydrant», hedges, and a lamp-post, besides :oonte gt·as:o, has been left. A parking space for automobiles has been provided, screened off from the roadway by evergreens planted yesterday under the super- vision of Mrs. Dbwn Ryan Fox. SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING COMPANY ENGRAVERS for THE CONCORDIENSIS 147 JAY STREET TELEPHONE 4a9002 .... ~- • 4l . for tobacco cut right to smoke right New Phone Listing . \Idol'' to Be Out on Time If Only as Blank Pape,r A second· te-le-ph-o: has been in- stalled in the dean's office. It will \The 'Idol' will come out on time be listed in the city telephone direc- . . November i\f it comes o~t as tory under Union ·College as fol\ ~~ani' paper,\ promi:;;ed Fe~·d1~and lows: Student Employment Bureau, H 1 '37 one of the co-ed1t01 s of 4-2636, Information B1,1reau, 4-~36. th~ ~inio; literary magazine, in. an Please use this telephon.e when Interview Monday. He gave N~vem- wishing to speak to Miss Travis in ber 16 as the date of the first 1ss.ue. connection with any .of her work. Queried on the recent pr~dictwn · ;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;~~~~~~~~;;;;, b a Concordiensis colummst that ~ l. t~e ... 'Idol' will be the be:ilt cam.I)U::l \how since the days of Cory,\ Helm . ;xplained: \Our object is to be .. as . funny as our budget wtll penult. Malting clear that it would all be. good, clean fun, Helm further l:!tateLI: \lt i::; possible to be funny without being· filthy; so ~any pe~­ ple are filthy without bemg funn~.; In the rlrst three issues, at least, he said \it Is our policy uot to .be. too ac~demlc. Any article that should a.ppear in the first number, wtll be on a lucal :mbject.\ The Jlrst copy of .tht' T<.lol appeat-: lng this year will be edited by .the. members of the new board appomt-, ed last April. The staff includ~s Feidlnand ,Helm a.nd John C. Davts, '37, co-Pditors; S. Ralph Cohen, ,'37. business manager; Fred Frost, 37; Louis Maples, '38; and Lon H. Bar- . ringer, '39. Alma ~later n.eeps Tab Yale University has the addresses of all but 80 of its 31,003 graduates. FOR SALE 1930 P-ONTIAC 5 Passenge~· Equipped with Radio Samuel Carpe:t)ter 21 Washington St. For Deluxe Coaches Call G. A. Welcome & Son 1711 UNION ST. PHONE 4·9444 GUERRA PHARMACY 600 Union St., cor. Barre+.t Phone 2-~419 MURRY BOROSON NEXT TO THE HIGH SCHOOL ON NOTT TERRACE Hamburgers Frankfurters Sandwiches Sc NOON LUNCHES-25c: and up DINNERS-45c: and up EAT WHAT YOU LIKE AND REASONABLY There's a right way to catve a chicken or slice a ham. And there's a right way to cut tobacco. When- the tobacco in your cigarette is cut the way it is in Chesterfield •.• right width and right length • • • it burns even and smooth • • o it smokes better. I I Supp<J Roosev Club ForinE Vol. LX., Nc Placemt Finds 9: Of 1936 Dil'ector W~ Are Emplo In Gra Bureau N~ Interviews, : Aid Were 1 CUl'e A.st01 Although org cember, the U ment Bureau ordinarily succ his ;:tnnual rep< on Ryan Fox. Wyatt, directOJ nounced that 1 graduated last per cent, 'have or are pun;uln The Bureau of conducting tiona! prog1an member of the in an ex-officic dinating their By means of ifications and j by various car the professions vice, augmente ferences and IE class, Mr. Wya consciousness\ They weve dir themselves crit Placement Bm more aptly. R.ecox Through his to the Chail'l1 and Alumni Sj has intimate student from • tion, and his p A careful reco each student's tra-curricular < also made of praisal of his ity. Last June's in teaching P• tory schools ax obtaining scho teaching and ships in colleg and in obtaini rail, bus and fields, in indus nancial houses merchandising ing, journalis1 houses, in put pal, state and 1 A canvass w employment o· since 1905. 01 5,504 alumni as unemployeo sought the aiC Bureau in fine ter,\ of these to find more c Beginning 1\. in college will 1 Placement Bm plans for wor The Placement tempt ' to loc among the mo its active list arrangements · (Continu Thirtee; Tonigh: Sirens shriell shot their be~ havoc last nlgl the Schenecta< tonight, when l troops will g; Field to exhi•l they have lear neering, the c tion, and orga Over two h\t: will be recog awarding of se highest rank i Shreve, vice-p1 era! Electric ' \The whole c is to make pa general public of scouting;\ e utive Arthur E view last nighi be staged in c< the youth of to Washhi.gotns, morrow.\ Alumni Fiel

