s Student Tax Hearing Tomorrow Night trnsts Student Tax Hearing Tomorrow Night Vol. LX., No. 53 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, MAY 4, 1937 PRICE FIVE CENTS Seven Associate . Truly Scientific Weather Model League.Ra~JT~~ Committee Announces Members Elected . • Stormy Session;: 0 ~~ ToEtaKappaNuForecasts Are Predicted Spain Walks Out'Publtc Hearmg On Budget Bradbury, Breymaier, Burgess. Expet:t Says Trained Farmers Better Prognostica· Depp, 'l(ovaric, Mcintosh, tors Than Present Weatlte~· Experts; Says Paul Are New Members New Pilot BaUoons Also Accurate Engineering Honor New Officers to Be Elected At Annual Banquet, Date Not Yet Announced Sunday, May 2.-The electiOn of seven new members to Eta Kappa Nu was an.nounced today by George W. Hobbs, president of the Union Chapter. All members of the class of 1938, they are: Rich1frd Kovaric, Gloversville; Cromwell Mcintosh, Kenmore; Joseph Paul, B.altimore, Md.; Roger Burgess, Huntington, W. Virginia; Marlin Depp, Peeks- kill; Joseph Bradbury, Mt. Lakes, N.J.; and Arthur Breymaier, Sche- nectady. Members.hip in Eta Kappa Nu is considered an honor in engine£ring circles, eligibility for membership being based primarily on scholar- ship with secondary consideration for personality and ability in extra- cutTicular activity. The purpose of Eta Kappa Nu is to afford recogni- tion to those with exceptional a·bil- ity in electrical engineering and to further campus activity having to do with this branch of engi- neering. Officers The office-rs of the society for this past year have been George Hobbs, president; Howard Knack, vice-president; Joseph L. Theisen, recording secretary. New officers will be elected at the annual ban- quet, the date of which has not yet been determined. Kovaric has been a member of the college string quartet, and is active in musical circles. Mcintosh is a member of Kappa Alpha, the Outing Club, the American Insti- tute of Electrical Engineers. Depp is a member of the Radio Club, the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. He was a mE;mber of the Sophomore Board of the Concor- diensis and is active in the Pyra- mid Club. Bt·adbury is a member of the Radio Club and was president of that organization in. his junior year. He is affiliated with Chi Psi. Paul is an outstanding player on the lacrosse team and also plays hockey. Breymaier played fresh- man ba.seball and basketball and is. a member of the varsity hockey team. Burgess is a member of the Radio Club atrd is also a member of A. I. E. E. AU the new members havE; been named consistently on the Dean\s List. M<Jit clay, lV1ay 3.-0elebrating the fiftieth anniversary of its fouJld.ing at Union a few months after the nationa'l scien- tific society was established at Cornell, the Society of the Sigma: Xi tonight presented H. C. Willett, one of the world's leadii1g: authorities on weather forec2sting, as the principal speakeJr at its annual spring dinner. M_ I. T. Professor $·-~------------- Dr. Willett, formerly of the U. S. Weathm· &ureau and now associate professo:;r o-f meteorology at M. I. T., gave a «letailed description of the intricate maze of observations taken tho.ree times d'aily which are plotted ·On weather maps from which the weather is finally fore- cast. But the present methods- surface observations, pilot balloons. and a.irptlaDe observations-are in- sufficien-t to give much more ac- curate fo()recasts in local districts than tbalt. a.fforded by trained farm- ers who <depend upon their personal observations of \surface phenom- ena\ suc.El as sky, wind. trees. grass, animal ·b-ehavior·, etc. This is d 11e to the fact that both pil()t balloons and a.irplane observa- tions are difficult at th;, time when most ne~ded, that is d-uring sudden changes of weather, or during un. expected \acceleration of activity\ --storrns~ Dr. Willet sald. Pilot Balloons But h~ j)redicted that the newly dE;veloped pilot balloons which have equipment to l'ecord temperature. wi11d velaci ty, air pressure, precipi- tation, e1tc.. and to send these re- cordings through ·radio signals, will be used ·e:xtensively within three years. T:!he use of these almost hu- man obs~revrs will b\' possible in any kLnd of weather and at heights of five r:niles. And only then, the noted aLUthcority on weathE;r fore- casting said, will we begin truly scientific weather forecasting. Foreca.sti:ng the weather accur- ately, he sa.id, depends upon obser- vational data available. Since we are most interested in knowing be- forE;hand concerning weather changes. w·e must have complete data as a predictable basis for ac- curate jtLdg-ment. Profess:o!' Edward S. C. Smith, president ()>:f the Union chapter of Sigma X.i, presided at the dinner. President: Dixon Ryan Fox in a brief address traced the develop- ment of scientific education at Union CoUege which has ·been known s:inc:e 18(}4 as a \center of scientific interests,\ Professor Willett was asked if he took \an:y stock\ in the hundTeds of proverbs concerning weather forecasting. To the surprise of many of'G:he d·istinguished scientists present, Professor Willett said that !Colrltinued on Page 4) Prexy~s Prestige Gets Big Boost from Cerrnany A prophet is not without honor save in his own countt·y. At any rate, Dr. Fox has just been given another title- this time by a German institution. A Jetter came to him the other day postmarked from the Gut- enberg-Museum m Mainz ana addl'essed to \His Magn.ificence the R.ector of the Union Uni- versity, Schenectady-Albany, N. Y., U. S. A.\ Rumor has it that the letter was sent in an attempt to com- pensate for the slur on the li- br·ary, reported in these col- umns a few issues ago. Prexy is now to be ad.dressed as \His Magnificance, Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox, Ph. D., Pd. D .• L.H.El., Litt. D., LL. D .. D.C.L., President of Union College and Rector of the Union University, care of the Rectory, near the Blue Gate.\ Community Chest Asks Campus Aid Lunelteon Officially Opens Annual Campaign Here; $1,000 Union (i()al Friday, April 30.-A gr()up repre- senting lJnlon College attended the luncheon, at the Hotel Van Curler today which marked the official opening of the annual Community Ch..,st drive. Mr. W. H. Pillsbury, general chairman, told the group \After the splendid re-port turned in by U'nion CollegE; last year. we have no hesitancy in believing that it will again subscribe its goal. Last year this division made one of the highest per cent of increases over the previous year's giving of any ~f the 13 units. We have full confiden·ce in their again repeat- ing this splendid performance.\ Scrumptious Colorfn l Gathering Harlem Night Twenty-one benevolent societies benefit by the subscriptions to the Community Chest. Approximately $185,000 is the goal set ·by the off!- cers of the Community Chest th1s year. Because of the wholehearted response received from Unhm in years past when it was included' un- der the Division of Schools by the drive officers, the college was last year made a unit in itself, separate from the Division of Schools. In Light Mood at ----- $·------------------------ A blaring negro band, lurid lights, and a canopy running to the curb with a red-coated doorman gave the D. U. House the correct .Cotton Club atmosphere Saturday nig-ht as the college \went to a dance.\ Informality reigned in spite of a su1·feit of black ministers, Father Divines, and angels with sacrosanct appearances. The floor show of dancers, singers, and jokes proved popular, especially to sue~, as ~er­ die Helm who came as Nothmg Human\ and .sat almost direct~y under the dancer's feet. Dean Garis dressed in tails, pearl-gaey vest, and biding behind the blacltest paint in the house, and Prexy who was the only pale face at the dance lent respectability to a generaiiy motley looking crowd. Except for the president, every· one who wasn't already black was asked to rE;port upstairs where a shoe-polish black was thickly lav- ished over protesting features: It was not only necessary to have black on, •but it was essential to have enoug·h on to show up under the colored lights. A trucking contest revealerl so~e talent for trucking among Umon couples, but the winners, who mu~t rem<J.in ananymous, were unam- mously acclaimed. One 1~.rge ttnd vociferous young lady w1th a large dust cap and a penchant for too active dancing turned 011t to .be Bert B•ret:ten. D. U. freshmnn, much to the cmeg-rin of several euitorA. Freddy Wyatt, it is said, was em- barrassed by the rhumba d->ncing entertain-er, but shE; was acclaimed as tops. iby everyone else. .\ sug- gestion td an off color joke by one of the en tertainers drE;w the ad vice from Burns Barford that the Dean was there and they had better stick to dan·clnag. . The clerg;y is evidently the mam occupatiDon of all negroes. Among the clergyrmen vve1·e S. Ral.ph Cohen, looking as well fed as the mo&t .prosperot:ls minister: .John P. De- laney, Wiilli.am Goff, alum;ms;. 2;nd sE;vera[ 1<W'ho couldn't be 1denlif1ed because of their paint. Another favorite occupation was baking. Maybe the boys were just in the <:Iough fo-r Saturday night. Among the facult:y, Fred Wyatt was able to cover tha.. t youthful bloom of health with a goodly amount of ebony. The Bar.on and Mrs .. Von Forst- myer proved that beauty is more than sldt3 ·lieep. GW!tavus Fox a11;d Mrs. Fox tripped the cLark fan.tasti.c and he didn't look the least bit sc;l- entific. Jack Dowling and SylVIa Klarsfeld were as perfectly made up and as j>erfectly matched as any movie comj)'1e. As a 'lrho-le the dance attained a delightful: degree of informality SE;I· dam acht eved at college dances. Lasts Until May 8 The drive will last until May 8. Student contributions will be re- ceived after daily assembly on Thurs.<lay, May 6. Union itself has a goal of $1,000 to be reached. Posters have been placed at key positions on the Hili. and th\' solic- iters hope to receive contributions from all who are connected wlth the College. President Fox has been named head of the college unit. Professor Peter I. Wold is directing the solic- itation ()n the campus. To facilitate subscription the colleg-e has been subdivided under· the following heads: Professor H. C. Coffin. Di- vision of' Language and Literature; Professor W. W. Bennett, Division of SociaJ Studies; Professor F. C. Schmidt. Division of Science; Pro- fessor· W. C. Taylor, Engineering Division; Mr. W. H. Ketz, Athletic Department; Administration and Grounds Staff, Mr. F. A Wyatt. -----0---- CONC~RDIENSIS MEETING A meeting of the entire news staff of the Concordiensls will take place at 5 p. m. tonight. Attendance is requil'ed. Council Demands World Peace f()nference; Se-nds Telegram To President !Roosevelt All Questions of Administration and Jurisdiction of Rody to Be Answered in Open Meeting in Old Cl:tapel Tomorrow Night Fox Addresses Council Repot·t on ProiJaganda Gets Much Comment; Summaries Broadcast Ovet• WGY Monday, May 3.--Meeting in storruy sessions on Friday and Sat- urd'av aftetnoons t.he Model Coun· cil of the League of Nations eli· maxed its spl'ing nneeting by send· in.g a telegram to President Roose- velt d'eclaring that. the time was ripe for a world p-eace conference, and that they wished to go on rec- ord as unanimously urging him to be the one to inaug-urate such a ~alher·ing. They also had a heated di.scussion over the- seating of rep· resentatives of the Spanish insur- gent government which ended when Robert Denzler of Union represent· ing thE> rebel group. walked out of the meeting afte.r .b-eing refused the offlC'ial seat of his country on the council. The Union delegation represent- in.g Turkey presented· a report ask· ing that the armam-<?n·t programs of the va.rious nations be slashed in an effo·rt to restore a normal trade and commerce and the Syracuse delegation representing Russia took the question up and nressed it un- til the motion was passed unani· mously-. Th.e long anticipated clash aver the seating of the Spanish delegates came when Denzler presented him- se If as a representative of the in- surgent governmen-t and asked to be seated. However, because the Madrid government: already holds a seat on the coun·cil. France and Russia represented .by Syracuse and Colgate respectively, walked out. Several attempts a.t 1·econciliation were tried and Denz.ler turnE;d down an unoffic.ial seat as an \interested party.\ saying that :such action was not in accord with his principles. The Spanish question was given the ruost attention of' the various proposals on. the agenda when Lu- cille Clunk of Elmira. presented a report. However, n<Dthing was ac- complished as Italy- rejected ever:y proposal for immediate settlement of the war. A rep<Drt on \Pror>a· ganda\ by Richar·d': Young of .3t. Lawrence also recei ve<l much com- ment. The council proceeded through the various items on t.he agenda so rapidly that at a short meeting aft- erwards the faculty adviso!'s decid- ed to cut the number of problems on the agenda from <i'i.~ht to four at the next gatherimg. The council opened Friday aft- ernoon with a short address by Dr. Fox. Professor Frecierick Schuman of Williams C()llege spoke at the banfJUPt in Hale Hcouse in the eve· ning and short resmrnes of the days event.s were broadcast on both Fri- day and Sattwday afternoons on station WGY. T'omonow night at 8 (}'clock in the Old Chapel the Student Tax Committee will take an unprecedented action in holding an o.p.en hearing on the administration of the student tax budg·et. The committee has consented to conduct a geneml meeting at which any 2nd all questions as to its functioning will be tried to be answel'ed. ------0 According to student coordinator Coordinator r ProfesBOl' William W. Bennett, the hearing has been stimulated by the many questions raised by students as tu how the tax committee wot•ks. The questionnaire issued by the committee in daily assembly two weeks ago has further increased student interest. Q-uesti<>ns Answered The meeting. will pr·obably be con- ' ducted by Frederick A. Wyatt, for- merly student coordinator, and it will be informal in character, All students should come prepared to ask questions of any of the mem- bers of the ·committee. They are: Richard C. Snyder '37, chairman; Richard Passenger '37, senior member; H. Laurence Achilles '38, junior member; Robert D. Everest '37, member ex officio; Comptroller Anthony deH. Hoadley, and Coordinator BennetL Prom Ticket Price Will Rise Mollilay Pressing questions such as what the Publ.ications Board needs an appropriation for, how student or- ganizations make up their budgets for the year, what system of selec- tion is used to increase or decrease appropriations of an orgnaization from year to year, and whether stu- dent taxes should be increased or decreased- are the questions which have been disturbing. students. Clear Misunderstanding G()es f\rom $6 to $7 Next Wetek; College Makes Plans for Week-end The price of the Junior Prom Tickets will be raised from $5.00 to $7.00 next :Monday accordjng t<> an old Pror:n tradition, Harold E_ Ack- ennan, chairman, announced yes- terday. Tickets at the lowet· rate will be available from any member of the J:unior Prom Commltf:ee and may als·o be procured at .the Stu· dent -Ac'tivities office. FaV'()rs for the guests who will attend the Prom a week from Fri- day n.igbt wlll be distributed early nex:t week. This yE;ar the faV'ors are silver wrist-bracelets bearing as the center j>iece the insignia of Uhio.rt College, the Minerva seal. Many Guests The campus will be gayly decked \'The all-college hearing will not be an occasion fat· students to at- tack the committee, said Professor Bennett, for we have done nothing we can't defend. But we do hope to help clear up any ignorance or misunderstanding about the stu- dent budget.' ' The StudE;nt Tax Committee was organized four years ago to see that the studentiS realized a more exact return on the taxes they pay during the college year. The committee has the specific power·, delegated to it by thE; Stu- dent Council, of determining the ap.propriations of student activities after· having studied the yearly budg~tl> s11bmitted ·by each activity be-tweE;n :Moving Up Day and final examinations. It is com.posed of four student members, two seniors, one junior and the president of the Student Council who is a member ex-offi- cio; and the comptroller of the coi- IPge and the student coordinator or faculty advi.sor. nex:t weeki in anticipatio-n of the Glee Club Season Closes several hundred guests wr.o w~u be Civil Service Meeting Wl 'th Concei·t For· Alumn 1 •. expecteti h.ere for the Prom Week- end. A complete program of house The Union College Glee Club gave their final concert of the year at the M()hawk G()lf Club last Fri- day night providing- a brilliant cli- max to one of the llllost successful seasons they have ever experi- enced. The proceeds of the concert, held under the au~pices of the Schenectady Alumol Association. will be used to help :provide a schol- arship for a Schenectady boy who wishes to go to U:nion. The baH- room of the club 'VIa:s completely filled by an enthusiastic and at- tentive audi..,nce. The solos by Fred :M. Alexander \37. and Charles Eerger '38, re- ceiverl generous o\VatJons of ap- plause. A quartet composed of Ed- gar Moulton '37, Jobn Mitchell '39, Kenn..eth Streeter '39, and William Boyd '37, sang Pink:y. Tomlin's new hit, \The Love Bug. Will Get You,\ \The Boy with t.be Little Roo Drum,\ and \It's De-Lovely\ from the Br!Y<ldway show, \Red Hot, and Blue.\ all special :arrangement.s dances, :athletics events, and infor- mal pat·-ties is being scheduJed for that week Friday night at 8:30 the Moun teban.ks will also pre:sent their annual Prom production in the Hanna Hall theatre \T'he Wind and the Rain,\ an atmosphere play of C()ollegiate life is the scheduled productton .. Decorations The A.Jurnni gymnasium is going to be decorated in a naval theme, with tbe interior decorated in ocean.-bt ue panels, life-sav€r-s. poop· decks., snip pennants, and capstans. Ea.ch booth will be divided l:Jy nau- tical railings and anchors. Russ Morgan, one of the C<>ming young orchestra. leaders, will play at the Prom with his company of 19 enter-tainers. Morgan -will bring with him a new female -vocalist whom 11:c selected last week. ---o----- 01ltiug Club Dinner written by Moulto:n. ME;mbers of On Tuesday evening, May 4th at the club also put on a. skit entitle<! 5:30 the Outing Club wm hold a \Grand Opera U'po to Date,\ a d:lnner in Hale House. Foliowing travesty of \Faust:'\ the dinner the annual election of A dance followed the concert.l officers will take place. The price Music was furnished by the Garnet ()f th·e meal will be 65 cents. Each Goblins. member Is urged to attend·. To Discuss '38 Pl'Ogram The Union College Chapter of the National Civil Service Reform League will hold its second all-im- portant organization meeting Tues- day night, May- 11, at Old Chapel, at 8:30 o\clock. At that time, the program for next year will be discussed, a local charter will be drawn up, officers will be chosE;n for the coming term and the details of the New York meeting of the national league will be explained. Robert L. Johnson. president of the National Civil Service Reform League, p()inted out at the college organization gathering at the Hotel Commodor·e last Thursday, that such a gt'OU!> as is contemplated being set up in the various colleges and universities ih the country is the best way to protect the coun- try from Fascism and to develop a stronger and better government. A majority of the points of the program that Jerome Smith, '39 and Malcolm Amy, '37, Union rep- resentatives at the New York meet- ing had submitted to Mr. Johnson, were incorporated in a general col- lege plan distributed to the dele- gates fmtn 31 colleges last Thurs- day.

Page Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MAY 4, 1937 /11 \\'U,.llr~A\~{bflt11(•l2. set~~: c{~~c~:~i:~:~sy ~~::s [;~~et~~ll~;:s;~\~ II• ]·. : ... · \LV» £,, .• .• lJ •. 41 41 and should accept pm·t of the responsibility ·• ( 0 L U M N for Union College's welfare. Twelve years u';============;;;;;;;;;=======;;;;:;;;===-=ll ''r1 Cau.sa Persa Parole Assai\ aftel· the present seniors graduate most ef MU~IC By HERBER.T ~. FOX I Is S'chenect;1dy always to be a FouNDED 1877 them will be well situated financially. By 'Tltis last was a good week-end, But shU we've cause to look at lifo 9 ulturally \little\ town!? Ip. answer- almost too good, in fact. Ha!'Lem wILD zest, ing this question we must probe Night took a lot out of us. Th.ere .to'or l-Onen has not pa.ssed his swin- into what constitu.tes such a com- was. an unreal quality about the mmg test. munity. A sma;ll to-wn .iJ.sually takes whole affair; the D. U. house spun We lute to think or him in early a smug and self-satisfied attitude wi til faces blackened beyond recog- June, .toward its own activities, confident nition ·but insistently familiar. Th.e Arnvmg at the gym, and none t.oo that if they do-n't actua1ly exceed IDean and Mrs. Garis shone like the soon, New York standa. 1 ·ds they can at •best anthracite; the von Forst- ~qurp.ped. with water-wings a.ncl least equal them. The reflection of m.yers were dusky and ener·getic.. out-boal'<l motuz·, this attitude is to be .found in the \Ve had planned to come green,• And loud ·he H ca11 le> Heaven. that local .press. !<:l16 .Member !<l37 f:Usociated CoUe6iate Press Distributors of Cbllee,iate Di5est REF RESENTED FOA N'ATIONAL. A'\'vE..HHbiNG BV National Advertising Service, Inc. College .Publisl1ers Re'{lresentatlva 42.0 MADISC>N AVE'., NEW YORK, N.Y. CH !CAGO BOSTON • SAN FRANCISCO LOS ANGELES • PORTL.AND ,. SEATft.E '!'he official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fri- days throughout the college year, except dur· ing Christmas and Spring recesses. Publication Of.fice, The Gazette Press,334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at th.e Schenectad·y Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United State.s. Editorial Rooms, Sillimo.n Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Senim· Board Hyman A. Enzer ................ Editor-in-Chief 11 S. S. South Collt•ge-6-~72b Julius J. Bundgus .............. Edito1'ial Board ~ 8. :::;_ .Suuth Culh~~:;c~-l,j-~7:!b Robert H. Fetguson .. , .. , ..... Editorial Board 1·~i Lp~ituu---l-b71U Henry D. Hartmann .. , ..... , .. Editorial Board ~\I l'mnn .\ Vt\.--l-!J'i'6~J Carl R. Tro.hman., .. , . , .. , .... Editorial Board K::q 'Pa S:gma --·1-~~:!=:t .James W. Righter ........... Business Manager lJt'lt..a l..:J,J~iluu Hou:se-4-7~~.2 Alfred R. Seigle ......... Circulation Manager K<Li-'l,a ~u--1·7:!31 ---- ------'-''---------·----- Junior Board ASlSOCIATB EDITORS Herbert o. Fo-x Robert A. Saaf F1ederick W. Hequembourg Je1ome Smith H. Wyman Hitchcock David G. Taft David B. Miller Robert C. Walter, Jr. Edward C. Retartylt ------------------ Sophomore Board A.ssistant Editors C. Ru~sell De yo·, Christopher M. Fahy, Rupel t L. Gilmore, William G. Gormley, Albert H. Ha.lavin, Richard S. Harrison, George L. Peck, Lawrence V. Pellettier. Jr., Thomas H. Ral- ston, Towmend J. Rifenbury, John J. Stt>idl!l M. Gale Hoffman. Issue Editors Robert Walte~.· Robert Saaf Tuesday, May 4, 1937 A PUBLIC HEARING The Unio11 College student body has al- mo::;t profound ignorance as to how and why it::; tax fund is appropriated. The Student Tax Committee has fl'equently been accused of mi::;appropriation of student taxes. The accusations have been a::; vehement at times as they have been unfounded on fact. Tomorrow night the tax committee hopes to resolve many of the disturbing questions concet·ning how student funds are being handled. There has never been such an op- pot·tunity in the recent past for students to ask questions face to face with the student and faculty members of the c()mmittee. Whatever alleged secrecy may have shrouded the committee will be lifted tomor- row night in a public hearing which has been granted to every student tax payer in the college. Everyone is welcome to fire away. The upportanity is too good to be missed. The misunderstanding that has been grow- ing in a stadent body that is unacquainted with its tax administering body should be cleared up. FOR UNION COLLEGE In the lugubrious last will and testament of the former senior b()ard two weeks ago. several thing-s were wished for Union Col-. lege. Scholarships, new buildings, and more professorships. There was one significant prayer in the long list-\we should like to see more money in the endowment.\ Prior to that final declat·ation some publi- city had b€en attempted on an insurance plan for the pt'esent senior class which would help build up the endowment fund of the college. Why the endowment fund needs building up can be answered simply by a college ad- ministration which wants to go forward but which is severely hampered by lack of money. The new library, the new gymnas- ium, the new offices which are so sorely needed by a college that intends to progress can come only with the increase of the en- dowment. that time an insurance fund, begun in 1937, will have enough accrued intel'est or divi- dends to enable an alumnus to make a size- able contribution to the college. The possi- bilities and variations are many. A plan such as the suggested senior insur- ance policy with Union College as a bene- fici<try is more than. worthy of our active e !\fort. lNTERCOLLE GIA TE RACKET jusl foz· the sake of variety, :But nell tloat or In reading .the reviews of con- ·the Mountebanks' ma:ke-up (which· Sink, at least, with honor; to the certs, movies, and plays in the we stole) had a bad way of streak-. brim Schenectady Gazette and the Sche- ·ing. So after about an hour of ex- Advance, and plung·e, and wash n.ectady Unio.n-Sta.r, one invariably perimenting with the assistance of away the gym. ·notices the inevitable reiteration of ·~ ,pint e>f 8cotch, we were r·educed' No, we Cl.ld not nave much fun this :bromidic phrases heaping praises 'to a patent chocolate brown prep-. :>eason,. . . , . , up<:>n mediocre performances. Ex- llration which didn't streak and But still we Wl'li reJOICe and With amples of this tendency may be '·came off at the rate of about ten good reason, :found in the reviews of the Grain- minutes per square inch. But the For we are cursed with neither :;on ger concert in the Union-Star. The :~arty was a success. Black, slip- nor daughter, 'critic findJS the skill ·Of the orches- . [>ely-looking faces and brown And L-ohen 1>< not ovei·-fond o1 'tra \amazing\ a.nd the talent of lntercollegmte exehange such as was ex- .amudgy ones hovered in the misty water. Mr. Grainger \scupe~lative.\ Such h \b\ d h th\ 1 d t th · f a.Ir and strange dialects assailed .t'erhaps he'll come at midnigllt obvious over-stato3ment of fact can 1 rte ere lS wee t-en a e sessiOns 0 .. '.~ur' ears. Our good fr 1 ·end, Mrs. ~ wnen the da1k ·only occur be<)ause ,()f three rea• Model Council of the Lea<Yue of Nations obvi- '.Jenkins, peeped with ebony .coyness Conceals h1s shame, and like th.e sons. . \' . . ,:above a huge red feather fan, anc1ent ark The reviewer may llctua!ly think ously has a place at Un1011 College. F1rst, lt,:Freddy Wyatt was bitu.minously ::let sail upon the chlol'inated ·tieep that, because the concert occurred puts the colleo'e on the map with other edu-rhealthy and pmperly embarrassed w h1le au save Mr. Wittner •lie in the fair city of Schenectady, it • • .\' . . . ~;by the floor show. \We liked that a.sleep. must be of a high qu.ality. cat10nal 1nst1tutwns. Second, 1t stunulates::feature very much out\Self and But, tnen, perhaps, when all seoerns· It is improbaf>,le that any local such intellectual discussion as occasionallyi't~ank whoever sent the sw!ng~ng going well, critic could invariably- labor under :,sister over to do her swtngmg Anu r1pp1es underneath his tuo::uuy the impression that .all of Schenec- at\O·Se at the sessions F1·iday and Saturday. ·,VIi thin eighteen inches of our eager swell, tady's various <:ultural activmes , , . 1· eyes.) The joy was very unco-nfined, He'll feel his journalistic brain go. are praiseworthy-, The explanation The Model Council Itself, representmg the: and even in our moments of most groggy, must lie elsew·here. sterile League of Nations is by 110 means. an; febrile gaye.ty we were glad to ~ee His l!mbs expand and all his. fnune Does he think. that he actually ' • Dr. Fox Wlthout make-up, white, grow soggy, he·lps the musical life of the city if ideal organization. :But aside from its defi-: bland and, somehow, reassuring, as He'll kn(}w that like some ancient he indiscriminately offers equal · · th d l f th L •t k · he noddied to Hebrew and Irish :>ponge which .bogged praise to all? If so, he defeats his Cl€11CleS as e mo e 0 e ea.gue, 1 ma es: 1<1ather Divines. In se>me primeval morass, water- :very purpose in existin,g. A critic a starting point for roundtables, seminars,, * * * logged, is supposed to aid the public in dif- we \r · d t dm\t th t (The sponge to w hie h by geuealogic feren tiating between the good, and similar discussions. It hel)'l,s students.. \' e pame ·o a 1 a • 1:' after vigomus expressions of eagel'- links mediocre, and bad. He should· be realize they can think for themselves. ' ness, we didn't get the Kruesi Self- He is connected, by whose life he unco-mpromising in his standards Improvement Prize. As a matter of sinks) and in his criticism, In accepting But the 1\lodel Council and the Model As- fact, we are getting mad at the His flaccid flesh receives the eager as good a poor performance, he bl h ,, 1 h dl t U · · faculty about that and will begin wave, leads others to do likewise, which ::>em Y ave veen 1ap · aza1· Y run a mon to hate them again on the slightest And with majestic slowness seeks lowers the general cultural level of College. The assembly delegates especially p1·ovocation. its tilted grave. the comm~.tnity, indirectly hurting And so in learning's and in f<Jlly's and not boosting struggling organ- have found the model organization a means· There isn't much left of this year, spite izatlons, and since we are in a summarizing In spite of weary day and sleepless We admit that one cannot judge fol' getting a free week-end tdp to another mood we will write a poem on the ' h . mg t, a local woman's club chorus by the college. Students find the week-end vacatiO·ll subject whrle we still have time. In sptte of faculty and deans a.nd same standard that one would Now in the spring of 1937 classes, judge the New York Orator·io So- at Cornell, Syracuse, or Hamilton as entel'• While Sunday Chapel points the In spite of flunks and in despite ciety, However v;e do advocate tak- t · · \f t ' t d' ' way to Heaven, of passes, lng into account the lower stand- ammg 1 110 as Vll\ UOUS as a · lSCUSSIOn Oll And Dr. Fox gets out his linen suit, One joy is left, that pride pre~edes ard and giving credit o.nly where !3e osa·t·abl\a a11d Jel'USalein. And Hale House adve1·tises recent ~ fruit, a crash, it is due. In revie1ving a concert 'fl · 1 · f d 1 Or better, that it goes hefore a such as the one last Tuesday eve- lere IS 110 se ect1011 0 StU ents W 10 al.'e And Mrs. Fox equips herself with splash, ning, two standard& must be em- tl'.ained Ol' who have at least siO'ned up for a seed, That every lordly step may bring ployed. It woald be hopeless to ., Pt·aises the rose, and frowns upon its fall, compare the Schenectady Sym- Cl)Ul'Se in international law or even European the weed, And dem(}Cratic water covers all. phony with those of Boston, New We, with cubic, crocodllian tear histoJ·y. Anyone who signs his name to the With one small satisfaction we are York, or Philadelphia. It must be M:ay summarize the acadenJiC year. ·blessed, compared with its past achieve- membership roster of the Model Assembly is We suffered from the weather, but Which in a single line may be ex- ments and wilb what its ultimate elections .pressed. goal should be. But when the guest eligible to mix with students from othet• col- Were not so bad, and had we had THE MIGHTY COHEN HAS NOT artist is a man of wide fame such leg-es anti discuss pertinent questions with connections PASSED HIS SWIMNLNG as Mr. Grainger he should be We would not be impoveri><hed TEST. judged by a. highel\ and more ex- them. today acting standard, No concessions But safe, beneath the W. P. A. F- H. should be made to his shortcom- The alleged attendance and participatio11 ings. of the Union College representatives at the new faces, Top of the •row111 very If this \y6's-yes\ policy is due te> }ilodel Assembly in lthaea last week was C 1 N EM A ! nearly defeats its own end b·.Y try-· the domination of advertisers, the ing t.o create an impr·ession of ~nag- fault does ruot lie wholly with the typical of how the intercollegiate racket By JOHN B. DOWUNG nificance upon John Q, Fan . .Action reviewer. N() organization should is subordinated to what Uni versa! demand false criticism but should work:;;. A group of students made the trip t() J!.;;;==========-;=== regards a.s entertain·ment. As. a. re- welcome constructive criticism as Ithaca and disappeared until the time for . suit, the dazzled eye is likEly- to well as P'ra.ise_ And smely no or- ~rop of the Town l Uni versa!; blink shut in slumber. ganization should threaten to with- leaving· arrived. Consequently Union College Proctor's), like the kind of' night draw advertising o1· good will be- . , b 1 I Promise to Pay \Columbia) ef- caus\ of a few adverse· but well did not benefit because its delegates did not club entertamment It ur esques, fectively exposes the loan-snark. mearrt statem~nts. is pretentious but not very arnus- k t \th th \d f ,...,h t -· \tte11d 110 d1\d 1\t st d t f' d · · · t l 1 h W ld rae e Wl e al 0 '\' es. er It shou.ld not be ve1·y hard to c... , r s U .en s · 1n JOY 111 lll e- ing. The Richwt Girl n t e or· M · H M k M d 1 . \t orr1s, elen ac , arc Law- remedy th1's s1\tuat1\on. If the re- I t 1 h l she of the many faces an 1m1 - d th Th t 1 b ec ua exc ang·e. less experiences) returns from Eu- renee, an o ers. e a e orne viewer is i=orant or indifferent, Th f th t . f th · d here is of an average citizeo who, he should \'e replaced, If he be- e reasons Qol' e con 1nuance o e. rope with her sleek head cr-.a:mme b t f t · t 'd th '\' . . . ea en up or rymg o av~1 e lieves that he is helping groups ~lodel Council and for the abolition of the ~~t~f i~:~: ~:r a~·~~; 1 cu~~i=~t~~; exorbitant interest payments de- by always [>raisin.g them, he should b manded by the racketeers, sum- be disillusio-ned. If he is domr·nated ;\lodel Assembly cannot be mentt\OJled het'e. about to open the \'Moon earn h t II h\ mons up enoug. courage o ·;:e 1s by advertisers, he should make Room,\ a two million dollar roof- t t th l' d t 1 But the evidence of the meetings of the as- top cafe which would make an ex- shory 0 . he podwe an . 0 . supp Y every attempt to secure an lnde- t em w1t evi ence suffiCl-<lnt to pendent positio0n. semb]y and the council in the past week is cellent guinea pig for her eX!peri- start a clean-up. Were it not for a 0 __ _ · ments, she decides to leatn the top-notch performance by Leo proof enough that only one of these organiza.-· business from the bottom up. Ro- Carillo, this would be routine melo- t . · th f · t h rnance rears its ugly head when drama. lOBS liS wor · y o ex1s ence ere. • she meets an enterprising young EXAM SCHEDULE The new examination schedule, designed to reduce the number of days for final ex:- aminations, is a very effective piece of work. So effective is it that it has resulted in a.n overcrowding of work for students. Orr.e juniot· we know will take five examinati~rrs in a. row this June. Luckily, Sunday comes between the third and fourth ones. We pity him by the time that third exam comes up. If he is human, which we think he is, he '~ill be quite confused and tired. But he will not be excused if he fails any of them. Admirable as the idea of eliminating sev- eral examination days may be, it isn't wolth- while if such crowding occurs. Final examll are difficult and faulty at best. Matters shouldn't be made worse by forcing students to take one after another without rest m· 'a chance for review. We suggest that a more thorough study be made before next year's schedule is made out to eliminate such crowding of exams. Jf a few more examination days will remedy this fault, they should be added to the schedule. · band-leader who, seeking the .. Moon Beam Room\ .~-ontract, thinks he may impress the owners lJy hiring their niece for his floor show. The avuncular reaJCtion. (the phrase alone i·s worth the price of admission) is quite unfavorable, however, and be is forced to take drastic measures to discour-ag.e her ambitions. But in the midst of the ardous routine he designs for this purpose, he is nipped by the love bug; but the girl accidently learns he i·s trying to get rid of her and quits. The broken-hearted band- leader gets the contract and s.ets about to organize his entertain- ment. Then, just as everything is runnin;g smoothly, our heroine re- turns; she junks the original plans, introduces some numbe1s of her own conce.ption, and rehearses a new ca.st. Opening night arrives; the show ·begins LO function, and, after a brief interval, the audience starts a wholesale walkout. But the resourceful hero has kept his en- tertainers at hand and cu.ts in on the scheduled program wiU1 a jam- boree. Seeing the audien~e imme- diately return to the table.s, the R. G. i. t. W. realizes that la-di-da and hi-de-ho don't mix and adnnits her mistake·. Clinch and fadeo-ut. Doris Nolan and George Mnrphy handle the lead roles rather well, and. Hugh Herbert, Gregory Ratoff, Peggy Ryan, and Henry Armetta provide adequate support. The Three Sailors ar·e as good as Ger• tl\\Ude Niessen is bad. And best of the cast is Ella Logan, vthose strident chanting you are bound to relish. Designed to popularize several Columbia's Situati~>n THE PEAOE STRIKE Yesterday's peace strike proved a great disappointment to t:hose o1 us who have seen progress:ive ac- tivity grow to a place of imp~rtanuP. at Columbia. Two years ago, a group which was ·broadly divided on the princi· ples of its opposition to war .packed the University gymnasium to the rafters with a crowd that came through a driving rain to attend. This year a sparse gathering joined a demonstrati<Jn virilually u:nlted in its put-pose. The prostitution of the peace movement to the needs of <.Campus politics must bear the brunt of re- sponsibility for the failure, Libera. activities <!'o not survive when the) are tm·ned into war-horses foT am- bitious Juniors. The principal problem of those honestly interested in the pl\Ogres- slve movement is to root out indi- viduals Who take its name fot> what it is worth in votes and gi-ve 'noth- ing in return. There 1ue still enough sincere liberals remaining on Morningside to carry on_ and re- vive wh'Rt is left of the pr~gressive movement. Only if this is accomplished can Columbia hope for a contin-uance of its progressive student tradition. -Co.lumbia Spe~tator. Notes On Contemporaries No Dental Cripple Cheers ft'()ffi passers-by and honks fr<nn cars didn't discourage the Kilgore College coed who brushed her teeth in front of a fill- ing station recently. She continued the up and down plying until she finished he:t• inne1·most molar. From Mayor to Ft•oshl Earnest in his desire to acquirJ\ more education, Dr. J. N. Harber, whose fortune is estimated at $3,- 000,000, enrolled at the University e>f Oklahoma. He resigned his posi- tion as mayor of Seminole, Okla. Nw.o~i W~mdering So that German universities will have a better chance to inculcate the Nazi spirit and attract students away from the f1·aternity or \cor- poration\ wa.:_y of living, the Ger- man govermnent has. banned wan- dering from <me institution to an- other. Students will l;le required to spend at least three semesters at the same unt-versity. Old Maids AYe Happy! Modern girls wouldn't be beal·t- broken if thEy never married be- cause they h.ave enough resources within themselves to make a suc- cessful, well-:rounded life, says Dr. Jean Menden_hall of Boston Univer- sity's college of physical education. It's a Nice :Bay How to acqujre poise and talk naturally wh.jJe in the presence of grandmother, small children or the boy friend Is now being taught at the University of New Mexico by Lena C, Claave, dean of women. Not Football 'l'he athletic revenue of the Uni- versity of Michigan :for the past 15 years amoun is to $7,032,676.43. 1' N 0 G ·Lo J the har tea Un fac one Ga1 Wil Car not sch Du1 a b lr be gle• Do1 siti< tea1 mal yet can. atio was T firs1 horr !ian wee F• pail Uni· nin! othE gle.s Uni• bun Col~ Tl HaY\ Dwc Ortc Kes1 Rat! Mor HJ Qua K• Sch1 St Cort Tt its whe: Call< on COUl' play ago 3 tie viet< tam< Ca only win the at c Beru indi' 72 . mate werE whi< Tl In• 5an Ben1 Ada1 on tl derb Fie!< Wils BE scho lich, defe1 up c C, <' and NOI Lam Phi Beta Kap Phi EAS Kap The1 Sign Alpl1 Alpl Neu1

a be at of he- bly of be of can it nee- if his dif- be he judge the So- tak- tand- here eve- em- to Sym- New be imate guest such be ex- to the the as or- with- ill be- t well to he re- ferent, be- should make inde- and who a flll- she acquirJC at $3,- iversity posi- Okla. will \cor- Ger- wan- to an- to at heart- be- a suc- Dr. Univer- talk of or the· at by the Uni- past 15 THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MAY 4, 193'7 Page Three Tennis, Golf Teams Home Tomorrow ------------------------------------------------. I I I IN THE SHOWERS • I 'by CARL TRAHl\1AN I ~---------------------------------------- Netmen in Return Meet With Colgate On UniGn Courts SPORTS CALENDAR Wednesday Vat·sity Tennis, Colgate Univer- sity, Union caurts. Varsity Golf, Middle'bury Col- Lege, Mohawk Country C1u.b. Varsity Nine Faces Frosh Ball Team Syracuse in Game. Wins Over Draper Here This Friday I 1 L-----------------------------------------------~ You may look fur decided changeti in the minor .,;port ~ituation at Union next year. A short time ago upon the resignation of Bill Leonard as swimming coach it was announced that Joseph Wheatley, former swim·rning champion, would direct the tankmen in the future .. Since th.at time Mr. Wheatley has beea sizing up prospective matet·tal for next yea•r's squad in semi-weeltly practices held in the Gym each Tues- day and Friday. These out-of-searson sessions_ certainly will help p~t the Union swimmers in the winning column m 1937-38. A change m coaches for the golf team is also rumored but as yet there has been no offlciaJ announcement to that effect, and it is very probable that fencing will be altogether dropped now that Mr. Forstmeyer, who 'Started the sport here is leaving. We remember the times when the fencing team was the only one of the winter sports teams to bring hame Garnet 'Victories and we regt·et to see fencing discontinued here. Garnet Team Opens Stand Here; Lo-ses to Maroon 8 to l Saturday Golfers Face Middlebury ·Look for Victo1·y in First Contest Here; Beaten Saturday 8 tD 1 After suffer.ing an 8 to 1 defeat, the third of the season, at the hands of a powerful Colgate net team, at Hatnilton Saturday the Union College t·acquet men will face the Maroon squad for the sec- ond time in a return match on the Garnet courts tomorrow afternoon. With the added services of Bob Carr and Doug- Murphy, who could not play at C(}lgate because of scholastic embal'l'assment, the Dutchmen are looking forward to a better day tomorrow. In all probability Bob Carr will be number th1•ee man in the sin- gles against the Maroon with Doug Murphy in numbe1· five po- sition. Carr and Murphy will also team up In one of the doubles matches. Coach Aydelotte has yet to pick a. :man to fill the va- cancy in the Orton-Salad combin- ation caused when Bernie Salad was forced to quit the squad. The match tomorrow will be the first the Garnet has played on its home courts, the Syracuse and WH- liams contests scheduled here la.st week having. b&en :rained out. Fritz Hawley and Marve Dwore, pairing up in the d(}ubles, made Union's only score, at Colgate, win- ning 8-6, 6-1. Colgate swept all other matches with only two sin- gles matches, between Hawley of Uuion and Wood of Colgate, Rath- bun of Union and Quackenbos of Colgate, going to three sets. The summru·ies; Colgate 8--Union 1 Hawley-Wood ......... 6-2 3-6 3-6 Dwore-Smi th .......... 8-10 3-6 Orton-Schmitt ......... 2-6 5-7 Keasler-Semple ........ 5-7 4-6 Rathbun-Quackenbos .. 2-6 6-4 0-6 Morrison-Galpin ....... 0-6 1-6 Hawley and Dwore-Wood and Quackenbos, 8-6, 6-1. Kessler and R.athbun-Srnith and Schmitt, o-a, 1-6. Stewart and Baxter-Collins and Corts, 1-6, 2-6. ----0--- Golf The Union golf team, will play its first home match tomorrow when it tackles the Middlebury College squad in a return match on the Mohawk Country Club course. The first match the Garnet played with Middlebury, a week ago in Vermont, resulted in a 3 to 3 tie. Union, still trying for its first victory, has a good chance to win tomorrow. Captain Monty Froelich was the only man on the Union squad to win a match last Saturday when the Dutchmen <lropped its match at Colgate 8 to 1. He defeated Van Benscho.ter O>f the Maroon in his individual match with a 78 on a 72 par course. Union lost four matches by single points. Playoffs were necessary for three rounds which were tied on the eighteenth. The summaries: Individule-Fay, C, diefeated Geer, 5 and 4; Froelich, U, defeated Van Benschoten, 1 up on the 19th; Adamsen, C, defeated. Brown, 1 up on the 19th; Horn, C, defeated Van- derbilt, 1 u,p; Harris, C, defeated Field, 4 and 2.; Clapp, C, defeated Wilson, 6 and 5. Best baJl-Fay and Van Ben- schoten, C, defeated Geer and Froe- lich 1 up· Adarnsen and Horn, C, def~ated Brown and Vanderbilt, 1 up on the 19th; Harris and Clapp, C, defeated Field and Wilson, 4 and 2. Thursday Defeats High School In 14 to 5 Victory; Mould Pitches Nine •Freshman Baseball vs. Al- bany High, Alexander Field, Friday Varsity Baseball, Syracuse Uni- versity, Alexander Field. Varsity Golf, Colgate University, Mohawk Country Club. Track Team Beats Rochester Runners Conquers Yellow Jackets By 80 1-3 to 50 1-3; Garnet Takes Ten First Places Jolms HDpkins Contest Fol- lows on Saturday; Practice Games This Week Beaten by Rochester Garnet Uses Three Pitche1·s In Attempt to Avert 17 to 3 Defeat; Fielding Poor In a ga..me featured by a bar- rage of base hits. the freshman baseball team defeated the Dra- per High Schoc:;l nine yesteeday afternoon by a score of 14 to 5. A closely fought contest for the first four and a half frames, the frosh llCOI'ed one run in hte first inning with Brockner, lead off man, hit- ting the fkst ball pitched for a triple and scoring on Grosso's hit to the third baseman who fum- Practice, practice and plenty of bled it. The Draper nine evened it is the order of events this vveelt the score in its half of the third. for Duke Nelson's varsity base- The Frosh pulled ahead in deci- chai•ges. Scheduled to play Sy- sive fashion in their half of the racuse and Johns Hopkins teams f(}urth by knocking five runs The Union College track team here on this Friday and Saturday across the plate. Draper sent four continued its winning ways last respectively, the Union nine, after t·uns across in the next inning but suffering a 17 to 3 shellackitlg with the tying and what might Saturday when it decisively out- from Rochester on Alexande1· have proved to be the winning cindered: the Rochester University Field last Saturday, is receiving run on base, lanky AI Mould who Yellow Jackets at Rochester by the vigorous overhauling in all de- started for the Frosh, retired the score of 80 1-3 to 50 2-3. It was the partments in the hope that some .of next three men to face him. From the glaring weaknesses brought then on it was all for the year- second straight win for the Garnet t 1· ht · th h o 1g m e game wit tlte lings. They scored five runs In and marked a disastrous debut for Yellow Jackets, can be ironed the next inning, one in the sixth, the Rochester trackmen. out. and two in the seventh. The Dutchmen took first places Workouts for the rest of the The freshmen made six errors, in ten events, sweeping the field week will be mainly devoted to many of which were the means in the broad jump with Captain intra-squad practice games of Draper's scoring, Doc Maines Sherman Hirst winning and J3loom Coach .Nelson hasn't definitely relieved Mould and pitched the and Doyle tying for sec(}nd honors. chosen his pitchers for the week.-· last two innings setting down the Bill Hawkes ran first in both the end game but either Haskell or men who faced him in order. distance events, the mile and two- Jones is certain to sta·rt Fdday Thursday afternoon the frooh mile, and Fryer of Union brolte the against Syracuse. The r-est of meet Albany High School on tape in the 440 yd. dash in the the lineup will remain the same Alexander Field, Chet Robinson time 50.5. as it was in the Rochester game. will start, and the same line up As was predicted the close com- Jones lnju.red will be used that started yester- petition produced a new Roc:hes- day. ter University record in the high Saturday was a field day for !Jnlo11- All It H PO A E jump. Wells of the Yellow Ja.ckets Rochester. Kept moderately un- Bml'kue,·, lh ....... ;, 1 2 6 o u der control until the fourth inll- Tann<'r, 2b • · · · · · · · • · 3 1 0 0 2 2 jumped 5 feet 11 inches, closely fol- Grosso, If ••••.•••..•• 3 0 2 1 0 0 lowed by Zoller and Weller of Ro- ing when Colby Jones, Garnet Feldman, cf ••.•• , , ••. 4 3 4 3 0 o chester. twirler, was retired because of an Patrio, ss ..•......... 4 a 2 0 2 1 injury after yielding tw(} hits a:nd Santoro, .rf .......... 3 1 0 2 0 0 The summaries: two runs, the Yellow Jacket bat- Hanson, 3b .......... 5 2 2 3 0 3 se~~~-,r.ar~r~~~jl';;;:: W~i~l ~}'th~~d~' 1 J~~t: ters got four hits and eleven runs ~\o 1 :R:r· Pc :::::::::::: ~ ~ i ~ g g <U). Time--10.2. in the next four innings off Ty- Schalansker, rf ...... 1 0 1 0 0 0 22 o.yar<l dash-Won l!y Hirst, (UJ; ler Dennett who made a wild and r;:a.i 1 nes, pd ............ 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 o 0 0 0 wooly debut as a relief pitcher n< erwoo · c · · · · · · · · HO~Olld, !;len. ru J; thir<l, Prozellor, f J H 1 II I Totals ............. 35 14 17 24 6 7 <Rl. Time-22.6. or ones. as 'e rep aced Den- Dl'ILfJer- All R H PO A .E 440-yard <lash-\Von loy Fryer .. <U>; nett in the eighth hut could not Fulner, cf ........... 3 1 I 0 0 0 second, Schugg, (lJ); third, Woocl, stem the Rochester avalanche, al- llr[scoe, sa ••••••••.• 3 1 I 2 1 0 no. Time-50.5. lowing five hils and four tallies. Wolfe. 3b-p .......... 3 1 0 0 o 0 880-yard run-Won by Annese, (UJ; Hamil, rf-p ......... 4 0 1 2 0 0 eecond, McCowan, ( R) ; third, Hoyt, Union fielders gave the pit- Briggs, 2b .•.••..•... 3 0 0 3 0 1 (R). Time-2 :06. chers little support. The infield Terry. c ............. 4 0 0 10 2 l 2-mile run-Won b~· Hawkes, (Ul: accounted for all six Garnet Ill\· Sebast, 1b .. · ........ · 4 0 0 4 0 0 second. Delaney, (R); third, \Veils, zors. Frequent overthrows on the ~~~~\r~~~~f 1 .r .. ::::::: ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ({T). Time-10 :38.6. bases and mistakes in judgement Stewart, rf .......... 1 1 1 0 0 0 Mile run- Won by Hawlces, ( U J ; in addition to generally sloppy Simone, 2b .......... 1 0 0 0 0 0 second, Newton, (R); thircl, R. Den· fielding spelt disaster to the Un- Cronle{ 2b ............ 0 0 0 0 0 1 ton, (UJ. Time-4 :47.3. ion team, which had its first real I'ucha ski, If ........ 1 0 0 0 0 0 120-yard high hUl'dles-Won by Day, Totals ............. 32 6 6 21 4 3 (U): second, Wells, (H); third, Wain- test of the season in this game. Draper ................ 001 040 00- 5 gartner, (R). Tlme-16.8. Brown, at first base, and Miller Union .................. 100 551 2*-14 * ·* ,, With the formation of an unofficial freshman gulf squad recently through the efforts of a small group of first year men, the college reached the point where it has official or unofficial yearling squads in every minor and major rspo1t included on the Union athletic sched.- ule. It is good to see that enough interest .is evidenced in every sport to warrant freshman teams, whi~h condition promising var~>ity ma- ter-ial and give coaches a pre-view of their next year's chances. * * .. Perhaps you noticed the miniature Matterhorn we have for a pitch- ing mound out on Alexander field. lt seems that the engineering de- partment had somethjng to do with malting it .•. The trouble with lacrosse at Union these days is not with the team, for we have one of the best tens we've had in recent years with at least two men, Paul and J. Smith, almost certain to make All-American. Rather does our difficulty He in securing referees far the games who know what lacrosse is all about. Take the Stevens game a while back for example. Vandecar's goal, which meant a Union win, seemed per- feetly good to spectators and players a:f both teams but referee Henry ruled no tally with resulting tie score. Perhaps lacrosse is still too limited in its appeal to make it possibl.e to get expert officials. • • \' In this issue we are printing the standings of the leagues in the intramural softball competition. They are probably not completely up to date or completely accurate but we shall follow them up with more ratings in the future. Incidentally we believe the intramural program should be even more inclusive nex.t year. Official table tennis and bowling tournament~> would undoubtedly attract a great number of entrants. The average student is probably more personally interested in the intrar.nurals than in college sporfcs. • • The Union tennis team has had hard 1uc1t aplenty so far this season. Losing its finst two matches away by the close score of 5 to 4 each time and rained ont in the contests scheduled here last week., Union has not ·been able to ]llay as yet with the squad at full strength because in a:way matches the team is crippled through ineligibility of some of the mem- bers on scholarship grounds. The ·players are eagerly looking forward to tomorrow's return match here with Colgate, which defeated them 8 to 1 la.st Saturday, and believe they have a good chance of turning the tables on the Maroon. Coach Nels Nitchman is losing no time in tackling next fall's foot- ball problems. He has been holding spring practice for the gridders for over two weeks, drilling on fundamentals for the most part. With spring football and ew:imming practice, sports at Union are fast losing theil· seasonal quality. They are taken seriously enough to warrant attention the year round. and Thomas in the outfield loolt- Two-base hits-Briscoe, Feldman 2, 220-yard low hurdles-Won by Day, Fulner, Hanson 2, Palmer, Patrie. ( U); second, Derrick, U; third, Kin- ed best for the Dutchmen. Three-base hlts-Brockner, Patrie. ney, (R). Time-26.6. The summet·t'es.· Stolen ba\es- Witerwax, Broelwer, Mile relay- Won Ly Rochester. Strucl' out-By 1\iould 6, Maines 3, Frosh Tennis Team Wins Over Pawling School 4-3 Compliments <Kridel, McPherson, Adington, B\t· Ulllon- AB R H POA E Schelle 6, Hamil 2, Wolfe 1. Base on zell). Time-a :36.4. M er 2h 3 1 5 3 2 balls-Off Mould 1, Schelle 5, Hamil. While Union's varsity tennis team Shot put- Won by Xordburg, (R) : r Y s, • • · · • • · • • · • · Umpires-Connelly, Ruskowslti. se~ond, Gatchell, (U); third, Slirrgi.,, Marra, ss · · · · · · · · · ·- · 4 0 o 2 4 :J was losing 8 to 1 at Colgate Sat- < H). Distance-38 feet IO'h inches. Drown, Ill ....... · • · 3 1 0 8 2 0 urday, the Garnet unofficial year- Discus-Won lly Sturgis, (R) ; see· Miller, If · \ .. · ..... · 3 ° 1 1 0 0 ~ ~ ling netmen, coached by Mr. H. ond, McDowell, (Rl; third, Mill, (R) •. Thomas, cf .......... 4 0 1 2 1 0 Distance-122 feet 1 inch. Amazon, 3b .......... 4 0 1 1 1 1 INTRAMURALS Lawrence Acllilles, scored the (}nly Pole vault-Tie for first between Wylie, rf · ......... -. 3 l 0 0 1 0 home victory of the weekend, Pomattic, <UJ, and Myers, (U); tie Yunich, c · · .. · ·· · ... · 1 0 0 3 0 0 downing the Pawling School team, for second among Van Wert, (U), Day, .Jones. P ·· ........... · 1 0 0 2 1 0 J.!=:============;;;;;;;=!! under the direction of Austin M. ( HJ ; Shetterly, (R). Height-10 feet Dennett, P .••.•.•.•. 1 0 0 0 0 0 9 inches. . Haskell, p . . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 o o o 0 Softball Fox '85, by the score 4 to 3. High jump-Won by Wells, <R): ne Cammarota, c ·\ ·· · 1 0 0 3 1 0 The freshmen got off to a bad for second between Zoller, <R>. and Duchscherer · · ....... 1 0 0 0 0 0 The following games postponed Weller, (RJ. Heigltt-5 feet II i11ches. Totals .. · ......... 29 3 4 27 14 li from April 23 will be played this start dropping the first three sin- < New re~ord). . · . ltochostot·- AB R. H POA E evening at 7:00 p. m.: Alpha Phi gles matches, but toolt all the re-: Broad jump-Won bY 1-hrst, (C) • Mason If 4 2 1 4 o o Delta vs. Theta Delta Ch 1 ·., South maining events. Ralston and Rob- tie for seconrl between Bloom, (U), and ' · · · · · ·· · · ·· · Doyle, (U). Distance-21 feet 3~a Mee, cf · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 6 3 3 1 1 0 College vs. Delta Upsilon; Phi ins(}n both won their singles , Robeson, rf .......... 3 1 1 1 ·o 0 Gamma Delta vs. Lambda Chi matches and the Kane-RaJston and inches. Zornow, ss ·. · ... · ·-. 4 2 2 2 0 0 Millei·-Shanley combinations scored Van Grnflan<l, p .•.•. 6 2 I 0 0 0 Alpha; Chi Pai vs, D!l'lt'l, Phi. victories in the doubles. .Jackson, lb ......... 2 2 il 5 tJ 1i Softball Results: April 3D- Frawley, 3b · · · · · · · · · · 4 1 0 0 0 0 Kappa Nu 30, Alpha Phi Delta 1; The freshmen play their next Spagnola, 2 h .. · · .. · · 4 3 0 3 2 0 Alpha Delta PhJ 10, South College m t h Th d f · th Zipkin, e ............ 4 o 2 9 2 o a c on urs ay, acmg · e 1291 Rugby Rd. of FOOD MARKET Varsity Ten Drubs Maroon Stickmen Smith Scores Four Goals 10 to 3 Garnet Victory At Colgate Friday In z-Smltlt, lb ......... 2 1 1 0 1 0 6; Phi Sigma Delta 3, Phi Gamma Mohawk School tennis team on the · z-Lane, c ..........•. 2 0 1 1 1 0 Delta 7; Psi Upsilon 10, Chi Psi ~~n~i~o~n~C;o;u;r;ts;;. ~:;;;;;:;:;;;:;:;;;:;:;;;:;:;;;:;:;;:;;;;;:;;;;~~~~~~~~;;;;;;;;;;;;~~~ x-Bachers, cf ......•. 0 0 0 1 0 0 15; Kappa Sigma 9, Beta Theta ;g~~m~\;~·n.-?b31b . ::: : & g ~ g & 8 Pi 10. May 3-Alpha Delta Phi 8, Totals ............. 42 17 12 27 7 0 Delta Upsilon 10; Theta Delta Cbi Union's varsity lacrosse team registered its third victory of the season Friday when it bea,t the Colgate stickwavers on their home grounds 10 to 3. The Garnet does not play again until it meets the Dartmouth College outfit at Han.- over N. H. this Saturday. ca'ptain Jack Smith was Union's big gun Friday at Colgate accoun~­ ing for four of the Dutchmen s tallies. Hard on his heels was Hal Vandecar with three goals. Doug Blue and Art Lawrence acco·unted for the remaining Garnet points with two and one respectively. At no time was the outcome in any doubt Union scoring libernlly throughout the four periods. ---- Rochester ....... , .•. , 101 301 713-17 Union ................. 000 100 011- 3 Two-base bit-Lane. Three-base hit- Mee 2, Zornow, Stolen base-Mee 2, Myers. Smith. Sacrifice-Robesou. Double play-Brown (unassisted). Left on bases-Rochester 10, Union 3. Base on balls-Off Jones 3, Dennett 7, Has- kell 4, Van Grafland 1, Mee 1. Struck out-By Jones a, Dennett 1, Haslrel! 1, Va.n Grafland 8, Mee 2. Winning pitcher-Van Grafland. Umpires-Con- nelly, Ruslwwskl. 633 State St. Thru to Nott Terrace 4, Kappa Nu 24; Phi Sigma Kappa 4, Lambda Chi .Alpha 8; Delta Phi 9, Psi Upsilon 0. Tennis and Horseshoes Because of the inclement weather the time for the comple- tion of the first rounds in the Spring Tennis and Horsesh<Je tournaments has been extended to Wednesday, May 5. Entrants must arrange their own matches. PHONE 6-3456 MOTHERS' DAY, SUNDAY, MA\Y STH the dearest of all friends, would be happy to receive a box of the fresh 7~t~ SOFTBALL STANDINGS League Standings Through May 1st CANDIES NORTHERN w Lambda Chi A.lph.a 2 Phi Gamma Delta 1 Beta Theta PI , • . . . .. .. . 1 Kappa Sigma • . • . .. .. • .. 1 Phi Sigma Delta ....... 1 EASTERN w Kappa Nu •..•....•..•.. 4 Theta Delta Cl!i 1 Sigma Phi ............. 0 .Alpha Phi Delta . . . . . • . • 0 .Alpha l?hi Delta . . . . . . . 0 Neutrals •..•..•.•......•• 0 L 0 0 1 2 2 L 0 1 1 1 1 2 SOUTHERN w Phi Delta Theta ... ~ ..... 2 Delta Phi ................ 1 Chl Psi ................. 1 Psi. Upsilon .. . .. .. . . .. . .. 1 Phi Sigma Kappa ........ 0 WESTERN w Delta Upsilon ............ 2 Alpha Delta Phi . . . . . . . . . 2 Kappa .Alpha ......... , . 1 South College . . . . • . . . . . . . 0 Theta Nu Epsilon . . . . . . 0 L 0 1 0 3 2 L 0 2 1 1 1 GAZETTE PRESS Printers from you, on this her special day. 4 6 5 S T A T E 5. T .R E E T

Page- Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MAY 4, 1937 Director Adams Reporter Reveals Past of Heidi, Pleased With Cast Newest Member ()( College Family @) Playet•s Well Suited to Give. by GEORGE P. HASKELL I finally Heidi reached. the point Realistic Interpretation of . One~. agam on, ~LH :amp us thr where she wa:; ready to do her mis- mmates of old Unw\ ate cheereu sian in the world. Scotch Comedy by the familiar· sight of Dl'. Char,leo Maxine Stellman to Sing Friday With Schubert Club Skidmore Girls Suggest Some 'Don'ts' For Dates' in Prom Issue of \News\ (Editor's Note: Booause of o1.u· ·own impending junior P1•om, we feel toot tlre tollowing is particu- larly pei'tineil.t. It was milled :from the l':mm ,Jssue of the Skidmore ~--------------------------------- 5. Don't look wry when being cut from your original date; look re· N. Waldr·on, 'bettn known to most At the same time Heidi t•eacheu of us a\ Charlie: but with him now this point in her 'life, Dr·. Waldron one finds a newcomer to our pr·e- ·came to Morristown where after dncts, h·i,:; new companion Heidi, car·eful di.'Hberation it was decrded a lady who in time bids fair to rival ·by the Seeing-Eye people that he the popularity of her master. Mo\L and Heidi would make a fine team. of you know something about H~icli It was then up to Dr. Waldron to from Dr-. Waldron's intr·oduction in do hi,:; part in the moulding of this c·hapel. but there an• a number of happy combination. Long and hard intNesting pht·ases to the rather it was for both ef them, but espe- remar·kable young miss that ha.c cially for·. the man, as the job was not as yet bePn gE'nera.Jly mad<' , new to hrm. But gradually day by known: so thi;; m \'n'\ tt·~ ppcrs ,.. day he wov.i her and won her heart. thP history of He1di. 1 only huJ•\ I lie . found her understanding. 9:nd that in the l'Dle of historian I can. wtllmg·. Often she could. not d!Vme do justice to the eubjcct. what he wanted but wtth .patrent ·News.) · lieved, sigh, and look fondly into , your rescuer'S eyes. That shows your date that you like her fr!end,s, and are ·having a swcH time. \\'i\h ll'ss -than two weeks to go befure the Mountebanks' fir·sl pet·- formanc<' of The Wind and the Rain on May 14, Bl'Uce Adams. di- rector, is much pleased with the pro~.:Tess of his actors. He is con- vinced that he has a cast id<•u.Jly ->uited to give a cr!'ditable of Met'- ton Hodge's eumedy on Scotch >tu· dent life. George Ha1·t '3H, tak<'\' his l'i·rst important part in the mle of Gha!'ies Tl'itton, th<' male lead. He brings a sympathetic pPrsona.Jity to the chai·acter made famous 'by Frank La,wto·n. 1\!rs. Viola Patter- sun, who pluys the leading feminine role of Anne, and Mis>' Joan Dia- mond need no introduction to Mountebanks audiences, These two youn~ ladic\ aee well remem'b<'r·ed for their splendid pPrfor·mance< in Squaring the ('ire II'. ~1any NPw Players John P. Delaney '37, will makt' his fir,;t appearance bl'forc a Union aut.lience in the part of John Wil- liams. As Dr. Duhamel, Hyman En- zer '3B, ic; co·unted upon to tum in his usual admirable characteriza- tion, Mis,; 1\1iriam Johnson, daugh- ter of Dt. Burges Johnson. i:; un- dertaldng her fil'st role as a .Moun- tebank in lh<' difficult comedy character of l.\1r ~- :\!cFie. the Scot- ish landlady. I\h. Adams is much pleaset.l with hez· proficient han- tlling of Scoteh dial<•ct. BPsides unclc>rtaking the task of stagp manag<'r, Hugh H. Sharpe '38, will b<' seen in the part of Mor:..:an. And Richar·d Day '39. who h!lli helped out this year· as a pr·operty man, will come out fi om backstagt• to act in the 1 ole of Roger Cule. George HaskPll '37, who plays Gilbe1t. b finding this rollicking light comedv I'Ol<' a bit of a rPlief after Lis appeamnce in Maxwell Andei·hon·~ h<'avy tt·agedy, '\'Inter- set. HPidi wae born some year:o ago of very fine parente, and after· she had ceased b<'ing a puppy certain at.lju;;tments Wf.'re made to Hetdi l<indness he made her compre'hend. Finally they were ready to leave and Heidi came back with Charlie to her new :home. so that shP could sometime ~;\ive The training had only reallv all her love to a master. About lhis :otarted, fot· now it is up to Heidi' time Heidi was sent to school <tt to gtow acculltomed to our· campus Monistown, and her<> undPr the ta most difficult task, for many of tutelage of the finest Swiss car1.ine her sign posts at·e missingl. How- ••x.pcrts Heidi's cours<' of study was ever in the .short time she has bE>en mo~t carefully :.;uperinten·ded, hr here the team has progressed won- Heidi. after :ohe haLl provc·rJ .·he derfully. All is not done yet as it was not gun-bhy was destir,ed lo will r·equir<? almost a year before b<· u Seeing Eye Dog. Her cvur,,.e that perfection o.f which they are was long and t·igorou:;, and dm·ing capable is t·eached. We at Union ·her sehoul days she leat·ned tu stop can help in bringing about this at ·curbs, ubs!l-uction,, low pa:;;- completion of H<'idi's training, e<age ways, .for cars and all s<:>rts chiefly by not showing her tangibly of impedim<'nta that might ·bring how glad we are to have her in our harm to one who was entrusted to midst and .by letting Dr. Waldron her cat P. In addition she learned show her, as he alone knows how, obedience. HPr teachers wer·e k·ind I what she must learn to do for him. and just, neVH failing to give And so, Heidi. although you wi:l credit when it was due or punish- probably never read this, we wcl- nwnt when it was n£~cessary. So come you to Union. CALENDAR vrednesday 10:00 a. m. Thomas Ralston •40, Daily Assembly, Memorial Chapel. 4:30 p. m.~ ~~Union vs. Colgate, Tenni,;, home. :30 p. m. Union vs. Middle- bury, Gulf, homf'. ti: 00 p. m. Special Dinner·. Dur·- mitory Residents, Hale Hou,e. Th.m-sday Opportunity for Social Work Offered Students Wanted: \One soda.!ly-conscious, mature, 'ready, willing and able' stude.nt with fifty dollars to spend the summer being a friend to man.\ Maxine Stellman, lyric soprano, will be the guest ar·tist at the .Schu- bel't Club concert on Friday eve- ning at Memorial Chapel. The male chorus, augmented by .the members ·of the Troy Vocal Society will also entertain at Friday's concert which will conclude the 39th season of the club. Miss Stellman who has recently become affiliated with the Metro- politan Opera Company will begin her career at that institution very soon after her appearance with. the Schubert Club. Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh will as-· sume hb t·egular pos.i.tion on the podium, James Early will be the accompanist, and John K. Zorian, regular or·ganist for the club will preside at the console. The pmgram will be composed, in a large part, of selections from Bach, Brahm:;, Wagner, Marx. and several other composer's of claasic note. ln previous years it bas been the policy of the Schubert Club to in- troduce as guest ar·tist some young singer who gives .promise of a suc- cessful career, 'but who has not yet r·eached the pinnacle of success; the club is continuing with that pol- icy this year in presenting Miss Stellman to the Schenectady audi- ence. -------0- --- --- Jones Says Loss of Faith Caused Past Depression In ordt>r to whip the play into prop<'t· shape rehearsals are being <ta~ed t•vet·y night. Mr. Adams io doin~ special coaching of the var- ious e·haractPIS during th(~ aftt-'J·- 1 10:00 a. m. ~Byron J. Lewi.,;, Da1ly Assembly, Memo rial Chapel. 4:30 p. m. Union Frosh vs. 1\!o- hawk School, Tennis, home. Union l<'rosh vs. Albany High School. Baseball, home. This is the opportunity being of- fered by the Amel'ican Frie.nds Service Committee to students of Union, Yale, Harvard, Princeton and other· prominent colleges in their effort to alleviate condi- tions in various d·istressed areas throughout the country. Students will spend the summer in \hard physical labor on some worth-while community project which should not otherwise be done.\ Sunday, May 2.-That the loss of faith and courage was in part re- sponsible for the recent depression was pointed out by Dr. Rufus M. Jones of Haverford Colleg-e in his sermon this morning in Sunday Chapel noon. ~ 0 .. Sigma Xi Hears Willett of M. I. T. •Continued from Page H many of the pt·ovcl bs were f'ffec- tive fm· \.normal conditions in the districts wherein the pr owt bs orig- inated.\ For (~xarnp1e in a region whPI ein there are preva.iling west!'rly wind•. \re.d at nig-ht is thf' sailor's· delight\ means a C'lrar day is ahead. fo-r the clear weather to thP west permits the ~un to color the Pa.•terlv clouds red. On .th\ other hand, said Pro- fessor \\'illett, a strong wind from the southPast might be pushin.g the clouds in westerly direction and produce same \red effect\ but give a storm within twenty-four hours. Ring- about the moon is definitely a sign of storm coming, he said. But he cautioned against trans- plan ling W<•ather foreca\ting prov- erb~ frnrn. on~ n\gion to another. The U. S. Weather Bur<'au keep\ careful record of the \batting aver- age\ of the official forecaster·s. Various rating l'ystems are us<'d, ranging from the \strict\ to those which allow !attitude in correlation of fot f'castPd data and actual re- sults. Nevertheless, by any systPm, he said the govPrnment experts are generall~· about 80 per cent correct predicting weather in the eastern part of the country, and about 96 pe.r ce.nt correct in their prognosti- cation of weather in California. If as much. rainfall as one-one hundredth of an inch of rain falls in area for which \fair\ hal' been predicted, the forecaste'l' is rated as having \PrTed in his analysiH. Six Outi11g Club Memb1•rs At Sl.:idmon! Supper Meet Monday, May 3. Six membe1s of the Union Ontine; Club WPre the supper guests of the Skidmore Out- ing Club at their cabin. \Skldmor· nndac,\ located at Wilton, NPW York. Supper was coollt>d ,by the ~kidn!OI'<' 1!tnup and wn\ followt>d by a tour of inspect ion of thf' moun- tain trails of Mt. MacGregor. Union ~tudentR who WPre guPsts at the supper were: Bill Rwanson, Jack Bergstrom, Jetry Wri.ght, Frank Laurf'nski. Walt Williams ant.l Darwin Fri.ss. Fred Wyatt, club advisor, also made the trip. The Outing Club will hold Its an- nual banquet tonight at 6:30 at Hale House. At .this tlmP, offic<'rs for the coming year will be elected and plans for th<' future will be made. Action will be taken on the Tuckerman Plaque to be erected by the Union Outing Club .. permis- sion for the erection for such a plaque had been received from the National Fot·t·esters Association. 6.00 p. m. Phi Beta Ka.ppa Initiation Dinner, Hale H~.use. Friday 10:00 a. m.- Dr. A. A Allen, Conwil Universitr, Daily A..'- ~embly, Memorial Chapel. 4 .uu p. m. ~Executive Meeting, Graduate Council. 4.30 p. m. Union vs, Syracuse, Baseball, home. li.OO p. m. Schubert Club Con- c:t·rt, Memorial Chapel. Freshman Camp Corum it lee Meeting, Old Chapel. ~BWS BULLETI~S l'LACEYII.;;\•l'T BUREAU Tho· Plac<'nl<'nt Bur·eau has re- ceived a communication from the Power Laundt·y Cooperative Course of the Ohio Mechanics Institute in Cincinnati. The institute is looking for students who have completed a lrberal arts c<>ur·se und have a thor- ough background in economics and chemi~try to take a special nine months cour><e which will begin next Septembel'. The laundry indus- try is <'Xpanding and the institute repol't;; that thPr·e is wor·lt for young men with the rig-ht technical training. Far further· particulars call at the Placement BUt·ea_u. Dr. I. L. F'urnas of the We,\tern Reserve Univrr•ity School of Den- tistry and Medicine will visit the campus on Monday, ~lay 17. Inter- views may be ar1·anc:rr! thruugh the Placement Bureau. C!Lmp Rt>union Th,. ~'re•hmPn camp reunion banquet will be in Hale Huu\'e on F.riday <'vening, May i. at ·f<even o'clock. All members of las.t year's staff a.nd those freshmen who at- tPnded C'amp are 1·eq ue:sted t(} be present. The dinner· is sixty-fivf\ cents. Freshmen may use t hei 1 meal tickets. Coats and Sweate1·s All studen te dining in Hale House are requested to wear coa to or sweaters at a.Jl meals. AMERICAN A1 LAUNDRY The M06t Perfoot Lau:nd.ry Work In the C&pitol District Phone 4.-8166 1080 Barret-t st. Such a project is Fayette County Coal Fields endeavor, operating in the soft coal areas of Pen.nsyl- vania: at Fayetteville, a water sys- tem was laid a.nd a new commun- ity wa.s developed for displaced miners. Part of each day is spent in physical labor and the remainder is spent in study and discussion of industrial and economic problems. The summer season will run. from June 25 to August 27. Camps will be situated at Fayette County, Hill- house, Mass., Philadelphia, Pa., and the Ten.nessee Valley a.nd Quaker Bridge, New York. Stud~nts inter- ested in making application should see Fredet·ick Wyatt at thf' Admin- istration Building. ----o--~-- Agostini Leaves Hospital Francis Agostini '38, injured in an automobile accident April 19, was discharged from the Ellis Hos- pital today, He is returning to his home in BPnnington, Vt. His con- dition is reported ru; very good. Agostini was injured in an acci- dent on the Albany Road in which three other Union students were in- volved. The others were Lloyd Wa- ters '38, La Rue Buchanan '40, and Schuyler Otvis '40. Watets and Buchanan have resumed their stud- ies; Orvis, who sustained a broken leg, is at his home in Westport, ConnPcticut. \It is largely because we never expect anything nor take advan- tage of our everyday existence,\ said Dr. Jones, \that we remain just averag.e people, We can never have great music, great art, great fiction., great statesmanshlp until we breed a generation of believers in God and a generation that has a great abiding faith in itself.\ Dr. Jones then offered a new in- terpr·etation of faith to .accomplish these e.nds. \All we need is cour- age, a fire, a zest, to make the justifiable expectation and the soul's invincible surmise. With coUt-age in our beliefs, serenity and adventure in our faith, we can have the expectation t ha·t is justifiable, we can make the surmise that is invincible.\ ----0---~ Mavor's Bo()k Is Popular According to indications Dr. James W. Mavor\s book, \General Biology,\ is rapi·dly becoming one of the most popular textbooks in this field now in use. It recently entered its third large printing and the publishers announce that it has been ordered by schools and col- leges in over twenty different states. Among the more than fifty col- leges which use it are: Stanford, Loyola, Notre Dame, Cornf'll. Car- negie Institute of Technology, New York State Teachers College, L(}ng Island University, the University of Houston and Union College. CLOVERLAND CREAMERY FOR PROMPT SERVICE PHONE 2·4265 919 STATE ST. GUERRA PHARMACY 600 Union St., cor. Barrett SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING COMPANY ENGRAVERS for THE CONCORDIENSIS 147 JAY STREET TELEPHONE 4•9002 Because the negative appro!Lch always seems stronger and because we wish to have this noticed by ·those few selected, and honored· seuls, \our date:;;\ for Prom, we feel it our duty to stress herein a few important \don'ts\ to be followed or not, at their discretion. First, if you have thoroughly thrilled your da.te by not acce·pting her invitation until the day bef<lre Prom, and then merely wired, you have an edge on your feHows_ You can charge right into this list of \don'ts\ without a qualm. 6. Don't go any place after the dance for food and so forth, take· her right home, a.nd stand comfort- ably in. the hall talking. to Mr. Godc frey. 7. Don't go to bed after the dance so as to be fr-esh and entertaining in the morning; join the boys at . the Worden, get plastered, and show up at aoon, bleary-eyed aud pepless. 8. Don't show any interest in the picnic Sunday, after all the girls just scra;ped it together on the s.pur .of the moment. Hem and haw, and 1. Don't arrive until nine P. M. keep talking about all the work you Friday, and then .be sure you left at school, and how long it haven't shaved. Shaving a.nd dress- takes to get back. If she insists, ing wm tak.e up time until it is too go, but complain about sitting on late for supper, and half the dance the ground, look 'bore.d, and don!t will' be over when you arrive_ indulge in the rough outdoor sports. 2. Don't send flowers, you won't 9. Don't stay :for supper. Leave have time anyhow and they only immediately after arriving back at get mashed in the fray. the dorm, shake her hand noncha- 3. Don't bring your car, save gas, lantly and say, \Well so long ba.be, arrive in a coupe with a friend, so be seeing you some time,\ and that you can have the unusual ex- stroH calmly out, perience of pushing in, and drag- 10. Last but not least, don't write ging omt, your date from the rum- her a dull old thank-you,note, skip -ble seat. the whole thing. She'll know you 4. Don't arrive sober. On being had a good time, so why bother? greeted by the reception committee (Girls, if they should by any it is screamingly funny te hiccough chance follow any of this advice, in the chaperones' faces, and per- relax and just remember, \Men are haps stagger a bit. 1 not Gods.\) Week's Best Editorial ARE PEACE WORKS TOO ZEALOUS? The greatest and, at the same time, the most common crusade is that of peace. Within the past fif- teen year's, peace action groups of all .,hades and' purposes have come into existence-some to live a few short months, others to gain strength with the passage of years. Millions of words have ·been writ- ten and published and delivered from the public ,platform concern- ing the virtue of peace a.nd the hell- ishness of war. It has ,become a part of the make-up of the .people of this country. In Europe, it has gone one step further and become a living fear of war. R>ut is this continual har·ping on the subject of peace a good thing? Is peace not now rapidly becoming an outworn phrase because [}f con- tinued repetition? Has the Ameri- can public reached the saturation point in so far as peace Is con- cerned? Are they not taking the idea of peace as they talte their morning breakfast, something that is necessary but over which they spend very little time? Is not this growth in the realization of the necessity of peace and, at the same time, the even g-reater growth in its casual acceptance, as great a worry for the ,peace actioners to consider as the cause for which they are campaigning? Is not the time for the greatest activity of peace groups when the governments of the world start pouring out tons on tons of war propaganda? How will the .peace groups face the emotional appeal which governments make to their people when they accuse enemies of outrageous lies, fling patriotism and Jove of soil in the faces of their citizens? How will they counteract the :blaring bands, the march of sturdy young feet and the flash of uniform and battle flag? Wi 11 their mental appeal over·come those strong emotional ones? Would it not ·be better for the peace groups to consolidate the po- sitions they now hold, ex:pand and prepare their organization for the actual advent of war, rather than continue their surface appeals to the masses? Would it not be .better for them to seek other and mor·e potent methods to combat actively the virulent national and interna- tional war propaganda? Are not peace groups smothering with their own zeal and verbosity the ver'Y thing they al'e attempting to cul- tivate? -The Lafayette. -0~ Hamilton to Participate In Law Round Table Here Government students from Ham- ilton College will visit the campus this week-end to participate in roundtable discussions with stu- dents from the constitutional law classes of Dr. Douglas Campbell. Recent decisions of the snpt·eme court, including the Guffey coal act and the Wagner labor relations act will form the basis of the discus- sions. Among the Union students who will read papers and participate in the meetings are Marvin Katz, It·v· ing Brownstein, James McKenzie, and John Potocki, of the class of '37, and Charles Motisher, John Ce- bula, and Jo9eph Cafarella of the class of '38. The Hamilton representatives are as yet unannounced. The first dis- cussion will take place on Friday evening, May 7, and others will take place during the day on Saturday. Interuua in Schtnectaay Inttrtsttd in UNION MAURICE B. GR>4UBART Tht Jay Strut Jeweler 166 JAY STREET Watch and Jewelry Repairing a Specialty P ARK.ER PENS FIFTH AvE. Ar FoRTY-SIXTH Sr., NEW YoRK MR. MARTIN ROSES EXHIBITING AT STUDENTS ACTIVITIES OFFICE WASHBURN HALL UNION COLLEGE Schenectady, N. Y. FRIDAY, MAY 7 CLOTHES -HATS -HABERDASHERY- SHOES ·- ·- v. s r T :1'1~ u SiJ v def clal end Wit! wa, sen icie: lege ~ Ste> H. are inst for T: that has COlli te~ Ste' Eve bert Key in t end.< con! Al forn ancE pies assi: Tl oped las : requ pDli< ium matE statE will year Ac achi, less, polic $100. dend go wish In fiHee lege sana rem~ Th In 19 sugg last half- cess. Stew ent ~nee from e·st. class the < Pro dorsE the , leges for i Te11 Ele Te1 their 1937-1 will I futur their night Th1 a.re: Clti 1 G-eor1 I..awr l-Iowt pa, 'I rna, Chari Jame G-eoq Marv ThE not a A.lpht Pelta C·bi . !Jpsn.

t e d p e, to er re r ry te. te in aw act act in of Ce- the are dis- day ·- • Seniors Concordy Hit At Tax Hearing trnsts Start Insurance Drive Vol. LX., No. 5·1 ------··-. UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, 1\IAY 7, 1937 SeniorsSubscribe ·Gym To Insurance. P.· Ian Of TEd ell :U'll : o · n ow o . ege Deeorations To Be in ;Ocean Liner for the Motif Court Decisions Prom To Be Discussed Today at Seminar ®----~------------------------- 'Hope to Expand Undergrad- uate Activities by Increased Endowment The Aluooni: Gymnasium which works on the Philip Morris pro- has been tr·aasforrned into count- gram. ·l~ss oticntut :gardens and south sea ·island ,ballt·oo;rns- .for past Junior Russ Mot·gan and his orchestra Proms, will b-e garbed in slightly whose name is known from Mi- Hamilton and Union Students Beg·in Roundtable Debate On Present Problems Fox Approves Idea , different dr~ss .for the 193'1 Frome ami's Biltmore to New York's Pnade next :Friday night, French Casino and whose music 'has been heat·d over the continent For this time l<'ather Neptune 'has also made a name for himself will rule OVEr the Gym which will Papers to He Read . Similar Plans in Operation Now at Other Colleges Are Huccessful through the orchestra's Brunswick take the fot-m of a ship. The walls· 1 ,ecordings and its Paramount will be a. ligh\t sea-blue, trimmed, movie shorts. According to 'Sta.tis- with silver which will reflect the . tics, Morgan's recordings are best. playing lighf:s :l'rom the ceiling. En- se·llers and his Paramount movies ::losing each :b<Ooth will be regular rank high as musical short sub- 3hip railing; de~orated with an- jects. Each Man to Giv:e Views 011 Legality of Recent Court Decrees Wednesday, May 5.-The fit·s.t · definite action on the part of the class of 1937 to help increase the endowment fund of Union College within the next ten or fifteen years was taken this week when five seniors toolt out life insurance pol- icie:l which will make Union Col- lege the recipient of $500 by 1952. chms, and I ife~pl'eset·vers. Prom night, the dancers may Russ M:organ and his orchestra sc>e Russ as a four star performer. will occupr a conspicuous place on 'Not only docs he handle the baton shipboard on a special stand just with polished skill, but he has a in front <>f a model cabin. Thet·e great tenor voice, is an ace trom- ..vill be a gangplank entrance for bonist, and an excellent pianist. \Prom-Goe1.s\ <Into· the ship. Over- Many times, Russ forsakes the ba- 1-Jpad countless pennant\ will hang ton for a trombone solo· or a smart :md capstans an.d masts will be chorus on the piano. ,Jlaced in V!3.l·ious .places. The cou- 'I'he Prom Committee has an- pies will dance in .this maritime at- nouneed that the sale of tickets .nosphcrr. has gone beyond their expectations Students in constitutional law at. Hamilton and Union will begin to- night a two-day series of roun.d- table discussions of five recent cases reviewed by the United States Supt erne Court which deal with the scope of national powers under the Constitution. William G. Forman, G. Curtis Stewart, Richard C. Snyd<'r, Jamm; H. Riggs and Norman R. Stewart are the seniors who have taken out insurance with a special pr·ovi;,ion for Union College. Taking cognizancE> of thP fact that the limited Union endowment has prevented the expansion of th(• college an undergraduate commit- te~ composed of Snyder, Norman Stewart, Curtis Stewart, Robert D. Everest, G. Clark Cummings, Vi- bert 0. Fryer and Richard J. Key.es are conducting the campaign in the senior class to increase the end.owment fund by a general class contribution. As one of the most commot'l forms of investment the life insur- ance plan is considered the sim- plest formula for personal financial assistance to the college. How the Plan WorliS The plan, which has been devel- oped by Henry P. Gulnac '34, Doug- las Smith '34, and C. Stewart '37, requires that an investor take out a policy of at least $1,000. The prem- ium of yearly pyaml'nt is approxi- mately $18. A clause in the policy states that the dividends or interest will be allowed to accumulate each year until a sum of $100 is reached. Accordingly, this sum will be achieved within fifteen years or less, depending upon the size of ~he policy. Union College will recetve $100. The remaining accrued divi- dends and cash value of policy will go to the holder whenever he wishes to cash in. In the event of death before the fiHeen-year pE>riod is up, Union Col· lege will receive $100, and the per· sonal beneficiaries will receive the remaining $900. The insurance plan was projected in 19~4 by Gulnac and Smith at th.e suggestion of an alumnus. Until last fall the plan had met with half-hearted approval and little suc- c.ess. Then Snyder and Norman Stewart, co-chairmen of the pres\ ent committe.e, toolt up the plan once more and with assistance from Curtis Stewart revived inter- e-st. Elach member of the senior class is now being canvassed by the committee. President Fox has already en- dorsed the plan as proposed by the senior class. Several other col- leges have adopted similar methods for increasing their E>ndowments. ---01---- Ten Union Fraternities Elect Heads fol' New Te1·m Ten Union fraternities have held their el,ections for new heads. :or 1937-38. The remaining fratermltes will hold their electio.n in the near future. Many of the chapters held their last meetings of the year last night, The newly elPcted chapter he_ads are: Beta Theta Pi, Grant. Sm1th.; ·Chi Psi, Eldson Draper; Delta Pht, George Doyle; Kappa Alpha, Art Lawrence· Phi Gamma Delta, 1-foward S~nds, Jr.; Phi Sigma KB;P· pa, Thomas Blaisdell; Kappa St~­ rna, Carl Trahman; Sigma Ph~, Charles Freihofer; Theta Delta Chi, James Morgan; Theta Nu Epstlon, George Scott; Phi Sigma Delta, Marvin Dwore. . at this early date. On Monday, the 1'1•om 1£J I~· m. to 3. a. m. price goes up from $6.00 to $7.00. \Music in t·h\0 Morgan Manner\ All those who expect to attend the -wor·ds whi<!h describe a vibrant 1937 Promenade are asked to pur- new style <If ·dance music-will chase their ticltets now. All mem- identify th~ rntLsi~ of Russ Morgan, hers of the Prom Committee are who is now f~ :afured with his or- offering them for sale. Tickets are chcstra twice vveekly on the coast- also on sal at the Student Activi- to-eoast NBC and CBS radio net- tie's Office. Nine F. raternities[seniors T~ke.to Open Ent S C t t For Pwmc on }llne 10 er ~llg on es Takine: to the great out-of- Psi Upl'liltHt t~ Defend Song Cup in A.nl'lual Spring Niglt1 Cont~Jetition Nine frate;rni ties will participate In the an1:1ual: Spr.ing Night inter- fl·atet'nity song contest which will be heLd May- 1:E at 7:15 o'clock in Jacltsons Ca:rdems., under the aus- pices of the 'Fe l'lace Council. Edgar L. Moulton Jr. '37, will play the chltl::les In the college cha- pel from 7:0() t.o '7:30 o'clock. The piOgt\am \\'Ill {>fli-cially open with lhe enHre gnuap singing \By the light of the 1\le»on,\ closing with a chorus of •\J'Fte Al:rna Mater.\ According to· f:he rules of the con- test, at lea.st fif'ty per cent of each house, must be represented. Elach house must slag one song of its own choic€. 'l'l:t:e judges will then eliminate v.ll b~E.t three of the con- testants a:nd tn,e survivors will be asked t~ sii1g e-ilh.er \The Terrae€' Song.\ \The Dutchman,\ \Come Now to th~ Car:npus,\ or \It's Unl ion's Game.\ Dr. Elmer A. 'Pidrnarsh, director of music, Prof~ssor Warren C. Tay- lor, .organj~l f~r Df'l,..ily fl.ssPmbly, and Pi·ofessor Cha.rle~ T. Male, di- rector of th..e Band., will act at judges at 'the cCJutest. Members of doors with the arrival of spring and blue, sunny sides, the sen- iors will hold their class picnic on Thursday, June 10, at the Endries Clubhouse on the Sara- toga road. Franklin Converse heads the committee making arrangements for one of 1937's lnst flings. Beer and a light l uneh will be served on the pic- nic. The following day, Friday, June 11, will be the annual senior class day. It will be celebrated in the traditional manner with the passing of the jug, smolting of .the pipe, planting of the ivy, reading of the class poem, sing- ing, etc, This will be the last meeting of the senior class be- fore Commenceme·nt and the beginning of Life. l\lountebanks Play Accents Dialects \Wind and the Rain\ Pt·e· sented Next Friday Nig·ht By Students the Terrace <:o:t.tncil will serve as Hoot Mon! The accents are fly- ush.ers ing thick and fast at the Mounte· Th~ nine. Era ier-nity contestants banks Theatre these nights. En· will be Phi G!t.mr:na Delta, Delta dowed with a characteristically The group, constituting students of Professor Douglas W. Campbell and Professor James Q. Denley, Jr .. of Hamilton, will discuss the N. R. A., Railr·oad Retirement Act.. A. A. A., Guffey Coal Act, and Wagner Labor Relations Act LIP- cis-ions of the Supreme Com·t. To Read PapPI'S The two groups of students will dine together in Hale House this evening and then will assemble in; Silliman Hall to hear three papers: read, each dealing with one of the Supreme Court cases. Each paper: will be subjected to criticism .by: the group. The papers will attempt' to show what general constitutional principles were applied by the Su- preme Court in each case. Tomorrow morning, the group · will again meet to discuss papers Alumni Medals A warded written on the Guffey Coal Act de-. C • 1 Th\ W cis ion and the Labor Relations Act, :By OUUCI IS eekend decision. Union will present the thesis that the Guffey decision is the best \dissent\ for t·he Wagner case, in which !abO!' relations were declared interstate commerce. To Discuss Constitution Tonig,ht two Union students will read papers, one on the inva}.ida- tion of the N. R. A, and the other on the invalidation of the railway pensions act. A HamiJto,n repre- sentative will present an analysi~ of the invalidation of the A. A. A. Following the reading of the papers, discussion will branch out into broader problems of govern- ment under the Constitution. Among the Union students who will read papers and participate in the meetings, Marvin Katz, Irving Brownstein, James McKenzie, and John Potocki, of the senior class, and Char·les Motisher,, John Cebu- ala, and Joseph Caht'€lla of the junior class. The annual Spring Meeting of the Graduate Council will take place this wc.ek-end, starting this afternoon at 4:30. Many alumni are expected back for the program of nJeetings and campus entertain- ment which has been arranged. The most important business will be the awarding of the thret' rnedals to the alumni who have done outstanding service to Union College. At the Fall Meeting of the council on October 17, 1936, it was decided to award no mm·e than three medals in one year to alumni who have rend·ered meritorious service in promoting the welfare of the college. The executive committee of the council will meet tomorrow morn- ing at 10:20 o'clock in the Trophy Room of the Gymnasium. After the Graduate Council luncheon the alumni will probably attend the various athletic conte-sts talting ,place on the campus. Phi, Delta Upsll.o<ln. Psi Upsilon, AI- Elnglish play which relies princi- _____ ~---------------------- pha Delta Phi, Eappa Sigma, Kap- pally on atmosphere and a feeling By LAWRENCE PELLE'l'TIER pa Alpha, <!ll i PSI. and Phi Sigma ·for the unique English humor, the If that ubiquitous \S\ in S. any of you care to determine how Sink or Swim, S. Ralph Must Face Wet, Wet Waves Bt3fore Graduation Mountebanks have a hard job be· Ralph ·CohPn doesn't mean \swim rnuch energy Cohen will expend in Kt~·~·e fr:ate- 11 dties have two legs fore them in the production of Ralph is going to be sunk We have •thrashing his 210 lbs. <his· figures) already on thee up that is being do- '\The Wind and the Rain\ by next the information from unimpeach- in this excursion o.f the pool, the nated by t hB music departme.nt to Friday night. able sources. L'affai J'S Cohen has formula is: the flrst fraleHLity- to win the con- Besides the thick brogue of the taken the campus by storm, so the · v!l p test three times_ They are Psi Up- house-keeper, Mrs. MacFie, the Concordy spared no efforts in un- __ + _ + z = silon, Dela :UJJsLlon:, and Kappa AI- ·slight French accent of Dr. Du- covering the salient details of this Zg W V!l p hamel, the typical English phrase· colossal test. P~~ case of bn•d vvrather the co~- ology of Charles Tl'itton and the First we visited the .Administra- We prefer our own much less test will be 'h el<l. on May 20 and m slightly exaggerated man net' of tion Building. There we learned complicated equation. --+-+z 2g w case of raiD ()on ;that night, the date speech of the foppish Roger Cole. that the swimming test is a re- C'flhen + 10 yd,, of H,,O = Diploma wt'll be ailnou :rlced latet·. the cast has only to finish off the · d t f th th t We then dect'ded th-at 1't was· ht'gh -·---o----- ·,production within the short space. qurre par 0 e gym course, a failure to pass the swimming test time to corner that cherubic earn- Local Alti!mni Will Hold of one week. means that the gym course is in- pus celebrity, s. R. Cohen himself. • N t W k Fluent RE>hem·sals complete, and no one is eligible for ,We discovered him up in the Con- Final Moeellllg\ ex ee Rehearsals on \The Wind and a diploma Who has not completed cordy office with a moist eye, rem- A capacity gNlUJJ of alumni are cxpecte.d to attend the final mon.thly rnee~ln~ of the Sc~en;ec­ tady County &lur:nn i Assocratton Monday night. In ,Hale House. Sev- eral student :and faculty members will talk on subjects of college in- terest thq Rain,\ which began a little his gym course. There are no al- 'inlscing over ye days of yore, when over a week ago, will probably be ternatives offered for this aquatic said territory was his domain. Aft- the shortest ever held by the ordeal so far as the Administra- et· reassuring him that we had no Mountebanks for a full-length pro- tion Building is concerned. Either cigarettes, we broached the subject ductlon. Because of the compara- rotund Ralph splashes his weary in question. Cohen seems to have tive simplicity of the set, the nat· way down the pool or Commence- taken a.n attitude of indifference uralness, in most parts, of th_e ment Day will find him sans di- about the whole affair. He is un- speech and action, and t.te slmph- ploma. decided as to his prowess. as a city of the plot, Bruce Adams, di- Thence we pt·oeeeded to the En- ,natator, having passed some man- rectiug the show, is confident that. gineering Building, where we ner of swimming test (he probably 'the production will be ready for a trapped Dr. Abbett, professor of had his feet on the bottom) in the smooth performance by the time hydraulics, and asked him for the yet last past, but he fears that the last dress rehearsal is over. scientific angle of this underta•k- sorne of his erstwhile prowess has Tne play will be put on fot· ing. :Professor Abbett started to ex- left him. The following fraternities have not as yet elected new pz·esidents.: Alpha Phi Delta, Alpha Delta Pht, ·Delta Chi, Delta Upsilon, Lambd>: C'hi Alpha, Phi Delta. Theta, Pst lTpsilon, and Sigma Ch1. Thi~ sess ioa Is e:xpected to rival the t·WO prev:iotEs :meetings, which attracted a recorcl number of alumni 'l'he cla.sses from 1929 to 1935 win be in full charge of the meeting. Two CJtnet· divisions of classes since 1:875 ha':e been in charge of pre -vl~>us se.ss10n:=;. , . Reservations· :fot· the .dmnel 10 Hale House Mor~day night will be limited to the fi.a'st 125 alumni, but ·others who wislt ·1<>. may talte p~rt in .the progra.:rn following the dm• ner, Union College on the night of the plain that for a streamlined body When we discussed the matter of :Pmm, May 14, and will continue on. -we stopped him there-imagine, tmining, and suggested that the Saturday and Monday nights. A Cohen streamlined. We were awed ·exercise, that might prove most special performance of the play to 'learn that such a simple thing beneficial, would be ceasing to will be given Thursday night, May brought into play such considera- lean across the table for a second 13, In a preview before the Smith tioris as dynamic resista.nce, turbu- helping, a tome was leveled· at our College Alumni Association fol' the,Jent flow, skin friction, and se¥erai' 'head, and we were led to believe benefit of Its scholarship fund. other forms fully as technical. If 'that the interview was over. PRICE FIVE CENTS Kreusi '37 Leads Attack On Business Policies of 1'lte Concordiensis Outing Club Asl\s Raise Glee Oub Requests Funds For Annual Banquet, But Is !Refused Wednesday, May 5.-The value of The Concordicnsis as a student publication, and the question of what happens to $180 profit .from an extr-a concert given by a group from the Glee Club were the two points most hotly discussed at a hearing held by the Student Tax Committee in Old Chapel tonight. About thit·ty men were present to inquire as to the committee's func- tionings and to discuss allotments for various activities, Whether or not to give the Glee Club money to hold a banquet pro- voked the most discussion from the g,roup with the Tax Committee standing firm on it's original de cision not to grant the request, The group demanding the money based its pleas on the $180 profit which a few of the men in the Glee Club made when they pre- sented the M·ikado as an extra con cert. They held that this was not an activity of the Gle.e Club since it was prepared and planned for only by a small group, n·ot the club as a whole. They ask only for a return of $36 of this money to pay for a banquet for the Glee Club. Club Demands Dinner The Tax Committee, however, maintained. that since the concert was given under the heading of the \Union College Glee Club with the Skidmore Glee Club\; and the manager ·of the Glee Club arranged the concert and turned the profits over to the Tax, Committee; and college buildings were used with out charge in which to give the Schenectady performance, it was an activity of the Glee Club. This being the case the Tax Committee has to follow its laws which rule that no activity shall be given money from the tax fund to pay for banquets. Another group of four men, led by John Kruesi '37, led the attack on the value of The Concordiensis Hitting first its business adminis !ration and. then jumping to its editorial policy and general make up, the gist of their argument seemed to be, although vague, that three. dollars a year fot· the sixty odd issues is too high. Professor Bennett disproved their principal objections a~ to cost when he s-howed that the actual appro- priation from the tax fund had been greatly lowered during the past few years and assured the group that the standing of the newspapeor is very high and has increased. during the past several years, There were also several other suggestions made. It was pointed out that the Glee Club does not give any concert on the cainipus for the college alone and that such a concert would be very beneficial. The value of the de.bating team, in relation to the appropriation it re- ceives w:as taken up but its pres- tige and the publicity it gives the college proved in its favor. There was also a move asking for more funds for the Outing Club. This de- mand was based on the large num- ber of students who are active in the Outing Club. -----10--- Langmuir Sees Orientals Nearing Our Standal'ds Tuesday, May 4. -· Dr. Irving LanO'muir, Honorary Fellow in the Physical Sciences, today told stu- dents in dally assembly that the Japanese and Chinese races are fully the equals of the peoples of +.he Westet'tl world, despite differ- ences in tradition, customs and thought. In technical development, too the Oriental nations are rapidly d~·aw­ ing abt•east of our acconipUsh- ments. As for city life, Dr, Lang- muir added that Osalta, Japan ~eemed more American in activity than any American city he knows.

Page Two <lLllttfJl .. . ' lfltStS \II Causa Persa Parole Assai\ FOUNDED 1877 !Cl36 Member !937 t::\ssociated Cofte6iate Press, Distributors of CoRe6iate DiOOsf REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL. AUIIEtUISING OY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Pt~blishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK. N.Y. CHICAGO • BOSTON • SAN FRANCISCO Los ANGEL.ES • PORTLAND - SEATTLE The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdll,ys and Fri- da>·s throughout the college year, except dur- ing Christmas and Spring recesses. Subscription price Five cents a copy; $300 a year; delivered anywhere In the United States. Editorial Rooms, Sillimo.n Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Senim lloard Hyman A. Enzer ................ Editor-in-Chief 11 S. !:l. South Cu!l.,gt>-G-~17~> Julius J. Bundgus .............. Editoi'ial Board 2 S. S. South Cullt:'ge--6-~~~~~ Robert H. Ferguson ........... Editorial Board P:;i l:tJ~i1uu-4·h7tu Henry D. Hartmann ........... Editorial Boa1d 30 Union AVt:.--1-~IG~ Carl R. Trahman.,., .......... Editorial Board Kn.pt•a SJgllla-l-83:.!5 James W. Righter ........... Business Manager JJdta U ptiilon House-4-7922 Alfred R. Seigle .. , ...... Circulation Manager Kappa :Su-4·7331 Junior Board ASSOCIATE EDITORS Herbert 0. FoK Robert A. Saaf Frederic!< W. Hequembourg Jerome Smith H. Wyman Hitchcock David G. Taft David B. Miller Robel t C. Walter, Jr. Edward C. Retartyk Sophomore Board As:sistant Editors C. Russell Deyo, Christopher M. Fahy, Rupe1t L. Gilmore, William G, GOimley, Albert H. Halavin, Richard S. Ha1rison, George L. Peel{, Lawrence V. Pellettier. Jr., Thomas H. Ral- ston, Townsend J. Rifenbar~·. Juhn J. SteidlE~ M. Gale Hoffman. Issue Editors F1·ed!'ick llequembourg- Assistants JPmme ~mith W. llitchcocl< D. Taft A. llalavin (;.Peck Friday, May 7, l!J37 WHY THE CONCORDIEN:-;I:-;? The college newspaper functions under many disadvantages, its value as u medium <Jf distributing \hot lle\vs\ is nil. Yet Ill every colleg·e it is one of the mo::;t important student activities. Why'? Being· pt·agmntic, we believe the campus ne\\'spapet· \\\ould not flourish unl{'ss it had definite n~lue. Because of its very nature, the college journal necessarily suffers when compared to a regular newspaper. News on a college campus is rarely sensational and lacks the appeal of the world news carr.ied in conmwl·- cial newspapet·s. Furthet·, the C<lmpus i~ m1 integrated social unit ih which i nfommtion travels quickly. Hence the news in a semi- weekly paper, such as The Concordiensis, is usually stale. What useful function, then, can a colleg-e newspaper serve if it has these disadvan- tag-es to cope \Vith '? Fii·st, it can serve as a newspap.e!' -~ __ !;_roviding- complete tmd accm·- ate accounts of campus events. It provides a pet·manent record of the ewnts llf the col- lege year. It reports all the <tctivities taking place on the campus such as meetings, ath- letic meets, lectures, plays, etc. While the city newspapers do report colleg-e events, they report only a fraction of those wh icb the colleg-e newspape1· does. Equally as important as its function as a news organ is the function of the college newspapet· as an open forum fo1· the discus- sion of college problems. Through its editor- ial columns it may point out faults in the col- lege and offer remedies for th.eir conection. Its individually written columns and its \let- ters to the editor\ :provide readers with the viewpoints of many individuals. The paper also seeks to obtain and publish the opinions of campus leaders and the rank and file of the student body on important and contro- THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRlnAY, :11AY 7, 1937 versial issues. In thus trying to shed 1Ig·ht JUST IN JEST on the ir11portant problems in campus life, ~.· •. ·.1·.· the colleg-e :paper is fu1·nishing a consbuctive social se1--vke to the college and student body. l.b======================;;;;;;;;;!l CINE~ A By JOHN B. DOWLING The ·Colleg-e newspawer furnishes to the. Well, h-ere we are again. Norman s<\ems that the beer for the party lUng of Gamblers <Twentieth n~embers b·f its staff excellent experience in has \passed ·out\. And your Uncle was delivered on the campus early CentUty; Proc~or's) rates as· routine Willy ha.s nturned. We're son·y in the afternoon Cohen and entertainment srightly above the jom11alism and writing. lt provides them about all \he t-rouble with the <>x- Bundgus lodged it in the Mountc- .usual level of Cla~>S B pictures. · · editor. It ·was all our fault. We banks for \SAFE KEEPING\ . . .. Featuring Claire Trevor, Uoyd ~]so Wlth an opportumty to become acqUtlint- didn't treat Norman very well. we three Mountebankers--and thirsty Noland and Akim Ramiroff, the ed with faculty meiHbers and a wide CI'()SS- were one ·of those who kequently -as all Mountebankers are-werit story centers about the activities called up.on .Jiim early in the morn- into the theatre a:t four o'clock of the slot-machine rackets. ~ection nf the studeHt body. The:ve aee .::tlso ing and· Jlrevented him fmm sleep- .. , spied the beer . , . tapprd the Mi~s Trevor; is a night club enter- chances to interview celebl'ities who nilay ing. He •didn't like that. Too, we qHarter ... when they left at seven tainer, whese friend, Betty Burgess used to maim fun of his sentence o'clock less than half of the keg re- gets killed when she inadvertently vi::; it the co\ilege. To the members of its husi- st1 ucture. He was really sensi- ma-ined!!! the party was a gets mixed up with the racket ·~\f · 1 d !1' e ab\''t l1is senten·ces was Nor ~·ccess however . Johnson got headed by Tamiroff. Noland, as a ness sttLfL the nape!' lu o·rds UJHIVR e · ex- · v \~ • · - ~~ ' P man. What really- brought things his revenge and COHEN EARLY reporter, whom she beft·i·ended pe1•ience in meeting lecal business mea, in to a head, however, was the 1'Jic- IN THE EVENING BURST INTO when he was d-runk one night at 1 1 . -1 • • d h dl. ture- oh WE'll, there's no use pro- YIDDISH HYMNS . , . that New ,the club, solves the rnyste1y of the ~e ll1i].' auvert1s1ng, an • an mg- accounts. longing the bitterness. Neverthe- York trip of the economic stude·nts .slaying, cleans up the slot-machine 11 I 1. 'd 1 le ·r a ·body wa t to see a was something honorary-fel- · t\ing and marries the e:irl. A co e2:e newspar>el· uts, ues1 es t1.ese, ss, 1 n~ n s - - swell pic\ttre of NoPman, why, see low Price is quite a boy . . we A ca.pa.ble cast inal<es this film many other values. Well!nanag'ed it can and us! always realized. actors were tem-. good entertainment for an idle permental , . , but we never knew hour. should I:Je one of the most important and HANGOVIDRS <not to be STOCK BROKERS were ... cer- vaudeville constructive forces ill eolleg:e life. Lak~n litenrHy·l · · ·well, from the tainly swell of Librarian Webb to, They say that vaudeville is on ~ Iool\s of the paper a lll'W Senior pay for that extra keg of beer at its last leg~, wBI soon :become ex- The attack made upon The Concordiensis hoal'd has taken over · · · the out- the Concordy party ... now if he'd· tinct. 'The reason is. not too hard going ;boat·d couldn't agree on who only SMILE once and awhi.Je lo discem if you see this week's by seventl students at the tax hearing would should fil1 one of the positions everything would be an right . . exhibit. Called \Red Hot and be welcome criticism if it were ba.sed on fact. · · quite a scrap ensued · · · the h<'adline in Gazette: \UNION FAV- ·.Beautiful\ the only excuse for its We solicit criticism, just so long as it is in- telligent a.nd well-founcled. The college news- paper is not infalli:ble, but we believe it can and \ViH justify any support it receives fi'Om tht> student body. 'buclt was passed to the publica- ORED TO LOSE; HASKELL TO existe11ce 'is fhat it fills pa.rt .of the tions board who took three ballots PITCH\ Viola Patterson,. bilL This column thinks that all of -which ended in a tie be- Bailey HaH secretary, and Mounte- , vaudeville is in the nature of a tween two fellows · . · Hy Enzer, banks stanc1by (in their plays, we .3acred institution, able to provide the new editor was called in and mean) passed her Paramount in- good' personality entertainment. put on the spot ... he finally had terview and may be sent through But -if this show represents vaude- to do the deciding ... the board a training course in June ... the ville, we give up. is a good one howeve1·, and you one signHicant thing about .Skid-,, Damag-ed ·Lives 'will have a good paper they more on a weekend is the numbei The Erie p1esents until next will .be s-omewhat different from · of Union guys taking Sltidmore Wedn!'sday the first fi.lm that has :·the old board in that they will do girls amund . the one signifi- passed the New York State Board ··some vvot·lt their first i\sue cant thing about Skidmore party of C<:>n~ors that dea.Js explicitly was sort of bad on headlines week-ends l Prom and all ·College) with syph!lis and its socia.J effects. JUNIOR FESTIVAL ; , \:MRS. C0BURN DIED THIS is the ABSENCE OF UNIONITES The picture is to be lauded for i MORNJNG---INFLUENZA\ , .. suckers maybe? ... understand 'lttacking such a problem and in ' \THE :MOUNTEBANK'S PLAY IS the Glee Ch.tb had a swell time at line with the cunent drive on that A \\\ ee k from today, the campus \\'ill be: COMMENCED\ · . · Dickie Snyder · Buffalo \everything on the disease, has the approval of all ga,v with traditional Prom festivities. We ;:fio~ tgtbeSaltidb~roe~·.e .. re.cedni_dtnl~t wane alumni\ ... Charlie Berger crashed sorts of authorities. through again with a swell blonde a--- have anticipated it fm· a long- time; prepara- hear tllat. somewhere before ... Ed Moulton's da.te, 'tis claimed. Week's Best Editorial und,ersund Barbieri, the barber was married and, 'tis claimed, he tions are well under 'vay, and all things point has a fellow barbE'r friend from drank FRUIT JUICE , , . yet, 'tis OS'rRICHE8 AT COLLEGE to a Pl'Omenude that will match those of pl'e-· New J~I·sey who wants to come to claimed, HE MADE OUT BETTER Student bodies are made up of Union to worlt his way through THAN ANYBODY!!! ... aw, well many types of persons. But there depression days. college cutting hair ... well, he's ... gang of the Delta Phi's cele- is one type which is deserving of one fellow Freddy Wyatt can't brated the election of George the greatest sympathy and wring- l' nion will again be a host. And ns a. host,: it will h<tve to entertain its g-uests in the cor- rect, h<Js:pitable manne1·. We expect the Prom: Committee to fulfill its share of the bill, and evel':l' student to do likewise. It is on such impmtant social <Jccasions as this that our visito1·s gain their most vivid impressions of the CGllege. The o1·chestra which the Prom Com111ittee claim to hm·e brought here Doyle, n<>w prE'xy, with a party at ing C>f hands. Schow concert was pretty swell George Herath's Thursday Human necks are generally · · · Chipsl's made the killing with the Model League Council brought short; but prolonged effort by the Russell SagE' crowd ... EdiE' a lot of nice girls to Union last many of us has lengthened the Kruesi, pal of the brothers, looked wPek-end ... but the Psi U's got 'lVerage neck dul'ing the last few out fc>r t•heir interest~ PrE's the jump on the boys and dated the years. Problems of accentuatel1 im- Re<:>d, Bob Sheperd, and Kenny best onE's . , . they did the job so portance have besieged the world Brown drew the prize lemons' of well that there were no dates for ;ince the last depression, and the the night ... and all the·ir broth- the male deiE'gates to the confer- 1ew \ostrich\ student has contrib- ers did was to sit back and laugh p,nce!! ... nice goin' lads ... the uted to intelligent discussion and · · · e>ne of the lads described his .faculty advisor from Elmira ,proved 1.ction precisely nothing. compa nian as \TERRIBLE to be quite a nUisance what with College students are members of HO:MELY, BUILT AWFUL, criticism and everything els~ , 1. classified group of the commun- COULDN'1' 'CONVERSE AND at one point in the conference h~ lty. Whether they have been se- has seeured, w.e feel, is a good one. The de- COUL-DN'1' DANCE\ ... well, they objected to the way Ch<ulie Reeve< 'ccted for their opportunity by can't co·rnE' worse than that was \pushing\ something through wealth or intelligence, they have p1·ession is over, \name bands\ are in p:-:reat demand and undet· the circumstances, the committee has do11e an excellent job. l~ut the trouble i~ that many \wet-blanket\ people are never satisfied. They forg-et tlwt some- times the name of the band is not t·es:pon- sible fo1· the ~ocial success of a Pmmenade. We hope that everyone will forget thej,1· dif- ferences over· such insignificant things, nnd groom themselves next Friday night for an evenin~r of revel!'..)'. Fet\tunately this yem· we w11l have had two a.ll-college social affairs on the campu.s: the Schon· Concert and the Junior P1~0111. The success of the fmmer and of the happy tra- dition set by the latter, has emphasized th~ great btck of si'milar events on a campt!s which is divided by so many different group aft' ail'S. If we enjoy as much success next Friday nig·ht as we have heretofore, let ex- pel·ieilCe g·uide our future, and plan for more of tl1ese all-college programs during· the course of the year. VARSITY LACROSSE ln 1929 Union College shared the national: htct:o-sse championship, and the team in that yea1· lutd several men who were or who· later: became All-Ame1·icans. Although lacrosse has hl':st much ef its former lll'illi.ance at Union since that time, the present varsity tentn has shown itself one of the best since Jane :Bloomer was present at one he claimed that Charlie was i111 any case a supreme responsi- of the houses ... ah, yes ... Phi purposly wording motions so as to bility to thr society which has Delta and Delta Phi are in th~ confuse thP delegates 1>nd that even mad-e possible their opportunity mid\t of a friendly fued ... when he didn't know what they wer!' 'lnd the maintenance of their priv- the latter a1 e at dinne1· the Phi voting for finally Charlie de- iiPge. Therefore the problems of Dell's st•eal into the house and pro- cided that it was time the individ- war, unrmployment and und!'rpriv- ceed to move all tht' lumiture out ual was properly placed ... sooo, ileg.El in society are deserving of onto t.he porch ... the Delta Phi's looking directly at the gentleman .the most careful, deliberative con- t·etaliatt' by stealing Larry Clinton's he said \SIR I CANNOT HE sidcration by those whom society cot a:nd placing it on the fire es- HELD RESPONSIBLE FOR THE has bestowed with th€' equiprnl'nt cape ... biggest laugh of the year STUPIDITY OF OTHER PEO- to competently consider those prob- ·is the story of what happened b<:>· PLE\ ... the person didn't open !ems. fore the Concordy party- it his mouth the rest of the session!! Thus the studPnt, with his head ---------------------------- ·sunk in the sand of technicalities IDLE DRIVEL 'lnd specialization in things to which he fears to give social sig- nificance and to attempt to treat with all of his intelligence, is not , only a lamentable sight, but also a Un1'ol\tunately we did not attl'nd the Student Tax Committee hearing ~hea.ter on his patrons. He is not tonight. You see, we were working for the Concordy, covering a story legally a criminal, but by all the elsewhere. We feel a bi\ sorry for the Sig Phi's who are worried about moral considerations which society the state the Concordiensis is now in, and who think the editors are get- ~ommends and often ignores, th~ ting too much money, As a matter of fact we feel so sorry, that we ·•ostrich\ student is a criminal of thinlc one of the present senior editors of the Concordy ought to change the most subtle and pred.atory var- places with any of the Sig Phi's, who have a journalistic turn of mind. iety-he is collecting his fee and We're sure that at least one of the editors would be willing to give ove 1 avading delivery of the goods, the money he gets paid to any student who feels he would like to do the Many profess sentiments of the wmk h im.sclf. and thereby insure the publication of a better paper. It most noble spirit; but they also woul<l be a great thing for a senior editor to be able to go out fen a make their professions mere ver- change, to see a movie occasionally, to get drunl> even more occasionally. biage when they quickly jam their Wh~·, at times, he might even be able to study! heads back into the sand i.n order • • We've finally found out that the \Please\ signs stuck into our lawns are :neither psychological nor psychopathic. As a; matter of fact they are ·utterly futile against the hordes that daily ignore their condescending tone. 'I'he other day the chapel bell began tolling out \The Terrace Song\ and immediately these uncouth hordes began treading- the green g-rass under their so!<'s. AftE'r all, a short line is still the straightest distance bet\ve~n the Library and the Memorial Chapel. * * We notice that, among other things, the Sig Chi's are starting a kinder- garLen_ The other night we noticed for the second time a motley bunch of youngsters romping on the porch of their house. There were ·eighteen present, we counted them. At first we were suspicious, for a tiny light sparkled strangely on the sweater of one of the youngsters and we were sure il .was reflected from a pledge pin. But on closer scrutiny we dis- cover~d that he was just another member of the Junior G. Men. At any rate, vve hope the Sig Chi's are not housing any suspicious characters. * to miss those things which might tempt or force them to act on the basis of their study and conclu- sions. So we are required by the inex- orable logic of the situation to re- mind the ostriches of the college campus that \time is marching on\ with a gosc step which may not fpeJ so good in the seat of those who are bending over so diligently to keep their heads in the sand. -Cincinnati News Record. !N THE MAIL MR. 8!1\IPSON DEFINES To the ECLitor: th~tt eventful year. The advanced comp course is occupying a very conspicuous position U d h l d h . f · All these bright sunny days--the campus in front of Washburn HalL As a I have, <thank God), ·not onp drop of Caledonian blood in my veins. Nevertheless, 8.s represen- tative of ~. Scottish University I feel it is incumbent upon me to comment OTh your articles in the last two is-.sues of the Concordien- sis, the forthcoming production of the \Wind and the Rain\. In both these articles, Sir, you mention a Scotch _Play, and Scotch students. : 11 e!' t. e ea .ei'S lp 0 Its -AmeJ·ican result, the class is getting inspiration, the enlightened countenances of ca.pt.ain, Jack Smith, and Coach William the students are getting a beautiful coat of tan, and the prof is getting Harlmess, who is one of the ·!eadl'll.g' advo- his l>egular pocketful of grass which George Haskell dutifully plucks~ - Two days ago, for want of some good examples of writing, the class cates of the Indian sport in the East, Union's spuued Joe Annese of the track team to do the 220 to the dorm and bacl! in 23.2 bringing with him, instead of the bacon, some examples of team is making an excellent record this sea- hls high school poetry. In a breathless voice he read it to the class, a.nd ·when he had finished, everyone including Burgess sighed, sat still for a SO.ll. · morne:nt chewing on a blade of grass, and gazed up at the blue sky. The Tomorrow afternoon the varsity team will- poet-ry- was the best we've heard in the cla.ss since one member wrote meet Dal'tn 1 outh at Hflnover, N. TI·. 1 · 11 w\'at some dreamy triol'ets. Which goes to prove that maybe these high school \ r N 1 omances still cause the hearts to flutter-even the old ones. is a. crucial test. To George Burd, Donald Liffiton, Vincent Smith, William Reynolds, Elliott Fraser, Jack Smith, Joe Paul, Hal Vandecar and Doug Blue who will start to- mor!'ow's contest we give our hearty wishes for a successful trip. * We were very mruch shocked .this morning. In the middle of a Oomp. Lit. lecture, we were day dreaming to the tunes of Dr. Coffins sonorous words which di>oned of the influence .of the Icelandic sagas on late Euro- pean <lrama. Suddenly Dr. Coffin stopped, took two whiffs of the spring breeze which was wafted through the open window and coldly remarked, \You ha.d better run gentlemen-it's inspect spray,\ We never q_ulte recovered! · Now s.1r, shortly before coming to America I was at considerable pains to understand fully the pre- cise use of the adjectives. Scots S?ottish, and Scotch; and I a~ g•ven to understand by the natives 'of that country that, whereas any- thing pertaining to Scotland may ·be termed. Sco·ts or Scottish only two commodities may prope;ly be called Scotch, Neither of these is officia.!Iy recognized on the Union campus, for one <Scotch Mist) is dubbed fog, and the other (alas!) is a fo-rbidden nectar. Sincerely yours, B. S, 'Tinley Simpson ~ - 1 G: 0: Tl Jor Ba:J 1 c en dE tic tean Alex 4:30, whic end. char Hop: Fielc HE so .f muc: strer their Mice pron ackli Roct Co: pi tell day. jured Satut turn ken, migh ment serve time actiol injur• has I short also son, 1 nine this in a Da• uroba ping, Camr nett, siderE past · der o as in excep Marrt stop 1 Amaz dens Thorn a bad Phil I be in~ Will Hi The will ~ seasor at 3 Hig-h the o~ have E to d blank( to 0 E 1936 J Metro] The clded open in April : been prove~ Passe main d. Nugen the ne to the center is pre Charll1 field t and St malnd, StillmE strong 1 Wrighl letier, edly s, Hamil! The practic Falls Glens week. ball eiE two HE gin of northet of a 19 the Rl tute te 15 <S (Troy),

es a ed at he ne lm on ex- its a has for all of of by the few im- the and of se- by have has priv- of of con- prob- head to I sig- treat s not a s not the thP of y var- and the also ver- their order might the inex- to re- on\ not those one in my presen- I me to in the tion of >In corning derable he pre- Scots, I am natives as any- may only be is Union is (alas!) on == THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 7, 1937 Page Three Baseball With Syracuse Today Opens Eight Event Weekend ---·-. ~·~----------------------- Gat·net Nine 11eets Orange at 4:3·0 in Third Home- Game SPORTS CALENDAR Today Varsity Ba.sebaH with Syracuse University, Alexander Field. Varsity Stickmen Track Team Faces Ve rmtJn tTomorrow OpposeDarttnouth On Alexanier Field; Fll·oored To Win Golf Team in First Win; Defeats Middlebury, 5-1 'I'omorrow Jones or Haskell t., Pitch; Minor Changes ~ladein Rest of Lineu.p Varsity Baseball with Johns Hopkins University, Alexan- der Field. Match TomotTow at Hanover Is Toughest One on Sched- ule; Victory Predicted Dutchmen Expected to Beat. Frosh Culfers vs. Mohawk The Varsity golf team, won its first match of the season when it took the Middlebury squad to the tune of 5-1 in a r0turn match at the Mohawk Golf Club on Wednes- day afternoon. Captain Monty Froelich and Doug Gecr both toured the difficult course in 77 strokes easily giving them victor- ies ovPr the.it· respPctive opponents also winning them the low ball event. Ft·cshman Baseball with Green Mountain Junior ·College, Poultney, Vt. Green Mountain Boys The newly assembled freshman By Safe Margin . golf tea1n will play its .first match · tomorrow when it meets the Mo- Play Johns Hopkiils Hei'e Ba!ltimm:e Team Faces Ca.met Tomorrow; Johns!nt May 'l'wid for Union Opening one of the he~~cvle.st week- ends on ·the Union College Athle- tic PTogi'am, the Varsity baseball team meets the Syracuse nine on Alexander Field this aftEtnoo·n at 4:30. 'This ·is the first oft wo ,games which the team will play thi:s weel\- end, To·morrow Duke Nelson:s charges face the nine !r()lll. if ohns Hopkins University o-n ..Alexander Varsity Tennis with M. I. T., Union Courts. Varsity Lacrosse with Dart- mouth College, Hanover . Ft eshman Lacrosse with Alex- ander Hamilton High School, Library Field. Vm sity Track with Vermont L'niversily, Alexander Field. Fteshman Golf with Mohawk School, lY.Iohawl{ Golf Club. Varsity Net Team Meets M~l. T.Here Tomorrow afternoon the varsity lacrosse team journeys to Hanover Facing the stt·ongest opposition where it me-ets the Dartmouth thus far this season the Garnet stickmen. This is the fifth game of track men meet the University of the season for the Dutchmen. Thus Vermont team on Alexander field far they have won three and tied tomorrow afternoon. This is the one. With one ·Of the best teams third meet of the season for the in years to represent Union under Dutchmen who have scored victor- his tutelage, Coach William J .. ies in all of their last ten starts. Al- Ha·rkness 'has high hopes for a though Vermont is reported to have victory. This is probably the tough- a very strong team this year, Coach est game on the Union schedule. Bill Ketz feels certain of at least and if the Garnet ten ca.u pull 66 points, sufficient to clinch the through with flying colors, the match. prospects for the lacrosse team's · having a successful season can be easi'ly forseen, Coach Kctz will have his entire squad out and there '-Vill be no weakness in the ranks due to scho- lastic ineligibility. This should prove to be a distinct aid to Union's chances. hawk Country Day School at one o'clocl;; on the Mohawk Links. A win is ex:pected, as the Union team has two excellent men in Ben Lord and Herb Watson, who will play numbers one and two posHions re- spectively. The first venture of the yearlings in this sport, the team is being watched <:losely and the existence of futut·e teams will be based la·rgely on .the outcome of this sea- son. Ben Lord says Lhat the fresh .. look goo<l and will win.\ If so, a new er·a in golf at Union may be dawning, and at any rate, the var- sity will J>l'ofit from the experience C>btained by first-year men. The tea.m will be composed of Lord, H.et'hert Watson, Leo Mit1kin, and Fr-ank Mellowitz, who will play In the second foursome, Johnny M:u:well won his match two down and one to go while Ken Brown re- ce-ived the only Union loss of the day when he was beaten pn. the eighteenth hole. However, Brown and Maxwell got together to win the low ball match after a havd fight. Saturday's match with Colgate has been postponed for the pres- ent. -----01---- Track Meet Field at 4:30 p. m, Having played only .two games so .far tl!is season, there is not much on which to judge the strength of the Ga·rnet nine. In Face Engineers After Losing To Colgate in Return Match, 7-2 their 13 to 3 victory o·ver a strong Mon.day af.ternoon the Union Col- Middlebury team the tear.n· showed 'lege netmen meet M. l. T. on the promise, but in its 17 to 3 shell- Garnet courts. This is the fifth acking at the hands of a .powerful match of the season foi' the Dutch- Rochester nine, it looked' vez·y poor. men, and they are still looking for Dartmouth is reported to have one of the strongest teams in the east. It defeated a highly favored Yale ten, 7 to 6. The Big Green ten has had considerably more practice than Union, having rnade a tour of the South and meeting some of the best southern colleges. Although defeated In a couple of her early games, Dartmouth has progressed ra.pidly and should be a good test for the yet undefeated in the or!ler named. The old combination of Capta.in Hirst, Glen and Bowie will sprint II The entries for the Spring Traclt the 100 against Derby, Webster and. 'II Meet must be in the intramural box McMillan of Vermont, Hirst and .IN!fRAMURALS not later than Saturday noon, May Glen will double up in the 220 and 8. The rules are in your respective Endicott will be the ·third Union ;=============-:.! intramural boxes. Please enter only man, mnning against Kennedy, Softball those who ar·e actually going to Union stickmen. Coach William J. Harkn.ess Is not taking any chances, however. Besides taking the ten regulars, he is bringing nine substitutes. The starting lineup will consist of Burd at goal, Liffiton at point, J. Coleman at center point. V. Smith at first defense,. Reynolds at second defense, Fraser at center, Vandecar at second attack. Captain Jack Smith at first attack, Paul at the out-home position, and Blue at the Duley and McMillian of Vermont. compete. Fryer, Shugg and Hughes will com- May 10, 7:(]0 p. m.-Gamcs po.st- pete in the 440 against :McMillian, poned froru April 28: Alpha Phi Converse and Abbott. Delta-Sigma Phi; South College- theil\ first victory. M. I. T. has a Jones OJ' Haskell to Fitch powerful team and is especially Coach Nelson has decided to strong in the singles. C'aptain Lytle, number <>ne man, is e~:pected to pitell either Jones 01 ' Haskell to- put up the stiffest opposition. Dutchmen Gammons and Sweet Theta. Nu Epsilon; Phi Gamma will oppose Hal't'igan and Larhr in Delta-Beta T'heta Pi; Chi Psi-Phi the grueling half mile. Sheffer and Sigma Kappa. the Denton boys run against Steel Softball ltesults-May 4: Neu- Russell and Larhr of Vermont in trals 13, Alpha Phi Delta 12; Kap- the mile, with Hawkes and Wells pa Alpha 17, South College 10; pitted against Lamsome, Russell Kappa Sigrua 9, Phi Gamma Delta, and Steel in the two mile grind, 18; Phi Delta 7, Chi Psi 8. May 4, day. Jones, who was slightly in- jured in the Rochester garne last Hawley, Dwore, Carr, Orton, Saturday, will be able to take his Rathbun, and Murphy, in the O·rder turn on the mound. Gee>rge Has- named, will take care of the sin- kell, who has yet to start a g!l;me, gle matches. Hawley and Dwore might draw the starting :assrgn- will team up in one of the doubles rnent with Jones being kept in t·e- matches; Doc Orton and Bernie serve. Ll()yd Waters for the first Salad will comprise the second time this year will umloubtedly see doubles team: and Kessler and action tomorrow. Waters, who -was Carr the third. injured in a.n automobile aceldent, For the second time this year has been unable to pitch until a the Colgate netmen showed their short time ago. Elmer Johnson. will complete supe·riority over the Gar- also be on ·hand Saturday. John- net tennis team by an overwhelm- son. a Junior, twirled for the fresh ing victory last Wednesday after- nine in his freshman year, and noon on the Union cout·ts. W·heu this will be his first a~]learance the final doubles contest was fin- in a v.arsity uniform this yeaz·. · ished, Union had. won only two Dave Yunich, varsity catcher will matches and Colgate seven, nrobaoly do most of the ba~kstop- Union's only victories came in ping, l:>ut Duke Nelson wilt have the doubles matches. Fritz Hawley Cammarota as well as Tyler Den- and Mary Dwore, numbers one and nett, vvho has been showing con- two men respectively, downed their siderable ability as a catch.er in the opponents in decisive fashion, 6-2, past week, in reserve. The remain- 6-2. The other victory was turned der of the· lineup will be 'the same in by Captain Orton and Salad. as in the Ro~hester game ·with one This was the only doubles to g-o exception. Co-Captains Er<>wn and three sets, with' Orton and Salad Marra wiU be at first and short- winning the last two, 6-1, 6-4, after st<>p respect! vely, Myers at second, dropping the first 2-6. Amazo3l at third. In the .oute.r gar- Colgate swept the sin·gles. .not dens will be Miller in left., and only taking every event out losing Thomas in center. Wylie, ·who has only one set in s.ix matches·. This a bad ankle, will be unable to play. frame was talcen by Ben Rathbun, Phil Duchschcrer or Buchana.n will who after evening the match at be inserted in his place. one all, lost the third set. -----o Union was severely handicaped in the fact that Hawley and Dwore were unable to play their best be- cause of foot blisters contracted from playing on the asphalt courts Frosh Ten to Play Second Game· Here Will Face Alexande1· Hanilton Hig:h Sel10ol Tomonow; S tickwork Improved at Colgate last Sa.turda.y. Sumrnari<'s: Individual-Gear tU) defeated Neilson, 1 up on the 19th; Froelich CU) defeated Johnson, 5 and 3: Phinney CMl defeated Brown, 1 up; Maxwell I Ul defeated Collins, ·1 up. Best ball-Geer and Froelich (U) The Freshman Lacrosse team defeated Neilson and Johnson, 1 will play its second game ()f the up; Brown and Maxwell CU) de· season tomorrow on Library Field feated Phinney and Collins, 2 at 3 p. m., Alexander Hamilton and 1. High Sc::hool of Br.ooklyn a..f!ording The strong Colgate tennis squad the opposition. The Long I.sliuHLers which defeated Union Saturday, 8 have established an enviable r-ecord to 1, was in excellent form. Only to datP. Last Saturda:::Y they one match in the singles was not blanked the Rutgers freshmen 1 6 taken In straight sets. Summaries: to 0 at New Brunswick, N. J. In 1936 AI exander Hamilton -was the Singles - Wood, ( Cl defeated Metropolitan championship team. Hawley, 6·1. 6-1; Smith, !C) de· feated Dwm·e, 6-4, 6-4; Schmidt. The freshmen have shown de- <C) defeated ~ .n, 6-2, 6-3; Semple. cided improvement since their (C) defeated Orton, 6-2, 6-4; Quacl\· opening: match with Deer:fleld on enbush, (C) defeated Rathbun. 6-0 April 24th. Defensively thlags have 4- 6 , 6 _ 2 ; . Galpin, (C) defeated been tightened. Merlin F'ay has 0 t ll d 1 Murphy, 6-0, 6- . proven to. be a s e ar e e.:l'lseman. Doubles-Hawley and Dwore, !U) Passe and Brockmyer fortn .the re- I B·u defeated Smith and Galpin, 6-3. in-home position. Doug Blue Is the only new fig- ure in the starting line up. Mac- Murray Is unable to make the trip because of sch<>lastic standing, and Art Lawrence had to drop lacrosse for other interests. For reserves there will be Barford at goal, Baker, Thompson, and Clay as at- tack men, Fe.nton, Potts,. Kennedy, and C. Coleman as defense men. ----0·---- Spring Football Drills Stress Individual W ol'l\ Emphasis is being placed on the individual work of each position by Nels Nitchman in daily practice of the 1937 football team. All twenty of the men who have reported are being drilled in execution of plays and usage of shoulder and body blocks. The tackles and guards are practicing pullouts, dip charging, and wedge blocks as used on punts. Work of the ends consists mostly of pass receiving, while methods of checking and overbalancing when the defense aims to block punts are also receiving attention. All the lineman are concentrating on defensive moves. The ·backs are practicing cutting back, bucking a.ud change of pace. They are also doing plenty of pass- ing and •punting, along with spins and various fakes. Candidates for end are Le\ViS, Busino, and Henderson. Kluge and Halavan are working out as tack- les, while Baker, Irish, Kramer. and Lynn are doing guard duty. Adams is at center, and Dennett, Amazon, Thomas, Hammerstrom, Brockmye!', Quinlan and Deckro are In the backfield. Hurdles Win Expected Grant Smith and W'in Day look like sure winnez·s in both the 220 yard low hurdles and 120 yard high hurdles. Derrick will run -with them In the low hurdles. The Vermont 1 unners for these events will be Suitor, Rice and Trudeau. H. C. Smith and Arny are entered in the high jump against Trudeau, Webster and Budyzna. In the broad jump it will be Hirst, Bloom and Doyle versus Webster, McMillian and Gomez from Vermont. In the pole vault Union will be represented by Van Wert and Myers against Budzyna and Abbott for Vermont. Kreusi and Gatchell will put the shot for the Gamet, with LaPlant and Budzyna throwing for the Green Mountain boys. In the discus Chapin will team up with Gatchell and Kreusi against Ross, Suitor and LaPlant. Van Wert a.nd Bloom of Union are matched against Gomez, La Plant, and Nichols of Vermont in the javelin event. Black or Grain $6.00 to $10.00 a l'a.lr Serving Old Union 48 Years PAnON & HALl 245 Slat~ St. THE CAMPUS BARBER SHOP Basement of Silliman Hall A Special Service for Union Students ANTHONY F. BARBIERI HOURS: I :30-7:00 P. M. MOTHER'S DAY-SUNDAY, MAY 9 Remember Your Mother With Flowers T. J. KING FLORAL SHOP Overhead Crossing-State St. Phone 4-6444 mainder of tlre goal triang 8 - · 1 6 _ 2 : Orton and Salad. CU) defeatPd Nugent is per-forming admirably in · 6 1 Ill the n. ets. Bert Britten, a newc01ner Wood and Quacltenbush, 2-S, - !IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIBI•IB11111•111111111111111111111•111111111111111•1•••• 11 1 .At 6-4: Schmidt and Semple, <C) de· to the squad, .shows !}rOln se, feated Kessler and Carr, 6-0, 6-4. • k • f:n~e:~~~~~rneg.E~~~nd:a!~~~n~;~~ 5: Unl·an (.oll.ege Boo Store •• u: Charlie Trumbull are the -t'YVo mid- field attacli:men with Gene Fink KODA.HS RADIOS and Stuart Palos inside . .AI[ the re- FOUNTAIN PENS :: : rnainder of the squad. Including Expert Repairing B • • Stillman, Altemus, Matthew.s, Arm- • • strong, Chappell, Hill, Jflltehlns, J. T. & D. B. LYON B • Wright, Olmstead, Mayersolm. Pel- \Everything Photograp1ilc\ =. SUGGESTIONS FOR =. letier, and Witbeck wlllundoubt- 236 State St. Phone: 4-8647 edly see action against Alexander • n Hammo-n. :. MOTHER'S DAY AND PROM :. The attac.!t came t(} its o'YVn In ii. • • practice match with the Glens • N • Fails Academy, held em the So. AMERICAN A1 LAUNDRY • WEEK E D • Glens F\alls High School fiEld, last : : week. They managed to net the • • ball eleven· times. The power of .the The J.\l()6t Perfect Laund:Q' • • • two Har-kn.ess boys proved t:J:le mar- • • gin of victory however for the Work In th& Ca.pltol District : = northerners were on the hng- end • ( II s I J I • of a 19-11 S()Ore, Two sessh:ns with =. 0 .. ege e· a ·ewe ry =.· the Rensselaer Polytechnle I:nsti- l'hone 4-816G lOBO Barrett St. tute tea..m are scheduled fot• May 11 . • 15 <Schenectady) and May 20 .·II ;;;:;;:;;;;;;;;,;;:;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;=;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;=-Oiifll ·diiiiBIIIIIIIIBIIIIIIIRIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII·I=IIIIII (Troy). r,; 7:00 p. m.: Phi Gamma Delta 9, Lambda Chi, .Alpha 7; Delta Phi 15, Cbl Psi 4: Delta Upsilon 13, South College 12. May 5: Sigma Phi 9, Alpha Phi Delta 0; Theta Nu Epsilon 17, South Colle-ge- 13; Phi Gamma Delta 12. Beta T'heta Pi 5; Chi Psi 27, Phi Sigma Kappa 4. May 6: Lambda Chi Alpha 14. Phi Sigma Delta 9; Kappa Nu 13, Theta Delta Chi 3; Psi Upsilon 2, Delta Phi 5; Alpha Delta Phi 11, Delta Upsil<m 7. Tennis and Horseshoes The second round of the Spring Tennis and Horseshoes Tourna- ments must be completed on or be- fore Wednesday, May 12. Oppon- ents must arrange their own matches. MilK SO RICH YOU CAN WHIP THE CREAM Produced Under Strict Laboratory Control For Daily Service Pl-£0 NE 4-3121 General lee Cream Corp. Summer Po·sitions for Students EARN $40 fa $75 A WEEK • You can use your educational training and e a r n ex t r a money this summer. This unusual oppor- tunity for educational extension work in the horne is extremely in- teresting. Many students have been exceptionally successful and have found it the solution to their finan- cial problem. Write for full details and proof of results at once. The John C. Winston Co., Home ExteiiSion Dept., 1012 Arcl! St., PhiladE>Ipl!ia, Pa. FORBIDDEN UN'i\l!. i'JP-tN! ) The Picture Ev12ryone is Talking About \DAMAGED LIVEs· ••• It tear·s false modesty from one of humanity's most serious menaces. Suppressed Se~r.:=·is Revealed af t.az* Duo to tire musual In !l~1a!e sceJles, \ Dama.g~d I~ he a 1 ' nmst be s!Jown to ADULTS ONLY rnder 16 ~ot Atlm!tt~d ERIE Contlnuuus from l P. nr. Mat, Tlll 6 P. M. 25c-Eve. 4r

THE CONOORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 7, 1937 Page Four 0ALENDAR '['onight ·.Civil Suvic.e Chapter Union Wins Debate From Dartmouth Pnmr Contribution Drive Brings Faef.ton a Penny When he found he lacked the r~ady cash to accompany his Kappa Sig brother·s to the big dance of the year, Carl Fael- ton '37, didn't waste any time worrying. On the mantel he put a box bearing the inscrip- tion, \Semi Faelton to the Prom.'' E. S .. 0. Stnith, Weather Forecaster. Clullks Up Another Perfect Score 8:00 p, tn.-Freshman Calll-p Com:rnittee Meeting, Old Cha- pel. 8:30 p. m·.---'Schubert Club Com- -<)el•l, Mem<>rial Chapel. .s.attuday To Meet T\tesday Night The future .of the Union College : chapter of .the J'lati<>na:l Civil Serv- ice Reform Lea.gue will ·be discuss- . eel ,at the second organization ' II!eeting of tbe 'local group, at old ·!chapel, Tuesday night, at 8:30 '·ing .term. Union Records Perfect Score In At:gument Over ''arious Trade Unions Thursday, May 6.-1'he Unhm College debating team wen a per- fect victory over Da1:tmouth to- night in. a radio debatf\ over sta- tion WGY. Arguing on the question \that work£>1'~ of massNI industry shoulc.i b<\ organized in industrial unions,'' the Union representatives. C'la 1lt Cummings and Charles RPeves, gained the unanimou~ ap- proval of the judg~s. Union upheld the negative. To datP, one cent has bee.n contributed to the cause. ----0 NOTICES GRADUATION FEE The gl'Ud uation fee of $15.00 is due and must be paid TUESDAY, MAY 11, at the Compt1·uller',; Of- fice. A charge of $2.00 will be made for all payment made after the above elate. The Comptroller's Office will be open for the collection of fees on May 11, from 8:30 to 12:00 A. M., and from 1:00 to 4:30 P. M. Your cooperation in paying this fee on May 11, rather than before or after this date, will be appreciated. t- * * Marlt Twain said that .people are always ta.Jking about the weather and doing nothing about i:t , , , sooo . , , Pt:ofessor Edward S. C .. Smith, chairman of the Field of Geology, and Union's speciman of genius Weather Forecaster, challted up another 100 per cent figure this week to co·ntinue his per~ect record' as of today. Happening upon Milton M. En- zer, d·irector of the News Bureau. Professor Smith fell to discussing Monday night's meeting of Sigma Xi, which featured H. C. Willett, . one of the country's leading auth- orities on weather predictions. \Trained weather forecasters:· said Professor Smith to Milton Enzer, \are a.ble to predict change; within their own districts within 24 hours without special instru· · ments.\ Ralston Gives Assembly Talk On Famous Alumni Then Professor Smith took a squint at the sky and, without ful'- ther ado predicted a chilly Wed- nesday night and a rain by Thurs- day morning. \For he ex}llalned., \the winds are •blow.tng frGm the . southeast to the North they will· condense, get heavier, and It will· g.row darker.\ From these simple facts the Professor dr-ew his con- ciusions . . . and perfect conclu- sions at that, as it turned out. Optimists ave already suggesting that Professor ·SmiLh get in touch with the athletic coaches UJl at the gym in order to prepare them for weather conditions on game days. But, point out t-he p€ssimists, what good would that do? . . , even Pro- fessor Smith Is just .talking about the weather and not doing a thing about i·t. Sunday Chapel Services To Feature Dr. Reiland Stanley M. Bt·own, the first speaker fc>t· Dartmouth, said· that thPre weH' seven times more un- slt.jlled worker• than skilled in this puuntly. 1\H thP indus\ rial unions. uid the 01·ganizing, they were nec- essary. He aJsu stated that the eraft unions have failed to gain the supp01·t of the wage earner and thPre is a Jlressing need for a nc>w Iaber· organization. Cummings '37, spoke for the nrg- ative a.ml •tated that l:Joth skilled and· ;;emi·-skilit•d must be organizpu in cr·af.t unions. Furthl't·more indus- ! rial unions should be allowed only when cra.ft unions are unadvisable. DORMITORY HESERVATIONS Reser·vations for dor.mitory rooms for 1937-1938 are being made at the Comptl'olier's office by those who are now occu}lying rooms. Be- ginning Monday, May 17tQ, rooms may be reserved from any rooms not previously reserved. Except in the ca~e uf present residents using their own furniture, all rooms will be ren·ted furnished. No price ad- vances have been made. Wednesday, 'May 5.-Interesting events in the llves of men connect-. ed with Union College in \the good old days\ wer<: releatcd .today in daily assembly hy Thomas H. Ral- ston '40, :President of the class. Dr. Karl Reil'and, Rector Emeri- tus of St. George's Chureh in New Yor\{ City, win speak at the regular Union College Eervices in the Mem- orial Chapel, this Sunday, at 11 o'clock. After a prepa·t·atory education at the Cheshire Military Academy and the H0tchkiES Sc·hool, Dr. Reiland went to Trinity College, where he received his master of .arts degree in 1879. He 1 eceived his theologica·l, tl'aining at t·he Prote~tant EpiEcopal Seminary at Alex:andria, Va., and 1t t·he Berkeley Divinity School at Middletown Conn. GPorge E. Mackey, seC'ond af- firmative spt>aker, claimed that the industrial union was more modPrn than the craft. The A. F. L. is PVI'n an ind.ustrial org-anization. He said industrial union~ would JessPn \trikes. ~.tnbilizr C'osts, aid national \t>~i;.;latiun, an<! abolish all for·ms of cl1ild IRbor. Rt>eve~ '37 summed• up thP nega· t ivc a.r·gument with the statPment that the difference betWN'n. sltilled and unskilled labur is so great, that an industrial union would be ineffrcHve. ThE' industrial unions n<'ed '-l'arfare to survive, and arc therrfoH' detrimental to soPiC'ty. Reservations will not be carried aftPr July 1st unlrss the deposit of $10.00 has been received at the Compll·oller'• Office. The custom- aiy reduction of $5.00 will be made for rooms reserv<>d before Septemc One of the most interesting, wa» the meteoric r:se of Charles F.· Chandler .from the JlOSition of jan- itor to tbat of a chemistry profes-' sor in one year. The most famous man nationr.Hy in Ralston's shore talk was William H. Seward '20 who served in the famous wartime cabinet of Abr-aham Lincoln as Sec- r·etary of State. ber lot. Freshmen wiH not be segregated n<.>xt yPar and rooms may be select- ~d from any dormitory or section. The section in South College now undei·going complete renovation will be available for occupancy in the Fall. This will make a total of 126 Iuoms available. Th<' judgPs were th€ Rev<•rend J. • * Ov••rholtzet', pa><tor of the GracP MPt.houist Church, Hany E. Pratt, principal of the Albany Hi~h ::->chuol, and Bertram QuinPII, prin- ripul of the Scotia 1-Iigh School. o----- fmulty JJ\onwn\s Uub To Show l:inl Prints HAU~ HOUSE Hale House will be open until 3 A. M. on May H, Prom night in urdPl' to ~erve those attending the Junior Prom. • • • The Union College Faculty \Vum.en·~ Club in conjunction with the L'niun Coll<'g£' Library will ex· hi bit a rarP collertion of A ud u- hon's \Bir·ds of An~Hica\ on Fr i- dHy, May 21 in HaiP House in both the ufternoon and eYPning. HAI.:t: HOUSE DINNER Dinner at Hale House will be ~~rved one-half hour earlier tonight, bPginning- at 5:30 instead of 6:00 p. m. No meals will bf' served after !i:30. TUITION The club has also arranged an invitation tea for the event. Hri- rner Webb, college librarian, will ,;peak at th<> .. xhibit uuring th<' aft- P.Jnoon and night sho\\·ings. The set of Audubon prints, which Will be exhibitPu, is owned by Union College. It was purchased by Dr·. Nott 100 years ago. Mrs. Wan en C. Tiiylur, chairman of thP eommittt>e in chat·gc of arrangP· n1ents •aal, · The6e fH inG arc very beautiful, a~ide ft um thPir va!UI' and 1·arity, and the Club fepls that it is a real contr·ibution. to th<' C'UI- tm·al life of Schrr:wctad.y to ~how them.\ Thr final installment of tuilion for the second semester is due and must be paid on Friday, May 14, at the ComptroiiN's Office. A charge of $2.00 will be made for all pay- menL~ matle after May 14. Any stu- dent who cannot make payments dUE' to the chang<.> of date is re- questPd to make special arrange- ments beforehand. The Comptt·o!ler's Office will be opPn for collection of tuition in· stallniPnts on Friday from 8:30 to 11:45 a. m. and ft·um 1.00 to 4:45 p.m. • • Erratum According to Ml\. Webb. the Au- dubon birds are o11e of thP gtPat- t•st rxampiPs of American art and English printing. Be said that thf'y ale the result of a lifetime of ef- for-t by the Franco-AmPr ican na· turalist John Audubon, who tra· veled constantly through the east, middle-west, and south during the yea1•s 1818 and 1825, Thr name of Herman Kessler, '3&. was omitted !1om thP Dean's Ibt for the ·third 'JU81 tl'r. The copy that .\be Union Librai'Y oW!ls is one of the C'arliest sets· to bP issued. It was JlUrchased by Dr. Nott dir~>ctly fro-m Mr. Audubon I on the latter.'s. visit to Sehenf'ctady in .JfH4. at which time Dr. N ott also pu1f'ha\.pd \The Birds\ and a set of plates of quadrupeds for $1,,300. 1 Mr·s. Warren C. Ta.ylor is being I ns<1isted in the arrangements by Mr<. LPonard B. Clarlt, Mrs. Har'l'i- 1 \'\ C. Coffin, MrR Dixon Ryan ' Fox, :\Tt \· FrP<iP.rirk C'. ~chmidt, I and Mrs. Morton C. Stewart. Cl Two Initiates ItubPrt J. Sammet, '40, and Ctuu !~s J. l'a~:s•· '40, wei\ in it iatPtl 1 InltJ \'he Dcltu 1:-poilun fr a!pr.nity I la•t night at a ;pecial in;·itation at ! tile cha·pt .. r hoU'<' Compliments of PEOPLE'S FOOD MARKET 1291 Rugby Rd. PilE GROVE DAIRY, Inc. 118 S. FERR.Y ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. • LOUIS WASSERMAN QUALITY MEAT MARKET 354 Broadway to:oo: '\· ilt.-Daily Assembly, Frederic A.. Wyatt '32, Mem.o- dal Ch~pel. lO:!W •U. rn.---'Graduate Council Meeting, Trophy R0om, Gyrn- nasi1lm. 1:00 p, m.-International 'BroEtd- cast, Organ Recital, Dr. El- mer .A. 'Tidmarsh, Mem:or'ia:l Cha]Jel. 9:00p. m.:--!Pyramid Club Dan-<:e, Hanna Hrull. Sunday 11:0~ u. ·ln.-Sunday Clla}lel, lDr. Karl Reiland, Memorial Cba- pel. 4:.0() p. m.-Organ Recital, :Br- Elmer A. Tidmarsh, Memorial. ChapeL M<>nday 7:30 p. m.-Band Rehearsal, T·rophy .:ftoem, Gymnasium- 7:30 p. m.-Philomathean So- ciety Meeting, Old Chapel. 11:45 p, m.-Round Table Dis- ctLssion, International R-ela.- t!oiJs Club, \What We A1l SI\I· dents, Expect fr<>m th€ Flil- ttLre,\ VVGY, W2XAD .an<! W2X~F. Tuesda.y 9:()() a, m.-Registration ft>r Graduati-on, 'Comptroller's Qj'- f.lce. ~coNNELLY 'BROTHERS DAIRY.Inc. l8&S1 HAMBURG Sfii.EE1' PHONE 2·0910 Plans for ILex:t year's chapter will be outlined., a .report of the na- tlorm.l ·college cl!'g-anization meeting at New Y<>rk, .April 29, will be given by Jerome Smith, '39- and M3ilcolm Arny. '3~, Union College . delegates, and officers for the com- ' h1g term will be elected. A cha·rter will also be drawn up· by the attending body Tuesday night, from the suggestions .offer•ed ·by the representatives of 31 col- leges .at the N€lV York meeting, ,) CJHARLES! (:formerly Ed's) The official ·Union College 'bar- b!lr for the past 26 years. Aslt; any upiJel'1llassrnen, they know. Four .operators. Schenectady'~· greatest barller. Cor. 'STA..'.l'E and B'WAY W P:LDORF FOR Top Hat, White Tie and Tails TO HIRE NEW Tuxe~as $2.SO Complete with Dress Sb.Jrt, Collar, $3.50 Tie, Studs Dress Suits Always WALDOltF TUXEDO CO. See Jack Gilmour Delta. Upsilon House GAZETTE PRESS Printers ... ~ the cigarette with refreshing MILDNEss and more pleasing TASTE and AROMA invites you to hear this popula:r program. ALL COLU 1 MBIA STATIONS EVERY FRIDAY EVEN lNG I AT 83Q E. D. T. v( v A Fa 1 sit~ 3:0 me1 an Tl by j will gate shar fray men ing vine Harr OIS I as p did ' the Sit regu ana· the!; pose, mit ticke have ;;ary pi'OCl Outi1 in fr Th rent! Yorll gamE one 1 with Hopl great ning its 1 Wed; sitior Du Colb; for t recei ion used Fr T' Con F On Sprh usheJ the 1 take will 1 Gard Tet'l'! Th• Edga the c ciall:y of \f the e with Ea• son.g after !nate• \The man CamJ ThE noun• fesso: Dr. \J becat town take ThE the c partn Delta Upsil Slgm: Phi ~ ThE read:y are e sessic Delta In t the c 20th.

ge ter be up· col- . ·•· t. Prom Pre pa.~ati on s In Progress • Albany Senators To Play Unio!'l Friday Vol. LX., No. 55 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, l\IAY 11, 1937 PRICE FIVE CENTS ~ ~~----·-~·------·--- Varsity Baseball Team Plays. Ten t9 Be Awarded Students Disa.g~ee/Over Two Hundred Guests Alb ' ' s· . ·t H ' F .d ' , .. Mountebanks Keys Over Appropriation ' . . '. • ' any ena ors ·ere rl ay.ForDramaticWork ForCo:ncordien.sis Expected for Jun1or Prom Faces Prof esslonal Team iu Game Arranged by Union Outing Cl'ub; Colleg·e's Share of Recei11ts To Pay for T'uckerman Plaque Union students will have an opportunity to see their var- sity baseball te::\m in actioH against a. pyofe,ssional nine <lt 3:00 p. m. on Friday afternooH, when Duke Nelson's charg€s meet the Albany Senators of the New Yol'k-Penn League in an exhihition _game on Alexander Field. ~----------------------------- The contest has been arranged by the Union Otiting C1ub which will receive fifty per cent of the gate receipts. The club will use its share of the proceeds to help de-. fl'ay the expenses of the Tucker- men Plaque, a tablet whic r.. is be-' ing erected in the 1'uckerman Ra- · vine on Mount ·Washington in New Hampshire to per.petuate the mem- OIS of Edward T1.1ckerman '47, who as professor of botany at Amhezst did considerable If.'seatch work on the mountain. Since the game is not on the regular college schedule and since anangements have been made en- til ely by the club fm a special pur- pose, athletics tickets will not ll:d- mit students to the field. Specml tickets priced at fo1 ty cents each have been printed' and are neces- :oary for admittance. Tl:ese may be procured from members of the Outing Club and repzesentatives in fraternities and dormltortes. Equal M:atch The Albany Senators are cur- rently in eighth place in t~e. Ne~ Yorlt-Penn League, so l! nday s game may not be as one,sided as one may imagine. T'he Union team, with Saturday's 7-ff win over John's Hopkins under its belt, is a ni.ne greatly improved since the begm- ning of the season and fresh from its encounter with Williams on Wednesday should offer stiff oppo- sition to the Senators. Duke NelHon has announced that Colby Jones w.ill toe the rubber for the Garnet with. Yunich on the receiving end. The 1est of the Un- ion lineup will be the same as used in scheduled games. ---~o----~ Fraternities Sing Thursday Evening Contest te~ Usher in Weekend Festivities, Nine Houses Will Compete On Thursday night the annu~l Spl'ing night song con~est. w1ll usher in the weekend festtv~ues ~n the campus. Nine fraternities ~11ll take part in the competttion whtch will talte place at 7:15 in Jacksons Gardens under the ausnices of the Terrace Co~mcil. The College chimes, played by Edgar Moulton, Jr .. '37, will ptecedP the concert. The prog1 am IV Ill o~fi­ cially commence with the singmg of \By the Light .of the M<;>on\ by the entire gathering and WI 11 close with the \Alma Mater.\ }acl~son's Gardens Ready For ltfany Prom Visito1·s Everything will :be in readi- ness fot· the Prom this week~ even Jackson's Gardens. Accor~ling to the JatC'st report ft·on1 the Head Gardener tcare· of His .Magnificence the Presi- dent's Housel, .daffodils will bloom for the Prom, and the giant ft·og in the spring pool will .b·e out of hibe1 nati<m to act as d1apercn. Most important to prom trot- ters. howevPr, iH thP announce- ment that new benches will .be ready for USC' in Ja<'ltson's Gardens on 1:-rom night. -- -·-- 0·---- -·- Civil Service Club Will Meet Tonight Officers Will Be Elected And C'onstituti()n Drawn Up At First Meeting The L'nion College chapter of tlle National Civa Service Reform League will hold its second and final 01ganlzation meeting of tbe year, tonight in the Old Chapel, at 8:30 o'clo~k. to ma·p the futuz.e course of such a group on the lo<:!al campus. Election of chapter officers, co-n- sisting of president, vice·president, 'l<'Cretary and !l·pasuret· will occupy the fit·st part of the meeting. Fol- lowing that there will be a .t·ep?'rt of the national <'Ollege orgamzahon meetina in New York, April 29, by the tw;; co<lleges repr·esenting Union College. A general college constitution f()r the Union group will then be drawn up from the program distributed to the cariollil 31 college delegates .at new York, and from the ideas first substituted at the initial gathering . of the local group, Apr·il 27. Discussion will also take pla<:e on the plans for the chapter- f()r the 1937-38 year. Dr. Patterson H. French, faculty advisor of the gi·oup, wm <Jff<!r sugges~lons to t~e group for it to follow, smce he w1ll h·ot be availruble next year. In conjunction with the forma- tion of a civil service chapter of the national league, Jerome Srnith, '39 student orgonizer of the Union gr~up with Malcolm Arny '37, will speak in Daily Assembly, Wedne.s- day, May 19, the president's office announced yesterday. - ---~o----~ Franco- Amel'ican Revie\· Notes vVork by Larrabee The spring numb.er of t.ne Franco-Aznerican Revtew conta1ns a notice of Dr. Harold A. Larrabee's Mrs. Fox to< ,Judg«> ar·ticle, \How Ramee came to ~che .. Each fraterhlty will sing one necLady,\ which was lltst publ1:o~eu song of theit· own choosing ~nd in the Feb1·uary issue of the Umon after all but three groups are elim· College Alumni Monthly. Undet· the inated the survivers Will :;ing either title \A Fr·ench Architect in ArneJ> \The 'l'enace Song,\ \The Dutch- ica ·• the Franco-American Review man Song,\ \Conte N~w to t?,e says that the article \brings up to Campus,\ or \It's Union~ Game. date resea1·ches which Dr. HaroLd The judges were ozlgmally an- A. Larrabee and others have been nounced to be Dr, 'Tidmarsh, Pro- malting into the llfe of Joseph· fessor Taylor, and Professor. ~ale. Jacques Ramee, author of the first Dr. Tidmarsh will not partHJlpate unified architectural plan for a col- because of an engagement out ?f lege in Am eric~. Here~ofore Unlo n town and Mrs .. Dixon Ryan Fox w1ll College knew llttle of tts once fam· take 'his place. ous architect. Ramee ~arne to The nine houses to conte.nd for America. in 1811, as architect and the cup, awarded by the Music De- town-planner for the e:x;tensive partment, wr!l be Phi Gamm~ properties acquired by Dav1d Par· Delta, Delta Phi, Delta Up~ilon, Pst ish who some might remember, Upsilon, Alpha Delta Pt;t. ~appa fig~res i~ Hervey Allen's \Anthony Sigma, Kappa. Alpha, Ch1 Ps1 and, Adverse\. Phi Sigma Kappa. ---o G The fraternities which have al- OON<JORDIENSIS MEETIN ready won the con test twice and A meetin of the entire editorial are eligi·ble for the perma.nent poa- staff ·of .Jhe Conoor'dienshl will session of the cup are Pst Up~Ion, . taJ,e plooe romoiTOW afternoon at Delta Upsilon and Kappa Alp a. m in Silllnmn Hall. Attend• In the event of inclement weaMther 1 5 :~ Pby 'every membe!\ is stiietl:y the contest will be held on ay ·an ui ed 20th. ··eq 1' • Actors and Technicians Will Tax: Apportionment Raises Many Activities A1·e Scheduled for Gala Weekend, Inch.l!ling Dances, Baseball, Play; Be Honored f()r Thre~ Controversy Ovet· Glee Y eat·'s Service Club and Conc()rdy CompUrnentary Awa1·ds Miriam Doyle and Bruce Adams to Receive KeyH As Guest Directors Monday, May lO.~Twelve college actors and technicians will be awat·ded Mountebanks keys, pl•esi- dent of the executive committee, John B. Dowling, announced today. fhose receiving the rewards are fony Sharpe '38, Valley Falls, N.Y.; Pnston Turner Reed '38, Hartsdale .. N. Y.; William W. Mulvey '38, Sche- nectady, N. Y.; Carlton Garriso11 37, St. Paul, .Minn.; Ft ederick W. Frost, Jr., Los Angeles, Calif.; AI· bert G. Botden, Jr. '39, South 01 ange, N. J.; Henry M. Stephen- son '38, Buffalo, N. Y.; Forrest W. !{eynolds '38,, Elmira, N. Y.; Rich- ard F. Angle '38, Rochester, N.Y.; Hyman Enzer '38, Elizabeth, N.J. In addition to the students to be· honot ed, Miss Miriam Doyle and Bt·uce Adams, both of New Yorl~. will be awa'l·ded keys In recognition of their work as guest dhectors dming this past season. Miss Doyle directed \Squaring the Circl~\ and' Mr. Adams ,produced \Winterset\ and is at present hard at work di-. 1ecting \The Wind and the Rain.\ Students must work on thi,ee rna-, jor productions of the Mountebankll to teceive the key; they must have proved their ability in either the: acting or the technical aspect of· the college theatre. Sharpe, Mulvey, Reynol<ls and Enzer have all been acted in sev-· ez·al Mountebanks productions. Gar- rison has been master carpenter: and' Borden, master ele<:!trician,· while Reed has been property man-, ager for two y·ears. Frost has play-: ed minor roles, has done some, work in :otage design and hru; acted. as a student director. Angle made; his Mountebanks debut in Oedipus; Rex, having also been active as a: stage hand. Stephenson has been, house manager for two yeaz-s; --~~o--~ Weather Forecast Dr. E. S. C. Smith, head of the field of geology and well-known amateur weather prophet, will forecast the w·eather for the prom: weekend on Thursday afternoon. The Concordiensis will place a spe-. cial notice on the bulletin .boardi immediately after Dr. Smith maltes his prediction. Students Interviewed Kmesi, Borden, Walling-, Clay A.nd Cohen Voice Strong Opinions The controversy about Concor- diensis and Glee Clu'l' appmpria- tions, begun last Wednesday night at the Tax Committee open hear- .ing, still remains a controversy, with practically the same princi- pals. 1eporters found out today in taking a c1 oss-s~ction of campus opinion. Paul Kruesi '37 and Albert G. Borden '39, still hold their posttion as severe ct itics of Tl<e Concor- dif'nsis, while W. Donald Walling '37 t·emains the ardent champion of the Glee Club and its banquet appropriation. Rmesi Writes Letter W·ith the exception of a few minor criticisms, five o-ther men interviewed by ~'~\porters favored lteeping appropriations at their present level. Reiterating his stand of last Wednesday night, and ptomising to amplify it with a letter to the edi- tol', Rruesi still thinks that The Concordiensis should be a weekly, instead of semi-weekly paper, This would, of course, entail a budget cut. Last week, according. to the audience at the hearing, his gen- eral theme, and tha.t of Borden, was that three dollars for 60 is- sues. the present charg-e, is too much. Walling Defends Gl~e Club As for Walling, w·ho fought val- iantly last week to recover at least $36 of the \misappropriated\ $180 made from the produC'tion of \The Mikado,\ he is adamant. He states that the Club should get more money not only for banquets, but for meals on trips. Cohen's Opiniom S. Ralph Cohen, who managed to champion both The Con<:ordiensis and the Glee Club during the hear- ing, was again on the defensive. Aside from his contention that un- der the peculiar circumstances surrounding the much-publicized $180, a banquet appropriation 3hould be made, he thinks the ap- propriation is adequate .and even ample. He would lilte to see, how- (Continued on Page 4) Diamond and Patterson To Appear For Second Time In Student Play Viola Patterson and Joan Di~-:· Also. somewhat of a singer, she has mond, who acted together ~n played in \Iolanthe\ at Nott Ter- \Squal'ing the Circle,\ will agatn: 1 ·ace and in \The Hondo liers\ for appear as a team in the pedor- the Schenectady Light Opera Com- mancea of \The Wind and the .. pany, . Rain\ to be presented this weekend. A g-raduate of Nott Terrace Htgh by the Mounte;banl{S. Mrs. Patter- . School, Miss Diamond held a son will play Anne Hat·greaves, and scholarahip 'last year at the Syra- Miss Diamond·, Jill Mannering. ; cuse University drama summer Thc:oc zoles are very sim.ilar to. :ochool. In Septembet· she may the parts ~r Tonya and Ludmilla. either go to Ithaca Colleg:e, Louisi- whiGh these girls .played in the: ana State University, m· else take former play. Being highly contrast-; her chance in the theatrical offices ing t;,;pes they have. ~urnishedidPal. in New York. material to both M1rtam Doyle and: Mrs. Patterson made her debut Bruce Adams for the leading lady two years ago in the Mountebanks' arid typical ingeneu role. • prom production of \Twelfth Their appearances Friday nig~t; Night,\ playing Olivia, and ever will also be somewhat of an anm-' since she has been ltept busy be- versary celebration. For Viola .Pat-, tween the Mountfrbanks and the ter.son it will be a second anmv~r- Schenectady Civic Playhouse. In sary as an actt·ess, but for M~ss, the two intervening years she has mamond it will mark her thtr-. played Lucille in \As Husbaq,ds Go\ teenth year on the stage. , and Janet Evans in \Lost Hori- Joan Diarrl<md's first appearance,: zons\ for the P!ay.house, a_nd Tonya one which she doesn't remember in \Squaring the Circle. very well, .was at the age of six Although she saw plenty of dra- in a play given at Lake of the rnatics at Nott Terrace Hig·h School Woods Ontario. Her first clear' and afterward in Boston at the stage ~emeries come fr.om appear-:. Katherine Gib•bs School, Mrs. Pat- ances in o•percttas at the Van· Cor-! terson never quite got around to laer Junior Hlgh School. ; trying out for any parts. Since then she hru. played con-:: \I often went to them but slstantly in productions at the Nott 'turned bac]{ when I gO<t to the Terrace High School and the Civic door,'' she explained. \I used to try Playhouse, playing in \Dear Bm-: acting at home, but ne-ver sum-: tus,\ \Milestones several T. 0. P.,'moned up enough nerve until Ed- pro·ductlons, and with the Mounte-:: ·ward' Carroll persuaded me to .try banks in \Squaring the Circle.\ Olivia. in \Twelfth Night.\ Prom Patrons Announced ·Favors for Junlol\ PJ•om will be distributed tomonow f.rom Ill a. m. to 5 p. m. in the Student Activities Office. :Ufm·e than two hu::ndred guests are expected to come here this weekend fol' thE7 1937 Junior Prom, the most im.portant social event of the year. The weekend promises to be gay with many dances, house pm'ties, picnics, a baseball ga.m€, and a Mountebanks J.>-lay. Blou•ing His H .orn MA.ESTRO RUSS MOEGAN Bergstrom El~cted I. 0. C .. A. Secretary Appoint Beebe Chairman fo1· Meeting Next September; Swanson Speaks John Bergstrom '39 of tlle Union Outing Club was elected -executive secretary of the Intercollegiate Outing Club Association this last Saturday at their annual meeting held at Lake Buel, near Great Bar- ring-ton, Mass. For the flrSJt time in I. 0. C. A. history, tlvo of the three .executive offices have been assigned to one college. B-ergstrom was also elected editor of the \IOCA Bulletin,\ a quarterly pub· lication, and Robert L. Beebe '39 was appointed chairman of the an- nual Colleg.e Week program in September. The Union Outing <Club .vill have charge, for the third co:11sccutive time. O<f the College Vl£>ek Pr-og.ram of the I. 0. C. A. which voted to hold. lt In the Mt. Marcy z·egion of the Adirondacks where it has taken place during 1935 and 1936. This year the 32 colleges 'Will send their delegates for the annual pre- college o•pening holiday during the week of September 11 through 18. Enzer To Assist Walter E. Williams '3<7, J]resident of the l'nion Outing Club also an- nounced that Milton M'. E:nzer '29, has accepted the appointment of \alumnus advisor,\ assisti.ng espe- cially in the publicatio·n activities of the campus club. He will aid Bergstrom in editing the L 0. C. A. quarterly. The annual spring conference of the I. 0. C. A. took place at Camp To-Ho-Ne on Lalte Buel, u:nder the auspices of the Vassar College Outing Club. The Union delegation included Walter Williams, William E. Swanson, 38, John Bergstrom, '39, John M. Wright, '40, and Fred- erick A. Wyatt, '32. Bergstrom succeed.ed David Ha1vley of the University of Ver- mont as executive secretary of I. 0. c. A. The entertainment offered the 85 delegates from the 32 coileges ln- clud·ed climbing Squaw J>eak, and a lectu-re illustrated by motion pic- tures, by Bradford: Washburl1 <Harvard} on his recent explora- tion of the Failwea.thel' range mountains in Alaska for the Na- tional Geographict Society. The Junior Pt·om Committee, headed by Harold B. Ackerman, has begun immediate preparaUons for the welcoming of the many guests on the campus, and is get- ting ready for the decoration of the gymnasium and the setting up of fraternity and neutral booths. Russ Morgan and his orchestl'a will ar- rive on the campus by Friday after- noon. Thursday night about nine fra- ternities will give a new touch to the Prom atmosphere, taking pat·t in the annual Spring Song Contest in JaciD!on's Gardens one night be- fore the Prom itself. Friday afternoon the Union Cot- lege base ball team will play the Al- bany Senators on Alexander Field in an ex:hibition game undet· the sponsorship of the Outing- Club which is raising funds to honor the memory of Union's famous botan- ist, Edward Tuclterman of the class of 1837. During the Prom from 10 p. m. to 3 a. m. the dining hall and lounge of Hale House will be open to the guests and members of the college. Refreshments will be served throughout the dance. \Wind and Rain'' Friday night The Mountebanks will put on their opening perfol'm- ance of \The Wind and the Rain\ in the Hanna Hall theatre. The play is the last one of the schedule for this yeat· and concludes a season which has been dirPctPd by Miss Miriam Doyle and Bruce Adams, both of the professional stage. The gpnnasium will be artfully decorated by the George Trahan Company in the design of a ship and a nautical-looking cabin will shelter Russ Morgan and his play- ers. There is a rumor that a special quartet of trombones will be lo- cated in the copula of the Memorial Chapel around dusk Friday night, heralding with songs the arrival of one of America's foremost expon- ents of the slide-trombone. Patrons The patrons for the Prom this week-end IVill be as follows: Mr. and Mrs. Dixon Ryan Fox, Mr. and Mrs. Charles F. F. Garis, Mr. and Mrs. W. D. Coolidge, Mr. and MI·s. Anthony Hoadley, Mt·. and Mrs . .Al- bert M. Hull, Mr. and Mrs. Irving Langmuir, Mr. and Mrs. Chester W. Rice, Mr. and Mrs. Charles S_ Ruffnez·, Mr. and Mrs. Earl 0. Shreve, Mr. and Mrs. Charles N. Waldron, Mr. and Mrs. Wlllis R_ Whitney, and Mr. and Mrs. W. Howard Wright. Favors for the Prom will be dis- tributed to all ticket-holdei\S. Tickets may still be obtained frotn any of the members of the com- mittE>P or at the Student Activities nffiC'E' from 10 a. m. to 5 p.m. 0--·-- Uuiou, Hamilton Students Discuss Court Decision Another in the series of intet'-<:!Ol- legiate roundtable discussions ]n- augurated by Dr. Fox toolt place this last weekend when students from Hamilton came to Schenec- tady to discuss the problems of the Supreme Court and the Constitu- tion with delegates from Uni()n. Participants for Union included Dr. D. W. Cambell, Irving Brownstein, Marvin Katz, James McKenzie, John Potocki, Robert Rice, Joseph Cafarella, John. Cebula and Charles Motisher. The delegates met at dinner at Hale House and afterwa1·ds the rountable was held in Silliman Hall. Despite the formal resolution to terminate the discussion at 10:3(), the exchange of ideas proceeded so v~gorously that It was nearly mid- mght before the meeting came to a close.

Page Two btrnsis \A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ FouNDED 1877 1()36 Member 1()37 t:bsodaled Colle6lcde Press Distributors of Cone~iate Di5esf REF'RE&E;NTIO.O F'OR ·I'<AHI.)NAL.. A~.ni:;:,H'TlSING SY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representai/'C!C 42.0 MADISON AVE. NEW YoRK. N.Y. CHICAGO ... BOSTON • SAN FRANCISCO LOS ANGELES • PORTLAND .. SEATTLE The official newspaper of the students o_f Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fn- days throughout the college year, except dur- ing Christmas and Spl'in_g recesse~.-----­ Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St.. Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone-~-- -Exrt~red at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Ma:il Matter Sub~criptlon pric;-Fl~~ ;;-e;1ts a co~y; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhe1·e In the Umted States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectad~ 4-0133. _ Senior Board Hyman A. Enzer ... , ............ Editor-in-Chief 11 S. 8. ::)uuth Cullt.~gt.>--t.i-~ 1 7::!~ Julius J. Bundgus ... , ........ ,. Editorial Board 2 8. ~. :::Iouth Cullt:~~- li-~ 1 7:.!~ Robet·t H. Fergusun ........... Editorial Board P::-:i Cp~ilun-- 4 ~au Henry D. Hartmann ... , ..... , . Editorial Board ;.iU Cntun .\ve -! -:(ili~J Cad R. Trahman .............. EditOiial Boa1d K.Lp}Ja Siguw--·l~S3:!5 James W. Righter ..... , ..... Business Manager I1t>lta Cp:silon llou~~-4-71!~2 Alfred R. Seigle ...... , .. Circulation Managor ------~K\'a\--!J\'P.•:.:.''_:s_·_u_-_4_-7331 ------- Junior Board ASSOCIATE EDITORS Herbed 0. Fox Robert A, Saaf Frederick Vv. Hequembuurg Jerome Smith H. \\lyman Hitchcocl< Edward C. Reta1·tyk David B. Miller Robert C. Walter, Jr. Edward C. Retar tyk Sophomore Board Assistant Edltol'S C. Russell Deyo, Christopher M. Fahy, Rupert L. Gilmore, William G. Gormley, Albert H. Halavin, Richard S. Harrison, George L. Peclt, Lawrence V. Pellettier. Jr., Thomas H. Ral- ston, Townsend J. RifenbUI y, John J. SteidlE\ M. Gale Hoffman. J::;sue Editors THE CO~CORDI\ENSIS, TUESDAY, MAY 11, 1937 Societies. We hope that through the appro- ·~.···!·.··.. ~·~: QUOTES and COMMENT priation for the latter g.wups, The Adelphic il========,~=·-?=· -·~=·~-· =:M·=,·=-N==;;;;;;;=====-·· ~... we cullE'd this one .fl'0m the Ro- ,~-il\ ilt> r<.>\'ived. lt w;ll add distinction to and chester Campus: renew traditions of Unio11 College. Librarians have to get used tl ' to a great variety of saluta- V\'e need not coinlnent upon ·1e semol' one of the su·bjects which engages , Five, seven, eight --he feels his tions, comp'\iinenta\y and oth- clas::;. The 21 cents should be an annual fund ou1· Imagination i~ what do pea- stomach creep. erwise. ·pie d 1 eam about? 'No plunge for him. He waddles 1 1 , .. r · 1 t 'b t' t Th C The one \that tops t1em a., ()1\ S€11101' e aSS COR l't · ll ·1011S 0 . e om Now of course when somebody like down the ladder, as far as Miss Vera Tweddell 111tlnitv Chest and The Red Cross. Dr. Danton dreams it's probrrbly 'J1cmches the wave and shivers in of the circulation department 1s ' h t b ut his sleep. . Olll , pi'l.RCl'p,·\1 a.pJ'l'Opl:I-,•,tt'ons, to The Ter- not vely muc ·o scream a o ' concemed, was contained m a \ • Or maybe it is-we plead a lack of He pushes off. No spectacle is recent letter from the Gaten,. ... I'nCe Council and the Be€1' Fund, need little information ~·~~~4~~-lHn-on is caused to lose his burg 1\'luseum .in Malnz, which C '1 d And proceed to a consideration, saluted her with the words \'l'o explanation. The Tern\Ce OlU1Cl nee s t' foo-edl. Your MagnJficence.\ Of some less methodically neuro IC 1'1 t d ~lathes. Its members have not been provided people's subconscious. Co~~!~d~~.lla:pses He a .punc ure Prexy, are we laughing! 'tl tf't 'Th\ st for ·ach h•tbili And so we settle back on om: type- Wl l Pl'Opel' OU l S. \ CO' :,; ' · < • writer and our haunches Cohen asleep sinlw down through .. * * · nwnts will be large. but we feel, not exces- To a thought tbriE>f but painfuH of stafts of nuid. · s. R, Cohen. Now such n ma.jes- He needs no air, The internal wind S!Ve. stl\plies his tic drea-mah ,.. Since one of the pl'h>cipal student aciiv- \\'ant, but from the bE-nches he . Would protest at our ordinary in- is boo-ed. · Hies is attending gab-fests at the local bars, formal chatter. So just for the d '· t hell of it we'll give a chunk of Along the shor·c the mighty mil th ari.ses, Poetry always iouches it spot deep down within us. We found· the following tidbit in the Lehigh Brown and White, but they had copied It out of the Rutgefs Tar- gum. We pass it on: we feel that n gener<:l'l student fun ue se up terza rima. ,or the convenience o.f those men who find. themselves so frequently without the price of a !Jeer. And, after all, it is the student activities 1\·hich are well respected that we should sup- purL. CAU~E FOR. COMPLAINT The Athletic Department has not been putting on as good athletic shows this season as it has in other yeaTs. There has been a laxness about the di:;cipline of Alexandel' Field which has ttuned the diamond and the track into a general n1eeting place. There are no restl'ictions on the number of little boys who sticl< their heads out along the first base line nor the number of college students who nm across the track in o1·der to get a better view of a race. Cohen a~lccp, his respi.t a \ion puns. , He snorts at I est, and uncoordi- nated, Undignified tlH' mighty carcass stirs. Cohen asleep, his thought is unrelated, 'Or less than usual) and the balloon Of self-esteem b just a bit deflated. Cohen asleep, touched by the watery moon, Dreams in the night of scenes and deeds aquatic, Of swimming pools and test; nnd and coming June. Cohen aslec'P is held with \enol' static. He will be oveiloo\{ed at gradua- tion. He !mows he should have been more diploma-tie, Cohen asleep is sPized with pulpi· tlltion. The waters spnad before him ttme feet dePp. He reads along thP edgt'S the no- tation But Cohen cannot l'ise. FoUl' feet or water Is ,only just enough, but it suffices. ·Collen aBleep has undetgone o;r>n- change, l'he I·esult, not l'ich, is mercifully strange. * * * Now there is anothl'r feat·ure of the local scene, Namely, Professor Greene, Who stirs now and then in his slumber- Hen·ce this little number. .r tllinlt I shall not waite up yet; My rest is much too pleasant. Wily should I swiftly move and sweat Behaving like a peasant'? Let other people go their· rounds In peripatetic curve. I lteep myself within my ·bounds, Unener·getic reserve. And although my feet are wet, I think I shall not waite up yet. * • • And now we have filled up enough space and our joints are begin- ning to creek. So we shall go away to dinner, and maybe go on with this next weelt. F. H. ' The unde1·graduate mtmag-erial staff hns . not ueen as well commandeered as it could g10up of recent heroes and hero- . t.e. 'l'het·e 'll'e no pt·ovisions made before-~~ CINE M A \I ines of the celluloid, who are not u • heroic, but good natured mental · hand for keeping trespassers off the play- By JOHN B. DOWLING cases. not se!'ious, but certainly not 1omantic. There was Oiwin in ing fields. The handling of crowds is slip- I!.;;;============~ Tluee Men On A HoTbe, D1>ris No- ::;hod. Ian in Top Of The Town and now Wttlw l:p Anti Live !Fox; Proc- Haley. And that along with the ex- Evidently there seems to be no stimulus tor's) preset·vcs on film the famous cellent use of story, acto1·s and . t U · t radio battle of Winchell versus music in Wake Up And Li'Ve is, I for keeping athletiC contes S at ll!Oll a - Bernie with sueh good humor and think, a healthy sign. tractive. There always seems to be a financial foolery, that what might have been To add the carping note, the n dull rehash emerges as top-flight d · · f w 1 u \'-d U · }lLSt You ond 1 Alone \Ve are sitting tonight in the moonlight Just you and I alone And the flickering firelight falls so!tly On a beauty that is all your own. It gleams where smooth sholders, your round Frem a graceful nl'ck sweep down; And I wculd not exchange your beauty For the best dressed belle in town. I base drawn the curtains closer, And f1·om my easy chair I stretch my hand toward you, Just to feel that you are there. And your breath is laden with perfume As my thoughts ar·ound twine, And I feel my pulse beating As your spirit is mingled mine. you with All the woes of the wo!'ld have vanished, When I've pressed my lips to yours, Just to feel your life-blood flow- ing To me is the ·best of cures. You have given me inspiration lt'or many a soulful rhyme, You're the finest old Scotch Wh!skey I've drunk in a long, long timE'. * * • ~tll'plus >lt tl1e e11d of the '·'e\l\, ·•nd possibly 1 w 1 e Jtrng 0 ate P l\'il• ve rs ~ • \ ~ u entertainment and r·evea s a ter not too expert. Some of the sing- that is all that counts. But a little more con- Winchell as a veiy passable actor ing scenes should have been cross- f d 1 , ld r. while it affords Jack Haley the cut more frequently to show sim- Itohert A. SnnJ Definitions are always in order. Herbert 0. Fox A::;sistants R Gilmore (;. Hoffman sideration or or er mess wou ue Vel'Y best role he r.as had in sevewl ultaneous action in another loca- \\ ·elC011le. It is 011€ thimr to run athletic con- years of ciner,m misadventure. lion. These, from the Massachusetts Col- legian, Massachusetts State: L. Pelletier .l. IUfenhars - All too often has this column tests fol~ a profit and another to run them had cause to complain ove1· the plight of film musical comedies ----0>--- IN THE MAIL A professor-Casts imitation pearls before real swine. ------- Tuesday, May 11, 1n37 for the development and entertainment of that weave a thin unbelievable the students. success story among the mazes of stupendous. production numbers The Warner Brothers were the KRUESI EXPI..AINS APPROPRIATIONS first to discover the possibilities of To The Editor: that situation and they played it A brief discussion regarding the to extinction from 42nd Street on Tax Committee hearing l11.st Wed- to the present when they still have nesday night: great faith in it. My point was that n() college Now if we wet·e the Student Tax Commit- teen the next i'ew weeks we'd approve a budget which would t·ead something like And at Other Colleges ••• \-Yinchell-Bernie Feud function should be so impo1•tant t:hat it should receive almost one- Waite Up And Live pleasantly third the total student tax. Consid- departs from such strict formula, thi.s: Adelphic and Ph ilomalht'an Societies ............... $1 ,liG7.fl2 Eta Kappa Nu . . . . . • . . 123.71 Students of electrical engineering, hotel manage- ment, and floriculture VJill be given a chance at practical application of their studies when COR- NELL UN1VERSI1'Y plays host to 500 preparatory :>chool students this weekend. concerns itself with the \Vinchell- ering the investment the student Bernie feud as backgi ound to the body has in the Concor-dy, I feel the retum is very small. efforts of the .slightly chuckle- A proposed method of reducing headed Mr. Haley to conquer his ihis expense would be lo reduce microphone fight. What music does your appropriation. And the way occur is so necessarily a pa1t of for you to meet this cut would be t~e story that neve~· .does the au- to cut the sheet down to a. six page d1ence get th~t ternfrc le~down o_f 1 weekly. You never have enough seerng the smgei and his confl- 1 news to fill on·e paper. The value of dent arch _themselves through a 'the paper as a college record Is no l~t of meamngless blatantly subtle better than that of the local papers. di_alogue, that le~ds up to the task And its value would not be changed of ma~mg musrc. No, Walro Up by being a weekly instead of a bi- ;'Wd LI,ve _~ever t~:ows the tu~e weekly. l\Iudel League of Nations (Combined) ......•. Senior Class ..... . 3,700.01 .21 .32 The Idol .•............•.. Terrace Council •...... _ .... ·1.200.D9 Glee Club . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . ;u:; The Concordiensis • 1.10 Latin Prize Winner fl.lJU't garnet .. , .•........ _ . . . • 1.01 Beer Fund (fur local puiJ:;) .. 1),000.00 s. s. s. c ... ' ... ' ........ . l,OUU.IJO 'I' F'or armed gum·d. The appropriations for the above would he based upon the belief that they will satisl','.: even the most ::;keptical of student tax P\Y- er:s. There is no need to bn,;e tlwm upon the extent of student interest in them. Just so long as they provide Union College with stu- dent activities which me l'espected in the in- tercollegiate world, the ltppmpriations are justified. The Concordiensi,.;, as is pointed out in the mail column today, should not receive as much as it does, despite the fact that it is the' only extra-curricular activity in w h ieh a student does continuous intensive work throughout his college career. .. * A new hall of residence will be constructed at BRYN MAWR in order to increase the enrollment ~5~;, Fre.nch and Ger:ma.n students are to be housed m former campus fac.ulty houses where the ·conver~ ~ation will be principally in that language in which 1 hP studPnts are majoring. Undcrgra<luates of BROWN UNIVERSITY are making an aerial survey of land forms produced by rive! s, wavE's, al'\d cune.nts, and by Ice Age glaciers in NPw England. • .. Midyeai' examinationB have been dropped at VAS- SAR COLLEGE to bring greater continuity in the academic schedule. Rec-·ommendations for the term- ination of probatio.n of the three upper classes were also ado•pted, m gratis, rt s a!wa~s a case of, 1f If the revenue from this year's the so~g wer en t . sung. the prctur e advertising were applied to next couldn t go on wrthout. a bad gap. year's budget, instead of being dis- The Phantom Smger tributed among members of the The device upon which the film staff, the amount of money you depends, the comedy situation that' would need from the student fund gives the whole thing point, is the would be less. If members of the accident of Haley singing into Glee Club, or Prom Committee are what he thinlts is a dead milte not allowed to sha1e ihei.l' surplus, The Institute of Catholic Educational Res<'ai·ch of and being broadcast as a part of but must turn it bac.lt in either to FORDHAM UNIVERSITY recently l'eported pub lie· Ben Bel nie's program. He doesn't the committee, or let It go towards ><chool funds are givin?; aid to 140 catholic Schools. know, and no one else knows, that the next year's allowance, why he is the Phantom Singer. The should the Concordy board be al- l e::;t ·Of the picture points the good lowed to share the revenue from its comedy of the mix-up, with Bernie advertising? • The students in the play production course at thP COLLEGE OF NEW ROCHELLE will present fiVP nne-act plays this. wee.k as the result of a term's work. * Shakes·peoarp's \The '['empPst\ will be present~d at PRINCETON UNIVERSITY this weekend by the Princeton \Theatre Jn·tlme\ and the Theatre Arts DPpartment of the Finch School in New York City. * • With \Sic Semper Rooney\ as their battle cry, the self-dubbed \The Exile Actors Guild\ of WILLIAMS COLLEGE, self-styled excellent thespians who had \Waiting for Lefty,\ ln.dicated that it would produce been refused roles in the Cap and Bells production of ·the play at the same time as the senior group. This and Winchell and the rest of the The questionaire issued to deter- country looking for the Phar1tom, mine student interest in y-our paper while he still unwittingly broad- is unfair. In particular,. the ques- casts with the help of Alice Faye tion, \Do you read the Concordy ... who has discovered his real !dent- always . , . seldom , .. never.\ From ity. your point of view that is great, be- Winchell acts himself to perfec· cause by manipulating the results tion. Both he and Bernie are not you can say that so marry students burdened with long parts, but are answered they 1·ead the Concordy. written as U:.emselves and perform Gra)lted. But do that same number with naturalness and effectiveness, of students feel they a.1·e getting . It is the case of Jaclt Haley that their- money's worth from it? No · the real surprise appears. He was one can answer this question with a top musical star in New York never. If you are forced to pay for : when he was drafted to Hollywood the paper, curiosity forbids your : and there acted in a series of un- not looking at it. ·fortunate pictur~s that gave him I was not arguing that $3.50 a , President Fredericlt <::, Ferry tendered his resigna- no real chance to display his com- person is too much to .pay for the : tion as head of HAMILTON COLLEGE for the past bination of talents in dancing, sheet. But now that it is mentioned, 20 years, to become effective February 1, 1938, on his singing and comedy, I do thinlt more than five cents an seventieth birthday. He agreed to continue in his Tailor Made Role issue is too much. .Alumni and · may lead to a modern collegiate war. * official capacity if there were no other man avail- In Waite Up And Live Haley has other people can subscribe to it for able at that time. a role tailor made. As a slightly less than that, $3 beihg the rate I simple vaudeville actor of talent believe. South Section of South CGllege, the orpllan of the dormitot·y system, s-hould receive some compensation this year, especially since its intramural athletic teanu1 need subsidizing. We point with pride to our mag-nanimous Fmrn the surplus that has been accumulated from consideration of the Model League of Na- razz dazzes, TRINITY\ COLLEGE honored the new members of Boulder Society and other honorary trying to conquer his fear of the What I have tried to say was that microphone he moves through the you are getting too much money plot with ease and dexterity. And for your needs. Incidentally he joins a growing tions and the Adelphic and Philomathean , groups with a free dance. No stags allowed. John ICmesi, '37 A dean-Not smart enough to he a ·professor but too smart to be a college president. A president--Not good enough to be a professor but too good to be a dean. A ttustE'e-Dne who has nightmares about endowments. And add our own: An Honorary Fellow-One of those nightmares. HAVE YOU A COLUMN? • A FEATURE STORY? • A REVIEW? • A NEWS TIP? • A LETTER TO THE EDITOR? • Why Not Bring It To IDqt ornurnrbttttsia Silliman Hall-2nd Floor North PHONE 4-0133 G F F W: Ga I A star 7 d an da·y the two sity of J row to for pla~ agai hon~ the t!:. e~ Fie! gam and that Ll and han< char The ably ious hear Unic Hop boyE w gam son. ping Hav lost Spri at t Shar OthE little Dutc Ur ning win ing Unio age Orar mOl'! son final pitct net 1 out • Wi twee on Unio enth the bunt the ' his c pitcb and good led ~ out< Su: Joh name Ca!~Jn Clish: Hartl Alper M1lla• Zave1 Bra~·~ Hubir Tot Unl 'rhom Myel': Brow WyliE .ToneR }!iller Marr~ Ama2 Yunlc Wate T<.t .ThonA Union Tw• Sacril Xaver Johns ters Bl'ay• Huszl Fro M~ Th golf' 'beat to 0 Cour: year! score even1 man Be1 Fullt (U) and feate 6; LE !Ml Lo1 Fulk Mele' Sage,

nd ar- the alls wn. in you with have to flow- ion catch Col- tion Ugh has of North THE CONCO-RDlENSIS, TUESDAY, MAY 11, 1937 Page Three Varsity Nine at Williams Tomorrow; Senators Here Friday Game With Purple Figure Prominently First in Series Of. . . • zn Track Win Freshman Baseball 'Team Beaten, 9-6 I-WORTS CAI.ENDAR To-morrow Four Away Games Waters to Toe Rubber Against Mountaineers; Johnson, Haskell on Reserve Johns Hopkins Beaten Garnet Scores 7-6 Win Over Baltimore Team Following Defeat by Symcuse Photo\ l)\\ llnwat·cl !t:l\ill'tl \4£1 It may look ·as though Joe Annese is beating out Vibert Fryer in one of last Saturday's races, but it's just a composite sl10t of Fryer finishing fii•st in the 440 and Annese winning the 880. ------ ~>------------------------------- Defeated by Albany High; Return Game Away Tomorrow Wednesday afternoon the Fresh- man baseball team will tz·elt to Al- bany where they will meet the Al- -bany High nine in a return game . Coach Arthur Lawrence will use either Chet Robinson or Bob Han- son on the mound. Hanson has yet to pitch but he is developing rap- idly, and this may be his fhst as- signment. Isabella who has been out of the line up for the pa.st two games because of a bad ankle will ' probably see service. The rest ·of the line u.p w!H remain as before with the exception that Fred Pa- ti·ies will move to right field to take the place of Paul Santora. The Freshman baseball team lost its second game in as many starts Varsity Bast>.ball, \Villiams Col· lege, Williamstown, Masti. Freshman Baseball, Albany High School, Albany. Var,ity Tenniti, Syt·aC'use· Uni· versity, .Syracuse. Varsity Golf, Williams CollegE', Mohawk Golb Club. Friday Varsity Tennis, Hamilton Col· legt>, Union Cour·t.s. Varsity La.ct·ossP, Tufts CollegP. Libra1·y Field. Baseball, Union vs. Albany Sen- a tors, Alexander Field. Stickmen to Meet Tufts Here Friday Edged. Out 7 to 6 in Overtime Period in Tussle With Dartmouth Saturday After winding up its initial home stand last weeltend with an 11 to 7 defeat by Syracuse Fziday a,nd an 11-inning 7 to 6 victozy Satur- day over Johns Hopkins, making the season's .record two losses and two wins, the Union College var- sity baseball team opens a series of four away games when tomoz·- row il journeys to Williamstown to face the Purple nine. Except for an exhibition game to ibe Sweeping all but three filst Lehrer <Vl. Denton n::>. Time- played here Ftiday at 5:00 p. m. places, the Union tl acl{ team ~ :44.9. yesterday afternoon when it Coach Harkness' vaz·sity lacrosse dropped a heart breaker to the AI- team will meet the Tufts College bany High School nine, 9 to 6. Trail- team Gn Friday on Library Field, ing by three runs when the ninth with the Dutchmen out to assuage began the Albany boys put on a the sting of the defeat suffered at rally that did not end until they the hands of Dartmouth on last had pushed six runs across the Saturday. This will be the first plate. time in several years that Union against the Albany Senators, no tscorebd itds eflevt~nthVconsecutive vic- Two-ml!1' run- Won by Hawkes home contests a!'e scheduled .flor ~\Y Y e ea m~ ermont Univer- <UJ, Lamoon <Vl, Wells <U). Time the baseballers until May 29 , whenF sz.ty 89-37 Satur ay on Alexander -lO:lO 2 . tl: ey face R. P. r. on Alexander zeld. Field. In the interim of two weeks Paced by Joe Annese, Tiller Shugg, and Jack Glen, Union games with Hamilton, Rochester drCJ.pped only the low hurdles, dis- and West Point ate scheduled in. that order. cus and javelin. Vibert Fryer con- tinued !':is unbeaten ·record when Watez•s Wlll Start he J·aced to victory in the 440. Lloyd Waters, Elmet' Johnson, Giant Smith again won the high and George Haskell will be on hur·dles, and lost a sme fit·st in hand tomonow at Williams to dis- the lows when, leading, he !l·ipped charge of the Union mound duties. over the last hu1dle, The test of the lineup will pzob- Annese took both the half and ably remain the same as in prev- one mile runs, and again Bill ious games. Dulre Nelson was Hawkes ran away from the field heartened somewhat Satutday by in his two mile specialty. Jim Union's showing against Johns Smith tied for fii·st in the high Hopkins but as he puts it ''tLe jump, after tht',eatening to brealr boys need plenty of ptactice,\ the college record. Sherm Hilst Williams has played one mot•e outjumped a teammate, George game than Union so far this sea- Doyle, to take the bz:oad jump, and son, winning two games and drop- Renny Pomatti vaulted 11 ft. (} in. ping three. It scored victories over to clinch the pole vault. Haverfot·d and Colby Colleges and In the field events, Ross and La- lost to Yale, Mass. ·state, and Plant of Vermont won the discus Springfield. The Purple's big boy and javelin respectively. However, at the plate seems to be Captain. Union swept the shot, thus evening Shanty Fuchs, slugging pitcher .. things, as Gatchell, Kreusi, and Otherwise Williams seems to have Chapin scored in that order. little more batting power than th(> The Union squad performed the Dutc'hmen. last .time this season on its home Weekend Games field, foz· the two remaining meets, Until the end of the sixth in- with R. P. I. and Haverford, will ning the Garnet seemed due for a take place on the opponents' win against Syzacuse Friday. Lead- tracks. ing 7 to 6 in the sixth frame, the Summaries: Union team held its scant advant- 120-yard high hurdles- Won by age until a four run rally put the Smith tU), Day <U), Rice (V). Ot angemen ahead 10 to 6. One Time-0:16.4. One-half mile run- Won by An nese <Ul, Gammons tUl, Sweet 1 U>. Time-2:07.2. 220-ya.rd low hm·dles - Won by Trud~au <Vl, Smith (lfl, Den·kk I Ul. Time--0:26.3. 440-yard 1un-Won by Fryer <t:l, Shugg \Ul, MacmHlan tVJ. Time- 0:53 8, 220-yard dash -· Won by Shugg JUl. Glen <U), Macmillan <Vl. Time- 0:23.7. Pol~ vault·- Won by Pomatti < Ul. Myers tUl. and Pratt <Vl, tied for $econd and third places. Height- 11 feet. 6 inches. Shot put- Won by Gatchell < U\, Kreusi tU) and Chapin <Ul. Dis- tance-- 38 ft. 4 in. Discus throw-Won by Ross <Vl, Krcusi (U), Suitor <VJ. Distnce- 129 ft. 11 in. High jump- Smith tUl and Tm- :hmu 1 V) tied for first place; Ken- nedy <Vl and Suitor CV). tied for second. Height-5 ft. 10% in. Broad jump-Won by Hirst <Ul. Doyle <Ul, Trudeau <Vl. Distance -20 ft. 11112 inches. Javelin throw- Won by La Plant <Vl, Budzina <V). Bloom CU). Distance-162 ft. Lanky AI Mould started for the has met Tufts and although rela- Frosh and pitched eight and one tively little is known of the New third -innings. He was relieved by England team this year, based on Doc Maines in the ninth who was its showings in previous cam- the losing pitcher. paigns, the game should be inter- Last Saturday the Frosh travel- esting. led to Green Mountain Junior Col- Union's hopes for an undefeated lege for a return game, which they season were drowned In the mud ;ost 9 to 5. Chet Robinson, twirled of the Dartmouth Field on last for the yearlings Saturday. He was Saturday, as the Dutchmen driven from the box in the fifth and emerged on the short end of a 7-6 was relieved by Doc Maines. score. It was, necessary, however, Albany Ul~h- A I! R n PO A E for the Indians to go into an over- Oreenhouse, 2h ...... 4 o 1 1 1 2 time period to assure the victory. Vine~nt, If ........... 6 :; :: 11 o o For a while it looked as though Aviza, rf ............ 6 1 2 2 0 0 the Union record would remain in- ~'l.,yer, l.!J • • • • .. • • • • • 5 1 2 10 0 0 tact, and with less than two min- Campbell, ss ......... 1 0 0 0 1 0 Bauer, cf .•.....•.... :l o u o u o utes to .play in tl:e fourth period, l'raigie. 31J ••.•.••.••. :! 1 to 11 1 o the Union squad was leading by a nerarll. \ ............ 5 1 2 11 1 1 6-5 margin. Shortly afterward, how- Wade, P · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ;; 1 5 0 3 ° ever, Harris of the home team Schafer, ss ••.• , ••..•. 2 I o 2 2 I h Reiner·, 3b ............ o o n o o o slipped a s ot into the nets tying Falzos, 2b .••.•..••..• 1 o 0 2 2 o the score and necessitating an I<emmer, rf .......... o 1 o o 0 0 over-time period. In the over-time Totals ...... · ....... 41 9 15 27 11 4 period a goal by Reeve gave the l'nlon- AR R If PO A E Ilt·oekner. 11> .....••..• 4 1 2 10 o 1 Hanover team a 7-6 advantage Tanner, 2h .....••... ;; 1 0 o 4· 0 which they retained throughout the llrosso, tr ..•......... 5 I 2 1 0 1 'l'emainder of the contest. Feldman, d .. · ...... · 4 1 3 1 0 0 Joe Paul continued his splendid Patrie, ss · · • · · · · · · · · · 5 1 0 1 2 2 playing, and netted three of the Santora. rf ........... 4 o 0 2 0 o Hanson, So .......... 4 o o 2 o o Union goals in the rough, ragged Palmer, c ............ 4 0 1 10 0 1 game sprinkled throughout with Mould, P .. · .... , .... · 4 1 I 0 4 0 frequent penalties. Jack Smith's i.\lainer, P · · • · · · · · • · · · 0 0 0 () 0 0 reputation preceded him to Dart-· Totals .............. 39 6 9 27 10 5 Albany ................ 001 101 006--9 mouth, Jack finding himself sur- t:nion .................. 010 032 001)-..6 rounded by a retinue of Dartmouth more tally In the ninth by Tbomp- 100-yard dash-Won by Glen <Ul, -----------------------------------------·-·· ------------------------------ players for the length of the game. Even so, Jack managed to break through and score one of thE> Union goals. Doug Blue and Hal Vande- car contributed one each to the Union total. The Dutchman's de- fense was wealiened when Bill Reynolds was f<>rced to leave the game because of an injury sus- tained in a scramble for the ball. son of Syracuse made the score Hirst 'U), Macmillan (V). Time- 1 1 final at 11 to 7. Colby Jones, Union 0·10.7. } N T H JE Q H Q WE R § pitcher, made out best for the Gat·- Mile run-Won by Annese <U), I 1:5' ~~l~t ~~~/!~;.~;~i·tit:: ~~=e h~:: INTRAMURALS II l_ _______________ ~:-~~~~:~_::: _______________ _. tween Union and Johns Hopkins ,- ~ on. Saturday tied at six all with Commendable, to be sure, is the spirit which prompts coaches Union coming to bat in the elev- Softball ~itchman, Nelson and Wyatt to bellow exhortations ana directions enth inning, Dave Miller clinched .rom the sidelines to Union players on the field. We're all for their the contest for the Dutchmen by Games postponed from April 27, 5iving advice; that's what they're there for. But when thP game has bunting Frankie Myers home for played will be played at 7:00 P· m. oegun the players should be allowed to play it themselves, free f;·.::.;;; the winning tally. Waters, making on May 12. oench annoyances. If the coach can not suffi-ciently ·drill his men in ti>e his debut of the year as a Union Kappa Alpha vs. South College. arts of a sport in pre-game ptactice sessions and intermissions between pitcher, struck out seven batters Kappa Sigma vs. Phi Gamma periods, he certainly cannot expect his belated instructions to do much and backed up his twirling with Delta. ;;ood after the starting whistle is blown. Then if at any time playe,, good work in the fie1d. Thomas Phi Delta Theta vs. Chi psi. are on their own. led Union batters with four hits out of five times at the plate. Summaries: Johns·Hopltins- All !t H PO A E namonofsky, 3h .•..• 2 3 o 4 6 2 C:u·per·. cf ...........• ·! 1 0 0 0 1 L'lisbam, Ib .......... 6 0 1 12 0 1 Hartkey, ss .......... 4 1 3 2 ~ 0 Alperstein, 2b ....... 4 0 0 1 2 0 Mtllan, If ....... ,. ... 5 I 3 2 0 l ~~~~~~~~~:· ~-r. :: ::: ::: ~ ~ i ~ g ~ Hubinger, p .......... 4 n 1 0 0 0 Totals ....... ,. ...... 37 0 10 30 11 6 Union- AB ll H PO A 1<: 'Phomas, cf . . . . . . . . . 5 0 4 3 1 0 ~iyers. 2b .. .. .. .. .. .. 6 ~ ~ 1 r } ~ Brown, lll ........... 4 Wylie, rf ............ l 0 0 0 0 0 .Jones, rf ............ r. 0 2 2 0 0 :\!lller. .,, ............ G 10 ~ ~ ~ A Mana, 3b ............ 5 0 0 2 0 0 Amazon, If .•........ 5 Yunlch, c ............ 4 2 3 8 0 1 Watero<, p ........... 4 1 0 0 4 1 TLtals ........ ~ ..... 45 li 14 33 2.7 3 .fhons-Hopkins ....... 103 000 110 00-G Union coollege ....... 000 210 120 01-7 Two-base hits-Hartkey, Brown. Sacrifice hits-Carper, Roma~ofsky. Zavertnick J.eft on bn~es-llnton 12. Johns-Iiopkins 8. Strudt out-By Wa ters 7 Rublnger 4. Passed bal.ls- Hl·ayshaw, Yunich. Urnpires-Connely, RuRzkowslry. Results May 7--Neutrals 3, Sigma Phi 2; Sigma Phi 10, Neutrals 5; Beta Theta :Pi ll, ~appa Sigma 9; Phi Delta Theta 20, Phi Sigma Kappa 12. May 10--Kappa Sigma 11, Phi Sigma f>elta 5; Kappa Nu 23, Neu- ti·als 1 ; Phi Delta Theta 6, Psi Upsilon 4; Kappa Alpha 18, Alpha Delta Phi 2. Tennis and Horseshoes The second round of the spring tennis and horseshoe tournaments must be completed on or before Wednesday, May 12th. All contest- ants must arrange their own matches. Tracl( Meet The Intramural spring traclt meet will be held on Tuesday and Wednesday, May 11th and 12th. The events will start promptly at 4 :3(} p. m., rain or shine. ----a--- • • The most interesting· of all the tennis matches played last Wednes· day when Colgate tool{ our· varsity 7 to 2 was, in our opinion, that unofficial one between the two coaches, the Ga.r!J.et's 'Bill Aydelotte and \'erl'ine Rocltafellow of the Maroon. It was interesti!Uf becausP the two men used to play together. So well did they •play together, in fact, that in 1928 and again in 1930 they were national do-ubles champions. That match the other day, we understand, ended in a draw-one set apiece. • * .. That exhibition game Friday between our varsity and the Albany Senators should make good watching. We have often wondered how much better <or worse) a poor <Albany is hovering- at the cellar-door of the New York-Penn League at present) minor league team is than a college nine. At all events the contest will be a fitting start to Prom Weekend. However you may prefer Tom Mix's Circus which. is in town that day * • * The big five to date in varsity baseball hitting, according to fig- ).lrcs given us by Jerry Smith, run in this order: in four· games played so fat• Ernie Brown, fzrst baseman, leads the team with a batting average of .467, closely followed by Colby Jones, pitcher, with .462. Billy Thomas, center fielder with .412, Yunich, catcher, with an even .100, and Marra, shortstop with .278 complete the list. * • * Summaries: Union Dartmouth G Burd ............... Hastings P Potts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Karp CP Liffiton . . . . . . . . . . . . Dawkins lD Reynolds ............. Shafer 2.D V. Smith .............. Reeve C FraEer ..•............. Molloy 2A Vandecar .......... Catherine lA Paul ...•... , . . . . . . . Merriam IH J. Smith ........... Pickering OH Blue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Harris Spares: Union-Baker, Kennedy. Dartmouth-·Haskinson, Fuller. Scoring: First period - Merriam <D) 0:28; Paul (U) 13:52. Second period-Paul <Ul 1:24 and 2:58; Pickering <D) 12:47. Third period-Reeve <Dl 1:50; J. Smith (U) 9:22; Pickering CD) 12:28. Fourth period - Merriam <Dl 5:49; Blue <U) 7;00; Vandecar (U) 9:08; Merriam (D) 13:16. Fifth period-Reeve <D) 5:18. 633 State St. Thru to N ott Terrace Tennis Team Plays SyracuseTomorrow Joumeys Upstate for Match With Ot·ange; Hamilton Here Friday Union's vat·sitv tennis team, crippled thmug.h the ineligibility of Bob Carr and Doug Murphy, will travel to Syracuse tomorrow to face the Orange netmen. The first Syracuse match scheduled this sea- son cancelled bee a use of wet courts, the Garnet's chances against the Up-s<ate team tomor- l'OW are slim indeed, but Union will do everyt11ing in its power to garner its first win. On Friday the squad wilt be host to the Hamilton team. The Con- tinentals were recently beaten by Colgate 8 to 1, but defeated a Btrong Har·twick team 7 to 2 last Thursday. The M. L T. netmen handed the Union cow:tsters a decisive 7 to 2 spanking on the Dutchmen's courts last Saturday. Dwore was largely responsible for Union's scores, winning his singles match, and, paired with \Doc\ Orton in the doubles, defeating Stearns and Babcock O·f the Techmen. Fritz Hawley played a fine brand of ten- nis, only to lose his singles at the hands of Lytle. ---o--- Frosh N etmen Trounce Mohawk School; 2nd '\Vin Union's unofficial freshman ten- nis team scored its .second win this seru:;on yesterday beating the Mo- hawk School netmen 5 to 2 in a match played on the Union courts. The yearlings made a clean sweep of all the singles matches but lost both doubles. A Fetuz·n encounter with Mohawk School has been ar- ranged for next Monday. Yesterday•s contest had been postponed from last Thursday, when rain pr·evented the match scheduled then. Previously the freshman team, which is coached by Mr. H. Laurence Achilles, was victorious over Pawling School, 1 to 3. IntereTted in Schenectady Inttrested in UNION MAURICE II. GRAUBART The Jay Stttet hweler 166 JAY STREET Watch a'rzd Jewelry Repairing a Specialty PARKER PENS Need Money? LOANS ISSUED ON Clothing Diamonds Watches - Jewelry Musical Instruments Str-iet Privacy - \Joe Cohen\s\ AMERICAN LOAN 135 Centre St. TEL. - 6-97b2 - TEL. PHONE 6-3456 ---01---- Frosh Golfers Win First Match; Beat Mohawk 6-0 Alexander Hamilton Drubs Lacmss~ Team The Kappa Nu softball team, with six victories and no losses to its credit, is certain •to cUnch the Eastern League title in the intra- murals. At this stage of the competition Phi Gamma Delta and Phi Delta Th.eta are leading their respective leagues while Delta Upsilon and Rappa Alpha are tied for number one spot in the Western League. The tournament is well over half finished and these teams will prob- ably figure prominently when it's time for playoffs. EARN REAL MONEY THIS SUMMER The newly m·ganized freshman golf squad, playing its initial match, beat the Mohawk School team 6 to 0 on the Mohawk Golf Club Course Saturday afternoon. The yearlings turned in some very lOIW scores to sweep all the individual events and foursomes of the four man .match. The summaries: Ben Lord (U) d.efeated James Fulk ( i.v1) 8 and 6.; Herb Watson (U) defeated Bob Appleton <M) 4 and 3; Frank Melewicz (U) de- feated Roland Thqmpson. ( Ml 7 and 6; Leo Minkin (U) defeated Sagee <M> 6 and 5. Lord and Watson (Ul defeated Fulk and Appleton (M) 7 and 6; Melewicz and Minkin (U) defeated Sagee and Thompson (M), The Union College freshman la- crosse team suffered its second de- feat of the season on Library Field Saturday afternoon, losing to a powerful Alexander Hamilton High School team of Brooldyn by the score of 16 to 2. · Early in the first period of the game England and Mayersohn of Union scored the freshmen's only two goals, the Brooklyn team mon- opolizing the tallying from then on, netting 16 goals throughout the four periods. On Saturday the~yearling ten will take on the R. P. I. freshmen on Library Field in the first of . two games recently arranged between the two schools. The second will be played on May- 20 at Troy, GAZETTE PRESS Printers Easy - Pleasant - Certain FULL-'riME or SPARE-TIME NO INVESTMENT 0 Write Today for Details (please include your home address) D. R. GOURLEY, President AUSTIN LIME COB.PORATlON 68 South Water Market, Chicago, Ill.

Page Four Discuss Activities With Local Alumni T:HE CONCORD1iENSIS, TUESDAY, MAY 11.,1937 Robinson, Hafner Succeed Rose Bushes Rival Wyatt 'Linksmen Meet Williams: Moulton as Bell Ringers In Enthusiasm for Snow In Home Game Tomorrow CALENDAR Tonight 6::30· p. tn.-Glee Club, Ann~:~al Meeting, Hale House. Student Opinion Given Upon 'Tax A ppropriatio11.: (Continued from Page 1) Two freshmen have won the honor of a daily workout for next Larrabee Makes Principal :year. A bit more fortunate than the Apparently Freddy Wyatt i.s not the only form of life on the campus that Hkes snow, During the past winteL' ~50 rosehushe~ in the rose ga1·den died· because there was not suf· ficient snow to keep them warm. 8:{)0 p. m.-Civil Service Re- form League Meeting, Old Chapel. Fresh from its 5 to 1 win over M-iddlebury last week, the Union Golf team wiH meet the Williams College linksmen in a six man· Wednesday ' ever, alumni associations pay a lit· Ue more for the c!)lb's appear- match ·t0morrow on the Mohawk 10:00 a. m.-'Daily Assembly, ances. d t · t·est of the freshman class who Address; Stu en s have t oexercise in the gym twice Also Speak a week and pay a ten dollar fee for the privilege, these two will receive Golf Course. Williams has had two' Speaker, N. G. L. Pieper, Spe- matches .so fat' this season, not in- cia! .Agent in charge of inves- cluding the !'OUnd robin with Har- -ligation, Buffalo. :vard, Dartmouth, and Brown play- Thl.U'sday .ed last weekend, and lost them '1.0:1)0 a. m. -Daily Assembly, \It's the cheapest entertainment . yoli can. get ·anywhere. If they ··staged ·a beer party, they'd have to 'pay for the beeP. :rf they staged a dance, -they'd have to pay for the orchestra. But the student ·body un· derwrites the deficits on what Alumni Associations won't pay. It isn't, as the phrase goes, exac.tly \cricket.\ M:onday, May 10.-Members .of the Schenectady Alumni Associa- tion at their meeting tonight in Hale House heard various memc J:>ers of the faculty and student body discuss academic and extra· curriculu.1· activities. Among the principal topics discussed were in· te!'collegiate roundtables, the ad- vancement of music appreciation on the campus, intercollegiate spo.rts, the Mountebanlt~, The Concordten· sis, the News Bureau. Fred Fish, pnsident of the . as· sociation presided at the meetmg. Ferd Wyatt acted as toastmaster. A humerou~ touch. was added to t11e meeting by the toastmaster·'s being provided with a stop watch and gong to stop long-winded sj>eakers. Several received \the gong\ for running over· theil' allot- ted four minutes. Dowling Talks Overtime fifty dollars for their tL'ouble. But thei·r wo1·k requites a knowledge of mu~ic as well as a strong· ar·m. They are Chester Robinson and Everett Hafner, who were chosen after a t1·yout yesterday noon to bP the carillon ringe1 s for next yeat·, Robinson will be the head ringer, as he wao; adjudl'.ed first in the competition , The administration was facNl with a dilemma with the gmdua· tion of Edgar Moulton, who has rung the chimes for three years. The call for contestants brought out five students who practiced from time to time under Moulton's direction. Their worlt was climaxed Intercollegiate conferences on academic subjects were discussed by Professor· Harold A. Larrabee, wh(} stated that Union has partLC- ipated in such affairs this yeal' with Colgate, Amherst, Williams, today with the competition when they wete required to play a col- lege song of their own choosing and one of five hymns of e4.ual diffi· culty. The judges, Dt·. Elml't' A. Tidmarsh, and Professor Charles T. Male, Warren C. Taylor, and Orin J. FarraH, stood outside the chapel and felt it necessan· to hear a sec· ond trial. The contestant:<, identi· fled by number only were asked to play \As We Bind th<' LaUL·el\ and their f!ignat ure round, before a de· cision was reachE>d. The unsuccessful candidates wel <' Charles Guiles, Albert Knight, and Hamilton. The bushes. have :bren re- placed by the donor, Dr. 0. M. Du11ning of Auburn. :both. The Purple dropped its initial Speaker, Harold B. Aci(erman, contest with Cornell 6 to 3', and its J:r·., ·Chairman of the Junior -----o--- second with Bowdoin by the score Prom Committee. of 6 to 0. Friday NOTICES Union's team has n<Jt been defin- 'l.O:OO a. m.--DaHy Assembl·y, itely piclted. Captain Froelich wiU 'Organ Recital, Dr. Tidma1•sh. Conlm~nN'm~nt programs and\ probably he numbet· one man, with 8:30' p. m.-Mounte]lank Produc- NOTICE TO SENIORS ann<mncements are now ready fol' Geer, Brown·, and Maxwell certain lion, \Wind and the Rain.' distribution. Please .;ee Donald M. to play. Its a toss-up between Van-·· l:O: QO p. m.-jUNIOR PROM. Fen ton. committee chairman, at the derbilt, Wilson, Clark, and Field for ------------~---­ Delta Upsilan House on Wed11es- the two vemaining. positions. day ami Thun;day from 1:00 to 2:30 Fox Edits History Text o'clorlt. o Summer Schoot in Chemish·y' · \American Political and Social TUITION INSTALLMENT~ The final installment of tuition for the second semt>sler is due and· must be paid ·on Friday, May 1-1, at the .Comptroller's Office. A cha.rge of $2.CO will be made for all pay- ments made after May H. Any stu· dent whu cannot ma-ke payment due to tht> change in date b re· quested to make special arrange• ments beforehand. The Compt1·oller's Office will be open for the collection of tuition in- stallment~ un Fnday itom 8:30 to 11:-15 a. m. and from 1:00 to 4:45 p.m. ----0 ----·- Fox: ·:n Takes Chemistry Job WiU Be Presented on Campus' H:istory,\ a 772-page book .by Pro- fess()!' Hat,old Underwood Faulkner o:f Smith College hruo just been pub- lished as another volume of the Crofts American History Series of F. S. Crofts & Co. Pres-ident Dixon Ryan Fox is general editor of the series and in his foreword presents au effective method of teaching American history at the college Union will offer special summer· courses in chemistry this year, granting full year credits for the worl~. The courses, which will be- gin June 2'1. for a period of six to ten weeks, will be the equivalent of a f.ull year's work. level. ----o---- Noctnrnal Interlude Edgar Moulton '37, co-leadet: of the Glee Club, reviewed the stndes forward music appreciation has made hel'e under the instruction ot Dt·. Elmer .A. Tidmarsh. Philip Duchscherer. ______ o--- 'l'heodot·e Fox '37, has accepted . an a-ppointment as graduate assisl- Three courses will be offered; general chemistry, including quan- titative analysis; quantitative analysis and organic chemistry. Both men and women will be ad- mitted to the courses. For infor- mation concerning the course ap- plicants should contact Dr. Cha1les B. Hurd of the chemistl'y depattment. ----o--- J)anton's Book Adopted Monday night at 1:30 John Cullings '40, crept stealthily out of hi.s room in the Old Gym Dorm and down the stairs to apprehend some culprit who had been throwing .pebbles at his window. The villain having escaped, Cullins retut ned only to find that his room which is on the second floor, bad heen entered and the door locked from the inside. He then ven- tllred once again to the out of doors, clad only in his pajamas, and explored South College for a ladder. Returning with the ladder he entered his window and went to 'bed. Jack Dowling, president of the Mountebank's society, spoke on the founding and histotJ' of the mgan- ization. He mentioned the possi- bility of the Mountebanks becom· ing a separate dramatic organiza- tion, sevet·ing their connection as a student activity. The Concordiensis and News Bu- reau were di~cusseJ by Milton M. Enzer, director of the latter. He stres.;ed the need of publtcltY tut the college through the newspape1, Glee Cluh and other activitie~. The effectiveness uf the college puhlir- tty program wad dcmun\u·atPd by the fact that HHl pleo\ cllppmgs 1·elating tu Union have be~en 1<'- celved by the N~ws Bun·au \Vlthin u few months. try at Duke UnivE'rsity, it was an-' ('hemistry Tall<s I ant in the Department of Chemis- A series of talks and demonstra- nounced today by Dr. Edward A.· tion~ on \Chemical Education\ will Ellety, head of the department of feature the 197th meeting of thP chemistry. Fox, who ranks number Eastern New York Section of the I one in hi.,; clas~. was elected to Phi Amel'ican Chemical Society this Beta Kappa, national honorary fra- Saturday morning and aftet·noon at temity, in the fall elections. He is Russell Sage Collet;e in Troy. Since\ also a member of Sigma Xi, honor- this is also the last mePtin!'.' until a 1y scientific society. A gr·aduate September, the annual election of i of Albany High School. Fox is a officers will be held. ' major in mathematics and science. - --- 0 Emplo.)·ment (. 'hances Best in Seven Year~ i.::llllJhJ,Ycllll'llt pl '1:-;pf'rts nf t h 1:-1 ~t·a.t . .., t·ulit'ht' hladuatlng clas.-.PH (.Ue ull.lJ a }lttlt• li''\~ f::l\'Ot'flhlP than thu;:jt: uf tlll' El~~ rt ad\l:l1P~ anti ;,u!J~tantiully 1)1'11• ,. th:tn th ... lull<' 1~3ti clun.c:t•.·, ~·xpt-1 it·nCt 1 d Thl~ P\'1- UellCt..: uf cununut·ll ~·nl ployrnent un JHU\'Clnent 1~ n·vt·alt·d ltl :lnnnunrP- Juent ll'l:t\Utly of tl\t> n~~ult~ of H ~ut \t.'Y JUSt t·ont.plt·tt·d by InYf\'·:tnt'-' Syndicate, of Minn£-apolLt<. Engmcet·mg, 'l..>u,;ine~s adm.ini\tra- tiun, teaching and gene! al t>usineso classification\ are ot.fering employ· rnent in gn•atPHt volum~. ac<•otdin~ to J, R. Ridgway, pt'e$ident of In· vestors Syndicate, in announcing th<' results of the study. Lav.r, jour· nalism ant! inveHtmrnt banking alP near the foot of the list, he sa1d. These conclusions are ba~t>d upon analysis of questionnaires t·et urned .])y 21-8 leadin~ colleges and univcr- sitif's which account for nearly hall of the total enrollment of male a11d coeducational institution\. ln volumP of recruiting l.\mong. this year's graduates, Genetal Elec- tric Company, Du Pont, PI'OC'tor & Gamhle, WPstinghouse and variouo; Ame!'iC'an Telephone o;ub<idial ii'H are leading, M1·. Ridgway \aid. \Engint•Pring jobR wer<> in the !Pad 111 96 ino<tanc<'-.. with ~3 plaC'· ing hu~tness admini~trution in top po:-;,tton TParhtng toppt•d ti;, lbt~., an.d gt\tlt\ral busint·s~ cla..;~ihcatu.n~ \ wPre in fom·th placE'. ·~chulat :.llqJ, pl·: .,una l!t y. c:t !llpll· acttvlty <lllll popul~tl·t~. r 1 l:t!:tf'tPJ.I h•aJt'lshtp and ~~-n~·tal :rhili1y tn! Uw ul t.l.t'l' n.uw·d, v.. j'J'f' nHl''t fJ·P l qu!'nlly giv<>n as qualificationH bP \ ing \ou. ]}y prospeC'tiv£> Pmploy· Dr. George H. Danton's recent publication \Abel Mit Der Mund- harmonika,\ .by Hausmann, which he t1anslated and edited has been adopted 'bY Harvard University, Oberlin College and the University of lllinoi.s as well as Union College, according to an announcement by W. \V. No1·ton nnd Company, pub- Ushers. Favor Status Quo Burns Bar.ford '37 and Henry Clay '39 agvee that The Cancor- diensis should not receive less money, but that it should spend more on pict Ul'eS and ·engraving-. Clay, in, addition, feels that the Glee Club should have an enlarged appropriation. Anticipating Cohen's opinion by one step, Melvin I. Muroff '38 rec- ommended that the Glee ·Club's ap- .propriation 'l>e cut so that it will ·]}e forced· to ·<Lemand more frooo· sponsoring appropriations. He called The Concordiensls \an ex:· tremely important •organization,\' and decried any reduction In its . allotment. r-------------------·-·:1· I , t To Rate With Your Date 1 1 • Ye>u~ll Need a I • il t CORSAGE :1 t I t I • Get It at Union's Florist I • 1 I I i T. J. KING t ' PHONE 4-6444 ~ • • t Overhead Grossing-State St.: . ' . l--------------------·-- N~Flft,··un•· and f»UI't<'ntlh prr\ r t·nl of tlw tt·!dl''\ l:tnla·d ~~·holat 1 :-htp a:. tht· fu>t rptaltficlttlotl f111 ~Ul'«'P!-Isful JOb-..-.t•t·kt•t.... Pf'r~onality wa~ \'\''11 fi1 ,t ~1m'<' hy l\l7 pc1 ('f'tlt uf thl' in~tit.utions: charnC\'tf\l', fr per .cent; campus populality, 3.fi per cent; and general ability, 1.4 .p<'r cent. Some rep! ies listed as many as seven qualifications, oth· ers only one or two.\ ----··0-- Dean's List Omission The name of J. Robert Doig '38 was omitted from the last Dean's List. AMERICAN A1 LAUNDRY The MGSt l'erteet Laundry Work In the Cil.plrol Dl11trlct Taste that says ttCome again'' Mlld11.ess that says ttCome often\ •.. for the full measure of the good things you want in a cigarette we invite you to enjoy ·cHESTERFIELDS Phone 4.-Sl66 1080 Barrett St. Copyriaht 19.37, l.tOGIITl' &: MY£&S To:eACCO Co, / ... Vo ~ E ( Gi mu da; bo1 pm neJ T ·sele 193{ mat '39, Cole J< poll Con wer met crt agir spo1 new feat T edit mar Ar·u Hul nor D t i\'t• con' C'un of I P:-;i f: p:-; fl <'lJ D :\t•V ,ny he mer ines res!' mer nity mer fres R mer Con he is a His Vii Mas Chi bee1 and staf

t t y c- p- ill II I :t rt •I :1 I I I I I I I • • • • t. : ,.,. P~om Features Music By tvlorgan I I : _:..:::...::.__:~ ==----==-- ~ ------------ • ltltStS Union Greets 250 Prom Guests Vol. LX., No. 56 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, 1\IAY 14,1937 ========~====~======= PRICE FIVE CENTS ~~~===~~=- - -- -- - .0~~~-=~~---_ --------- - Campus Spruced Up for Prom Board Elects N·ew Slate Of Publications Chiefs Gilmon1· Chosen Eusiness Manag-et· ~fConcordiensis· Stevenson Edit()r Garnet; Yllnich, Coleman ' And LieGman Also on Gar11et Board Wednesday, l\Iay 12.-Eig·ht appointments to editorial and managerial positi0ns ()11 campus publications were mctde to- day by the PubHcations Board. Fom mernb.ers of the senior board of The C()ll<!Ol'diensis we1·e des ig:nated Jor definite posts. Selection of a new Idol board vv::u postponed until next Wednesday. T Douglas 0. Steven.son '39 was®•--------------- ·selected as editor-in-chie:f of the 1939 Garnet, David \Yu nich '39, managing editor; Stan! ey Liebman '39, photographic editor; and Carl Coleman '39, business ~nanager. John H. Gilmour '39 was ap- pointed business manager of The Concordiensis. D-efinite positions were assigned fou1 rEcently elected members of the senior board. Rob- ert H. Ferguson '38, be-comes man- aging editor, Carl R. T'rahman '38 sports editor, Julius J. Eundgus '38 news editor, Henry Hattrnann '38 feature editor. Three men wete appointed to the editotiul board of the new fre:;h- man year boult of whid Edmond At·undel '3!! is edito1 _ 1.'-he_y include HuLett Wallet '39, \1\'illiarn O'Con- nor '39 and AI Wnna '40. Collt>ge Rt>~ords Douglas St even:;on ha; b0en ac- t ivt· in tlH' ~loun t•·l>an ks and ha~ l'ontt ibut.t-d to a culunm in The ConcotdJt•n,j:; thb )'Pal. ,\. ••·>ident of Btooklyn, ht• IS a nH•mber of thl' l''i t·p~llon fratet-ni ty. H~ playt•d f: t•ohman ft>utball ant! ha,; ht•Pn f1 <'quentlr on th\ Ih·na's List. David Yunich b a n1e.mbe1 uf the ~ .. w~ Bureau anti cutcnr:; fot var- ,,ty l.Jascbull. A ll',ld(•nt of Olbany, he is a member of Kavpa Nu. A member of The Concordiengis buR- iness staff, Stanley Liebman is a resident of Poughkeepllle and a member o.f the Kappa Nu frater- nity. Carl P. ColeiXJan of Troy is a member o:f Psi Upsilon_ He played freshman lacrosse and hockey. Robert Walter, Psi Upsilon, is a member of the junior b<lard of The Concordiensis. A Dean's List man, he played freshman. lacrosse. He Is a member of the Debating Team. His home is Detroit. M!lclligan. William D. O'Conn<>r of Holyoke, Massachusetts, is a rnernb€r of the Chi Psi fraternity. AI Wrana has been active in the N.I:ou.ntebanks and is a member of the circulation staff of The Concord iensls-. Busin.f!ss Manager Clear Sides Predicted The weather for the week- end: Cool with considerable clearing this afternoon and to- night with an excellent possi- bility of sunshine before• sun- set this •evening. Tomorrow, fair and somewhat warmer. Professor E. S. C. Smith, Union's Master MetPorologist. expres-sed some doubt as to the accm-acy o :f hls forecast. His report, he ~ays, may be sev- eral hou.rs ahead of time A Favorite Trysting :Place Our Junior Prom Girl Moulton and WranaNamed Winner.s In General Schuyler Song Contest WORDS BY ALAN C. WRANA '39 MUSIC BY EDGAR MOULTO!>J '37 VERSE Oh, Up above the Mohawk Ri'ller iu Sche11ectady, Dirck Romey11 rwith foresight plai11 b~tilt his academy. Then o11 the SUI/e came Philip Schuyler and to Dil'lk said /,e, \For the sake of knorwledge build a colle{le for posterity.\ CHORUS Raise your voice to Gm'ral Sclzuyler. He's a man of fighting fame. More than that he j01mded Union And deser'IJes our loud acclaim. l.ong may l' mo11 sing his praises. Shout tlum v.:itlz a v:il/ 1 Tllt''JI lr·t us sh''' '\ tlu famuus /mutlf,.,. llj tilt· \(.'uli on tlu !/ill\ VERSE 11~ !!'(/! tl:1 [rr,fi,un' ft~·r•ri.J5i•,n 'JI/ tl,,/, tan.IJ ,,, l·uil.l. f/, .... ,,,,,, tl !l'r'tlf fr.l;f;,,,l / 1 1f IJIP · •J 1 ft!ft UTI !It, ftif!. 'T-:.~IlJ /l•lf'l !Itt (-lll,,f.' IJf/11, /'r-•tf.'r 7.~t lttt;1't',/ tJUI ll£l11ic', ln.! I·· (:r!ltUJI!'IJI/Jj SthUjltl ~~' yi:r.·, t.fulnk.i /ol c·uiun'J llilffl,t'. C'I!ORI S [Rcpt·at) '\' --------·--------- Thuts.lny. May 13. Edgar L. I \\·•·•na \\' a nwmhPI t•f thP <nl Moulton ·a7 anti A Inn (' \\'rant 1 , • 3<J wtll ...:ha·J £' Ill rhP H lJ.•' IIHIIlf'l, ~,~,.~,. ll.lnn duJITlg hi..; ft P~ilrnan )eat f .f. tl b. tl , . 1 1 . f · ll•· t\\ t:111._:ht himsl'if t\ !;lay .ttw II PI t_• .Y lt' '\...-On Cui\._ n·n~l~ IJI . I t . tht> be:-;t sung- WJ ittPn 1t1 hono1 of ptann. ~ 101 llh wrltt~n a ·nu-mbf't of ~ 1 Phili Schu ·JpJ· who ..:on:::-;, nHJstly fnr h1:-: n~·n anlURP· Genet a . P • :0. • nwnt Ht• i\ n m<'mh<>t of th<' Kappa ·ruuntletl Umun and dt•st•t vt·s out :'II f t - 1 d · . b f louc:l acclaim,\ it was annuun~ed ; h 1 ~ ~~n~~~~i~n~r.s d~re~l~f~ :t·a.;f today by Norman R. Stewart, for- · Ed't ~· -Ch' f f the Con- The contest was the result of tlle me·~· .' or m le 0 142nd Founder's Day celebrations cot tensts.. . . held in Fe·bruary. It was at this Moulton s rnustc wa~ JUdged . to celebmtion that Schuyler was first be. the best ,of th.e eu.:·ht rntl'les recognized as one of the founders whtle Wrana s lyrtc was thought of Union. The Concordiensis de- to be more histozically _co.rrecl with cided to establish General Schay- the result that some difficulty was Ier's name on an equal basis with experi.enc.ed· in attempting to pick othet· important men from Unl<ln the wm.mng song. :S:owever, at the by offering a prize to the one wdt• suggest10n. of t.he JUd.ges, Wran.a ing the best song in honor of hini. · rewrote hts Iyrtc .to .fit Moulton s Judges for the contest were four melody and the wmnmg song was in number, two from the faculty produced. and two from the student body. Moulton, always deeply in it> rested They were Dr. Charles N. Waldron, in the musical activities of the col- Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, Norman R. lege, has been co-leader of the Glee Stewart and S. Ralph Cohen. The Club for the past year and has reason for much of the delay in been carillon ringer for Daily and announcing the winner was the Sunday Chapel during his four fact that Dr. Waldron was for~ed years at Union. He is a rnembet· of to be absent from the college dur- Delta Upsilon fraternity. ing the first part of April. Russ Morgan Provides Music For 6·0 0 Happy Revelers Marine Atmosphet·e Permeates Alumni Gymnasium, Scene of Annual Junior Affair; Bracelets Witlt Minerva Seal Given as Favors \Vith the campus dressed in the gay colors of the spring season and every fratemit? house bright with decorations, the entire college will be ho:st to over· 250 comely feminine guests tonight at the Junior Pwm. of the Class of 1938. l.\Iusic in the ~[Qr·gan .:\Immer· will issue forth from the nau- tical-looking cabin on the ship's deck, which the gymnasium will l'ep1·esent, as Russ ;.\I organ's famous music makers go th1·ough thei:t· paces. ------~ Hale House will remain open all night tonight, serving refreshments to gue,;ts and members of the col- lege until the prom is over. Jack- son':; Gat·den has also been care- fully groomed for the event. Favors are attractive silver bracelets with the :Mi.nerva Seal on them. New Torcl~ Singers Jf'ith Morguz Orchest1·a Bernice Pa.r-lts will furnish the female vocal melody when Morgan arrives tonight. She and two other vocalists will accompany the band of seven- teen men, m.ad-e up of four violins, four sa.xaphones, two trombones, three trumpets, a piano, drum, guitar, and bass. Morgan will play both the piano and trombone. 'The Prom Committee have been working at top speed, undet the di- tection of Chairman Harold B. Aclterman, to complete final ar- rang<'ment.,, over:;et'ing the work dune in t!Pt•oratmg the gymnasium. The colo! ,.;cheme of the decora- tions will be blue and silver·, carry- mg <lltt tht• >('a-gumg theme. Vi(PPk<'nd 1•rogran1 'The Prom is the highlight of the r1~nt inu(~u~ 1 uund of festivitie~ whk h will hold fonh all weekend. ThL< uftclnoun a baoeball game h,·_t\VI'I' n tht· vat !:illY n1n~ and th~ Al-ht ny ~··nat<>lo wtli Le played on Ale~andet Ftl'ltl .tt 3 u'cluck. To- night and tomon ow night at 8:30 o'r 1 oc·k tht· ::11ountebanks will gn·e tht·ir· '-lnnual Pturu ptoduction. This Y\\'' it i, \The \\' intl antl the Rain,\ a r u!lick1ilg cun>e<ly of :::>cut- ish t:niveroi-ty life. 'Tomorrow the fr aternitie<~ take the most prominent patt in the ac- tivities with tea dances, dinners and formal dances tomorrow night planned by a majority of them. Th.e members of the committee, which :has worked to insure a suc- cessful prom, are Chairman Harold B. A.ckerman, Hyman Enzer, Ed- ward. Barry, Francis Agostini, George Doyle, William Hook, Fred- eri-ck: Hawley, Elmer .Johnson and Winterton Day. Professor William W. Eennett, cooidinator, assisted the committee in his official and unofficial capacities. <Continued on Page 4)

Page Two \11 C attsa Per sa Paro'/e Assai\ FOUNDED 18'77 !936 Member IQJ7 14ssocial:ed Co~e6iale Press Disuibutors of Cdleeiate Di6est REP RES ENTEO t-oR Nil TIONA!.. AI.' 'VE.hliiSING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representallrte 4l!.Oli'IADISONAYE. NEIVYORK.N.Yo CHICAGO • BOSTON ;. SAN FRANCISCO LOS ANG!::L.EB • PORTLAND • SEATTL.B: The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published TI1esdays and Fri· days through<lUt the college year, except dur- ing Christmas and Spring recesses. ___ _ Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-414~ _. Entered at the Schenectad;y Post Office as ----~S.c.ec.:::_o:,:n_d~Class Mail Matte~---·-_ Subscripti<ln pt\ice Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in _t~«:_Unite!l_~~t~s. Editorial RDoms, Sillimnn HaP, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenec~a~y._ 4:_~~~~ _ Senior Board Hyman A. Enz.er ................ Editor-in-Chiol 11 !:l. tl. !:luUlil Cuilc•ge-li·~72b Rob~rt H. Ferguson .......... Managing E<litor l 1 ~i \\\l~ilotl Huu:-t.:--l~~';lU Julius J. Bundg,us ............... News Editor ~ ::-i ~. Suutl1 l'l,l\t-bl' ti-!1·~:!~ Henry D. Har tman. . . . . . . . . Feu t ur~ Editor ~ll \\l\IUll .\\l.\IILIV 'l·~l~t/l Carl R. Trahman...... . .. Sports Editur l~~lPP·l :-;t~!lla llull\'t.' 4 -~:{:!;j John H Gil rnour ............. Bu:;i!le~s Manager 1 lt\lta l 'p:-dult Huu~L' .t-'i~l:!~ Alfred R. Seigle ......... Circulation Manager· l{appa ;\ u-{-iJ.Jl - -----·----~-~-~ Junior B()ard A~SOCIATJ!: K!Jl'l'Oit8 Her· bert 0. Fox Hobert A. Saaf J:t'redericlt W. Hequembuurg Jerome Smith H. Wyman Hitchcock Edward C. Retartyk David B. Mille!\ Hobert C. Walter, Jr. Sophomore Board Assistant E•lltors C. Russell Deyo, Christopher M. Fahy, Rupert L. Gilmore, William G. Go1mley, Albe1•t H. Ha.iavin, R-ichard 8. Harri,;un, Gemge L. Peck, Lawrence V. Pellettier. Jr., Thomas H. RaJ, ston, Townsend J. Rifenbary. John J. Steidltl\ M. Gale Hoffman.. Issue Editor Wyman Hitchcock THE CONCORDIENSIS, F:RIDAY, MAY 14, 1.937 rhe success of the productions has been aJ- 'l'l= II and bette•· looking •boy friends.\ Banners proclaiming \Why Do We rnost sensational. I J .u s r· ·.1' N J E. s T·' Have to Stlffer With Union 1\llen? l\liss i\liriam Doyle, affectionately known , . · · • · Why Doesn't Someont~ from R.P.:I. Come Along? were paraded up and' as \Grandma\, came he1•e early last fall to \ down the campus. take up her duties with the dramatists~· Although the school authorities H'ya lads anc:t lassies. Well, t<l· That will make your date feel swell. were at fil•st completely dismayed ·on the opening production of \Squaring the' morrow night is prom-and your 5. If your staying s,t a f1•aternity at the unexpected turn of events, it Ch•cle''. The smoothness of the finished per-• uncle Willy still hasn't a date. Isn't house be sme a.nd cviticize .the fur- is believed a plan sugg~sted by ~me H awful? However, if any of youse niture an!i house in general. 91 .the strikers thllt R.P.l. men be fut·nul.nCe and the .almost unanimous ap-; :purty gals need any \help\ this 6. Comp;J.re Union's prom with imported to the Schemectady Gol· l f · -week-end, let us know. For in- the one you attended at :partmouth. lege, ·win be accepted. However, the prova of the \pro esswnal\ technique put 'staHce, if your date gets sick, cr He'll love that. strikers have continued their m1trcl1 · th t th · 1 f d t' '\'passes-out or is forced to flee 11 thr h t th ti e u.c ors on e pmnac e 0 rama JC 7. Try your •best to make his fra·. a oug ou e pea.ce nego a- nome to his sick g1·andmother, why tions er 1 t tl fu · t \'- h . t t U · C ll · tern1\ty ·brother s1'tt1\n.g ·across the ' P s s en Y re Slng 0 u.,y - table from you at dinner. Also, own e r arms 1m I an ·· ; • .ac 1evemen a mon o el.!'e. ·call the D. U. house and ask for · d th 1 \ t\I RPI l\1 . D 1 R 1 d St b1. · , · ft••· Uncle Willy. We aim to please.· . a· roes a1 ng lSS oy e was ·OW an · e ulllS \Q.'l along this Jlne, you might try wink- m n co 0 • - Nigllt work a specialty! : to Union Colleg·e. She proved one of thoe,· ing at Dr. Fox at the dance. This UNCLE W1LLY'S QUESTION- is bound to please both your date * • Headline in The New Hampshh•e. * • : most valuable chmnls the coHege theatre ha..s, NAIRE ... WHY do they call Bob and Mrs. Fox. eVel' had. . Saar \l of the pot\ ... WllAT : 8. Be sure and tell him ~~;bol1t the tw<> intoxicated lads did a str.ip · handsome football player from Wil- The outstanding experiment of Th.e' act around the chapel one after- Iiams that was your guest at your noon about a week ago ... WHAT Mountebanks this :Year was the presentation katemities are practically \bla<il•- prom. Alumni Conb·iblltes More Freely N()W f W . d . balling\ prom because for two 9. Tel'] him that you think R. P. 0 \ mterset,\ 1\lax.weH An erson's Cl'OWll· straight years they haven't bad I. is a wonderful college. He'll no , ing work. Played l'emarkably well under anybody elected to prom committee doubt agree heartily, · ... IS Mr. Achilles taking a ·P<lSi- 10. And be~ore you leave Georges many technical difficulties the phLyet'S tion with thr Knox School next or Tony's, or wherever he brings .p1·oved themselves 011ce more. year ... IS Dr. Lutz leaving Union you --be i:lUI'e and kiss the bartender fm a petter job at Albany Medical good night. This will bf' the last This time the credit was due to the ... WHAT D. u. made an unsuc· sttaw. Ymu· date will just love ya to chal'tning Bruce Adams, incessant smoker ()f ces:>ful attempt to break Reilly's death. gambling room Saturday night ... cigat·ettes and imitator unsurpassed. An· IS Cohen taking swimming lessons actor himself for many years and a radio WHERE is Fran Fish staying this week-end ... IS it true that Chris Bye now, UNCLE WILLY. performer, l\11'. Adams has added to the pro·' Cammack asked ten different girls fessional touch 2:iven t,y !Vliss Doyle.·. to go to prom with him and has yet - u • to h11ve one aceept. WHAT prof is Tonight The Mountebanks will give the still ton·id about a Tony Sharpe caricatut\e of him published in this first official performance of \The Wind u11d rag a long time ago ... WHAT fel- t he Rain\. It is u play that depends purely- low in WHAT fFaternity was so dis- . lil,ed by his room-mates that they upon atmospheric conditions. It is not a gave two othe1· \brothers\ three l )Owerful drama not' a stimulating intell.ec- dollars each i.f they would tal'e the disliked one \o ·room with them ... -~·-·-·-0·--·- QUOT,ES and COMMENT Tea on the terrace Milk on the mezzanine Moon over Miami Egg on the ve~t Feet on the desk Ba tR in the belfry. Cincinnati News ROOOI'd. ~ * * Oh does they? I thin\{ that I shall never ~ee, My na:me upon a Ph. D.; A Ph. D. on parchment rare, With scrolls and seals beyond compare, A mp.rk of worldly erudition, Sure to cal'l'y recognition; A Ph. D. that I can cl'aim, And put within a gol<!en frame, So I can hang it on my wail, And awe the laymen-one and all. But then again-on second thought A Ph. D. will get me naught; It won't create a gt•eat career, Nm· even buy a single beer, So I'll keep writing \poems\ Uke these, While highbrows earn their Ph, D'lil. -Stevens Stute. * .. \' From out in Cincinnati, where they go on field tl'lps in biology, comes the fol·lowing: tual piece. It's worth lies in its simple p·ot\- WHY did the faculty change the t.rayal of college life in Scotland. f,;e~~~~e~Y. w~ic~Nt~e ;~~ct~~;~ The \professioualization\ of The Mouate- torial action dld the faculty take recently regarding a particular ac- l.mnks for 1937 will l.Je complete with thifl tivity ... AND WHY are they final production. We have enJ'oyed the s.ea..- afraid to make known to the stu· dent body their course of action son immensely, both in its experimental an<! . , . HINT ... don't be afraid; there later stag·es. With tonight's show The im't the least chance of any reper· cussion ... From the Soiree Issue of Rens- selaer Polytechnic: .. SPLASH: Uni()n College, Sche- nectady, New York (The .Journal News Bweau). Anothel\ \beauty\ strike, the ,third this week, oc- curred with.in the bounds of Union College yesterday when a g•·oup of y01mg 1nisses struck for \bigger While roaming around, the meadow looking f<lr our winged friends, our classmates and Dr. Dreyer stumbled <ln some .fresh tracks in the earth. \This sort of bird,\ said the professOI', \is of the fourfooted species for which we are thankful it d<lesn't fly.\ News~Record. l\lountel.mnks dl'Op a solemn tear for Broa<l- \\\aY and reflect upon a Btimulating seu.so11 gone by. TilE IDOL TIDBITS ... lool~ed sorta sus- picious for Bill Ketz to hurry out of chapel when that \G man\ sta1ted to speak ... \The sopho- more class is the only class to start with an Amazon and finish up with a Yunich\ .. , understand the Col- gate crowd a1·e a pretty cold bunch ... lot of the lads went up there visiting party week-end . . . and were they given the cold shoulder ... even by their \brothers\ . , . CAMPUS SCENE: Grant and Axel There have been more puns a!Jout The showing four chorus gals cfrom· I dol than there have !Jeen printed words in Proctor's) the college · · · in track season too ... some guys hav:e all the magazine itself. We cannot hope to add the luck - . , lacrosse and track ·: '; We5tent Electric TELEPHONE APPAo.RATUS Wwtem Electric TRAIN DISPATCHING EQUIPMENT Assistants J. Smith A. Halavin W. G()rmley un ori9.'inal phrase to the Q.'l'OWill9.' list. were well repi·esented at the Wor· - - ~ den Saturday night . . . Marty Next week the almost-as-good-as-defuact Roses, Finchley agent, treated a few Unionites at the Club Petite T. Ralston L. Pellettier ---·-------- ---- ---- Friday, May 14, 1937 magazine will l>e given a new editorial board. last Thm·sday night ... Dowling, The inimiW.ble Ferdie Helm, the authol' of Tanner, and Ro.ss were there ... P S ... ~o were we!! Benny Good· the last publication, won't be back next year. man i:o not playing the Arnherst There won't lJe assistance from behind-the- prom tonight · · · Ozz:ie Nelson is the band ... Williams house par· \AT HOI\'IE\ Prom Week-End is probal.lly the only time that Union College is \at home\ at its best and fot' the lJenefit of about 300 female guests from many colleges and ciLi es who are exp-ected to participate in the festivities of the social celebration. What \'·ith the amwLLncement ab()ut the new benches in Jackson•s Gardens and the blooming of f1owe1·s 011 all parts of t'he cam- pus and with fraternitits and local hotels brushing up theil' livi11g rooms, thLs week- end pl'Omises to l.Je a !'eal success. scenes individuals. The Idol will indeed be ties this week-end ... ORCHIDS to defunct when its present J'unior editodal a fellow we've long meant to say something about ... WEE-VVILLY board moves into office. BENNETT ... he is \perfect\ for the position of activities coordina- We'd like tD step in line with a sugge.st1on ·tor ... there is no other prof on made by the Publications Board that 1nen the faculty who can get along with fellows Ji'ke Wee Willy ... CAMPUS outside of the p:resent Idol junior staff he SCENE: Mrs. Fox with seven Phi appointed to the senior board. The selection Gam's beautifying the Phi Gam grounds ... following day ... Mrs. should be determined first, on the amo·unt Fox with seven Psi U's replanting of time the men have to spend on the ma..ga- the Psi u grounds · · · Haskell's gal was here last week ... Eld Barry zine, second, theil' .executive or editorial a;hil- finally has a datr for· prom ... a bit all right too, by Gad . , . and ity; thil'd, their ability to write as well as by the way, Herr Barry sold over judge; and fourth, and of course, most hn· FOUR HUNDRED DOLLARS worth of prom tickets . , . the funny portant, theil· interest in furthering an in- thing is: TEDDY FOX CAN 11 . t) 'tt d tt t' 1 t d SPEAK FAIRLY WELL , .. te 1gen Y Wl'l en an a rae 1ve Y l)resen e Freddy Wyatt's date fo1· tonight publication. will be. Jean ... not .Salisbury _ ... At Other Collec;~es •• but Ackerman ... REUNION AT UNION ... Ed Carroll will be on the campus this weel-t-end for \The Wind and the Rain\ ... and Viola The welcoming tu the campus of '\oU:r fair visitors,\ as has l.Jeen so often quote·d, is too trite an editorial gesture. We want to cheer in journalistic chorus alJout the festive op- portunities that abound on the campus this week-end and to share in the exte11ding of sincet·e greetings to \our fair visitors.\ Russ Morgan and his orchestra is the drawing card for tonight's promenade, hut Union College itself is a higget· drawing card. Fo1· the next two days and a night Union's campus will be the main attraction. The gar- dens, the lil.n·ary, Washburn Hall, 'rhe Mountebanks, Hale House, The :\lemurial Chapel, South Sectio11 of South College, and the various other campus places will be the ()Oj ects of considen1l> 1e explaining and point- ing out. We recomnund them as a r;ure fot· tomorrow's hangover-. \The School of Experience\ will be an innovation introduced into the commencement exe1c'ise=o at TR,.INl'l'Y COLLEGE by the class of 1912, 1etu:rning to Hartford to celebrate its twenty-fifth r·euni<>n_ The chief importance of the school is to fus~ the p1actica.l and theoretical world in an attempt too· sup· plement the education of the college :oenior, now about to graduate with a ·knowledge of the be:nefits to be derived from a liberal education toward \vha t will follow. The srct etary of the class of 1912 i~ an an,ging for four or five speakers to discuss their various fleJds of endeavor in an attempt to give the graduating cia.'\ an insight into '\Vhat will follow after commencement. • An experiment in cooperative art is heing under- taken at BENNINGTON COLLEGE where five stu- dents are working together on u mural. Thr paint· ing portrays a sit-down strike. Ill :jl * Students at HAVERFORD in a recent .poll ex:• pressed themselves overwhelmingly in favor of leav- ing the Supreme Court alone. For the sec<lnd year Chief Justice Hughes was selected a.s the greatest living American with Henry Ford second an.d Frank- lin D. Roosevelt third. Patterson, incidentally, is great . , . swell movie material if we've ever seen it ... wonder where Guy Bar- ton got that red light Sunday morn- ing ... come clean Guy .. _ Jack Nott has finally fallen ... She's a Skidmorite . . . George Herath is tightening up on the boys' :bar bills ... an innocent in the library the other day inquired of a wise-guy the location of the men's room .. , ht> was told that it was 011 .the right he wall~ed in ... was his face I\E'd when a lady libranan wall,ed in ... and was her face red when she pranced out!! ... AND DID SHE PRANCE FAST!!! And .now, with apologies to the Skidmore News we present UNCLE WTIIY'S HINTS TO THE F .AIR. If you dear girls will follow closely· our advice we guarantee that your date will fall in love with you over the week-end. 1. Don't be ready- when your date calls for you ioli.ight. PROF·ESSIONALS The name professionals may be applied to The Mountebanks this year, and no one could justly feel indignant abo1,1t the loss of their amateur standing· fol' this season. With \The Wind and the Rain\ they are concluding one of the most unusual seasons in their hist(}ry. \ . As a reward for his excellent wo1k in physic.s, Clif· fm·d Witcher has received a university grant for con· tinuance of his research. Witcher, a st 11d<ent at COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY, Is !>lind. * • * A Mexican fiesta will feature the entertalnm·ent be· ing given 3,00() guests tomorrow at the an:nual Par· ent's :Oay celebration at NEW JERSEY COLLEGE FOR WOMEN. 2. When you see some of the prom committee members dancing with the chaperones, be sure to laugh uproariously. That will go over big. 3. When your date gets tight be sure and bring .him up in the bal- cony of the gym. He'll Jool' terribly funny falling over the edge. 4. Be sure to mix: your drinks and th€m when your tight-start to cry. .§, 'Wi!!ilent Elecnic BROADCASTING EQUIPMENT JtilsNm £/ecrrk TELEPHONE CA.BLE l Jrestem E/ecrdc PROGRAM SOUND SYSTEt.\ It's all around you In this busy age, things made by Westen-i Electric t!p· peat• on all sides. For in addition io its primary function as manufadure•·, purchaser and distributor for the Bell Telephone System, 'Vestern Electric produces appat·a- tus to meet almost every sound-transmission need. 'Thm. is why \Vestem Elecl.rie is called \lhe leader in sound -trumnnission.\ ltlcmufa•luring Plan!! at Chicago, ill,, Kearny, N. J,, und IJaltimPro, Md, .I l I D. Ed T mor Dix Ch! Ta) wor Spr unc son 0 had onl• Of~ ViOl don Del in othc leg\ I! con viet tior for sml the ten L CO·] Up! Odt pus Gie \Co Up: rna• Psi Fra the T foro spit a r• Mo ren the p~ T of eve IOVI nex ler, ter, Ion Ch: Ro· fac 1l the not sea nin mil fea rae SOl' mo lab too ing ing no- '! CUi Gr: Ch: Ch: 1 c E 193 pm bef the son con edi· 1l its a ' in pre fea hro Mir in T Mr. esp all pre, II not but of 1 The pic!

or it A.BLE t!p- Bell para- .I r 'i ~ ~r Mountebanks Make Hit With Smith Alt;Jmnae W~r illnurnrUirunia Garnet Astounds Campus By Appearing Fonnded 1877 FRIDAY, MAY 14, 1927 =====-~~==========~=-~--=-~-~-=-=·~==~~~-=~~~==================-----~ D. U. Wins Cup at Annual Spring Song Festival Ed Moulton Leads Singing. Of Yictors; Cup Pre- sented by Ml's. Fox Thursday, May 1il.-By unani- mous decision of the judges, Mrs. Dixon Ryan Fox and Professors Charles T. Male and Warren C. Taylor, Delta Upsil~n fraternity won the annual Interfraternity Spring Night song festival held under the Old Nott El·m in Jack- son's Garden. ·Of the nine fraternities which .had planned to ente1· the contest, only three were actually present. Of the contestants, Psi Upsilon pre- viously won two legs on the cup donated by the Music Department. Delta Upsilon had anuexed one leg in a previous festival. The only other fraternity po~sessing two legs, Kappa Alpha, was not .present. Kappa Sigs Com}Jlimented In presenting the cup, Mrs. Fox complimented the winners on their victory and also made special men- tion of Kappa Sigma Fraternity for Its splendid showing with a small group. She also explained the difficulty the judges encoun- tered in deciding the winner. Led by Edgar Moulton, who is co-leader of the Glee ·Club, Delta Upsilon sang \The Delta Upsilon Ode\ and \Come Now to the Cam- pus.\ :kappa Sigma sang \Brightly Gleams the Star and Crescent\ and \Come Now to the Campus.\ \Psi Upsilon Joys\ and \The Dutch- man's Song\ were the selections of Psi Upsilon under the direction of Frank Gatchell, also co-leader of the Glee Club. The group opened the festival be- fore a rather large audience, de- spite the threatening weather with a rendition of \By the Light of the Moon.\ The event closed with a rendition of the \Alma Mater\ by the entire group. ----o--·- Philomathean S()eiety Elects Officei'S for 1938 Tuesday, May 11.-At a meeting of the Philomathean Society last evening in the old chapel the fol- lowing officers were elected for next year: President, Robert Denz- ler, '38; Vice-President, Robert Wal- ter, Jr., '39; Secretary, Walter Fal- lon, '40; and Student Manager, Charles Honikel, '38. Mr. Joseph Rotundo will continue to serve as faculty adviser. After the meeting Charles Reeves, the retiring student manager, an- nounced the results ~f the present season which ended Thursday eve- ning when Reeves and Clark Cum- mings upholding the negative, de- feated Dartmouth College in a radio debate on the subject, \Re- solved that Industrial Unions ol'l'er more efficient bargaining organ for labor than Craft Unions.\ Union took part in seventeen debates dur- ing the year, winning seve~ and l.os- ing one with the other nme bemg no-decision discussions. The retiring officers are Clark Cummings, '37, President; Guy Graves Jr. ~37, Vice-President; Charles Honikel '38, Secretary; and Charles Reeves '37, manager. Dennett of Williams Ta Address Phi Betes Dr. Tylet· Denuett, President of Williams College, will ad- dress the Upper Hudson Asso- ciation of Phi Beta Kajllpa, at their dinner meeting in Hale House tomorrow. His subject will be \Propaganda and Edu- cation.•• Dr. Dennett g.raduated from Williams in 1904, a.nd became president of his alma mater thirty years ,late1'. In the inter- vening period he acted as an associate editor of the World Outlook, trustee of the Amer- ican Council on Foreign Rela- tions atLd Vice-President of the National Collegiate Athletic Association. In 1933 he was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for his biog.raphy of John Hay, Civil Reform Group Holds First Confab J. Smith '39, to Speak in As- sembly on League Next Wednesday Tuesday, May 11.-In its final or- ganization. meeting of the year, the Union College chapter of the Na- tional Civil Service Reform League tonight drew up a chapter consti- tution to govern the body in the future. A report of the national college meeting in New York, at which 31 colleges were represented, was given by the two Union College delegates. Plans foJ• next year were also discussed. The progress of the group to date and its program for the future will 'be reviewed at a Daily Assembly talk, Wednesday morning, by Je- rome Smith '39, one of the two stu- dent organizers at Union. It is 1being planned to distribute a questionnaire among various stu- dents on the campus who have sig- nified their interest in a Civil Service ·group, with the purpose in mind of finding out how many are acquainted with the merit system and governmental activity relative to it. The local chapter which was re- cipient of the first charter of the new network of similiar college chapters throughout this part of the country, plans to get underway in full swing next fall with an ex- tensive program already outlined. ---o D. U.'s, Kappa Nu's Elect New Officers for Year ·Charles B. Honikel '38 was elected next year's president of Delta Upsilon fraternity at a chap- ter meeting on Wednesday night. Edward Barry '38 was made the new vice president and William Mulvey '&S was cho.sen to represent the chapter at the national con- vention to be held in Berkley, Cali- fornia, next Septem·ber. Plans are being made to hold the 1?38 na- tional convention at Umon at which time celebration of the hun- dredth anniversary of the chapter will take place. Kappa Nu fraternity announces the election of the following men to official positions: President, Al- fred R. Seigle '38'; Herman Kessler '38 as vice president; Melvin Mur- off '38 as treasurer and Joseph Lu- bansky '39 as steward. 1938 Garnet, Early for Once, Called \Peer of Predecessors'' History has been made! The 1938 Garnet appeared on. the cam- pus yes,terday afternoon, a ~ay before Junior Prom. 'R.emembenng the arrival of last year's annual sometime during the summer, we congratulate the staff of the 1938 edition for their accomplishment. Aside from the promptn·ess of its appearance, the 1938 Garnet is a worthy piece of work, ranking, in our opinion, with the best of preceding editions. -Most striking feature of the book is its heavy .brown cover decorated with the Minerva seal of the college done in garnet and gold. The dedication of the volume to Mr. and Mrs. Walter C. Baker is especially appropriate In light of all they have done in this and preceding years for Union College. In content the 1938' Garnet does not differ fz•om .precedi'hg editions, but its format is superior to that of most year books we have seen. The arrangement of .the indi:vidual pictures of the juniors in the form <?;> of a \U\ on a double page with the Minerva seal in the center is a refreshing variation from the us- ual yearbook style. The entire boolt and especially the s.ports section is much enliv- ened by numerous, well-selected pictures of students, teams, gamPs, campus scenes. While a few of the pictures are old and some poo:ly arranged, as a whole they are m- teresling and a decided addition to the book. The photographs of earn- pus buildings and landmarks are enhanced by their printing on spe- cial paper. The plan of scattering them throughout .the boolt instead of bunching them together serves to break up the content and afford variety. One unfortunate feature of the 1938 Garn.et Is the use of two sizes of type for the soports stories. Al- though this may have been done for purposes of space, it neverthe- less detracts from the appearance of the book. R. H. F. \LOVE IS THE ONLY THllN,G\ VIola Pnttf'rsun nnd Ge<>rge Hart II, '3S, in a. t~urhillg S!'ene from ••')')\(' \\'lnd anti the ltnln\ \VItirh OJJens tuujght ut S :3()· u.,do«•lt in Th1• Jluunt.l'ba.nks ThPu.trt•. \1'1JI•; \\'I;>.;ll A.!':ll Tfll•; TL\1~\ A C~ornetly in 'ThreP Ad:-; l>; ~lt,rton Hodge Characters Mrs . .:\lcl•,ie ..•... , ..... ~Ihiatn John:{nn Oilbe.rt U.avmond.Oeorge P. Haskell'37 Juhu \\'illiH.m~ .... John P. Delaney ·:n .('harles Tritlotl .... neot·ge- ·Hart II, '3!-J Pr. !-Jaul lJullanH:•l. Hrman A. l~nzer '3:-. .All Ill-' llargrt>a\'*=':. ...... Viola Patten;on .rill :\htnnering ... Joan Hullin l liurnond H'<>!!:el' Cole ........ Rli·hal·d c ;, I lay ·:w Pt>ter :\f.urgan .•...... Tons .Sharpt\ '3X the novel ·by Smnerset Maughan, \Of Human B(}ndage\ The story revolves around th·e trials and trib- ulations of a medical student, Charles Trittou, .1v ho comes to the university mentally bewildered and falls in love with a sculptress who aids him to find himself. Around this plot is drawn an amusing but accurate .portrait <>f student life. In its hearty pungent. humor the play By ROBERT H. FERGUSON scores its greatest appeal. Seldom In keeping with the spirit of has this reviewer 'Witnessed a play Prom, the Mountebanks are pre- with so many witty lines drawn senting a perfect play for such a from lifelike situations. weekend, an authentic comedy of Well-integrated and balanced in college life. \The Wind and the its construction, \'I'he Wind and the Rain\ which had its preview last Rain\ last night proved itself to be night .before an audien~e of Smith well-directed and perfectly cast. College alumnae, depicts the life of George Hart, pla;yin.g his second medical students in a Scottish role in a Mountebanks play, as university. However, it might take Charles Tritton, shared top acting place in any college so well-drawn honors with :Viloa. Patterson, who are its characters and so typical its played the female lead of Anne situations. Hargreaves, and George Haskell, Unlike \Squaring the Cit·cle\ who supplied much of the comedy which the Mountebanks ptesented as GHbert Rayn10nd. last fall, \The Wind and the Rain\ With \The Wind aud the Rain\ does not draw its humor from the Mountebanks conclude their comic situations but rather from season with a record of three \hit\ witty lines and humorous· charac- shows. We heartily recommend ters. In its serious .sense the play \The Wind and the R.ain\ as a thor- is a penetrating analysis of human oughly enjoyable, well-directed, nature, reminding one strongly of, well-played comedy. CINEMA By JOHN B. DOWLING Call It A D!Ly (Cosmopolitan; Di- rector, Archie L. Mayo; Proctor's) makes Dodie Smith's. play of the same name, bright, good fun. More than a mere translation into filmic terms, it has expanded the scope of the play both in dialogue and space, given the story a brilliant cast of real actors. The whole of Call It A DILy tran- spires In the life of a su·burban London family over the space of one bright spring day. Alice Brady says that she can feel the sap ris- ing in her. So can all of the cast. And so the vernal urge finds the family and its friends engaged 'With the dalliances of love, volunl:arily and involuntarily. The children are affected in direct ratio to their ages, while the parents find them- selves caught up in the spirit willy- nilly. MUSIC We apologize profusely for not having a bona-fide music column this issue .but as !.here was no con- cert and our mind 1vas feeling un- fertile we turned ·DVe r our space to a friend to do with what he pleased. We hereby exoner·ate our- selves from an.ything that might appear in the space below. Any in- discretion is stt· ict ly not our own. H. O.F. Though what folJo.ws may seem to the more lcindly readers of this column a desecrati<m 1 half remem- ber some phrase t<J the effect that \there shall be Vili.iling and gnash- ing of teeth.\ ..As walling belongs more closely to t·he realm of music, this shall constitute the gnashing. Some things look bad, some things seem bad and some things smell bad-there Is a. more graphic expression for this latter property -and to this group belongs the first paragraph of the recently re- appearing column in the Concordy. Savages even ha~re some scruples about strilting frozn behind, but then we aren't savages are we? We had hoped that this might be an obituary hut as th.at would be ask- ing too much we shall carry on despite. Lectr.tre on Antiquities Will Be Given Monday Wednesday, May 12.-Mrs. Roger T. Stone will give an illustrated lecture on \The Antiquities of Mexico and. Cen- tral America\ in Old Chapel at 8:00 p. m. Monday l.'vening, May 17, it was anuounced to- day by Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox. Mrs. Stone, whose home is in New Or·leans, is the wife of an alumnus of the Class of 1928. Her father is the Presi- dent of the United F1·uit Com- pany, and thi'Ough his trading connections she has had· un- usual opportunities to learn of tropical North American peo- ples, ancient and modern. A -r·eceplion in the honor of Mr . .and Mrs. Stone will be held in Hale House following the lecture. F. B. I. Investigator Speaks in Assembly Crime Detection Must Be Free Fmm Political Pres- sure Explains G-Man. Wednesday, May 12.-\Think of us as scientists, instead of \G-Men' starting out with a new profession to deve!Dp a career man free fwm politicians. We have to get away from that.\ Thus spoke N. J. Pieper, in charge of the Buffalo office Df the Federal Bureau of In- vestigation, Department of Justice in Daily Assembly today. \As far as is known,\ he added, \there is no such thing as a per- fect e:l'ime, though sometimes there will be no clues. We are all human and we all make mistakes,\ he .said. \As a result, sometimes the investigators misjudge a case which thus may not be solved, Little Kidnapping Worl{ The majority of the business of the bur-eau has to do with the in- vestigation of the affairs of the various government departments. Only five per cent of its work en-· tails cases with lddnapings and murders, which gain the headlines of the 11ewspaper. One <JUt of every five criminals is unde1· 21 years of age, a criminal of the worse type. The duty of the pul>lic .is to show them that there is neit:her glamour nor romance connected with crime and to show them how wicked it really is. It must also do all it can to aid law- enforcement, not look upon it merely as the policeman's job. There are only 625 \G-Men\ in the United States. Every applicant must be between the ages of 25 and 35, and must have a degree from a law school or an accredited college. His past history is given a thot·ough over-going. We find out things he may have forgotten about,\ Mr. Peiper remarked, \but we give each a chance to tell evet·ythlng first.\ Seven million sets of fingerprints are listed in the main office in Washington, with several hundred thou.sand mote coming in daily. Swing time Tops Even in 1906- Floor Was Shaky Uwrlie U:1aldron Tells Tales Of Dances on the Library Tiles By CHRISTOPHER FAHY Swing time was the favorite dance rhythm of the Union 'College student in the student days of Dr. Charles Waldren. But it was an accidental smt of swing time due to the weak floor in Yate's boat- house, whet·e the Union boys held their dances. At that time the Junior Prom was not one dance 'held by the Junior class, but a ser- ies of monthly dances. The students danced to a three piece orchestra, llnanced by an admission fee of fifty cents. The Senior Ball was the big dance of the year. It was held in the library, which was empty when first erected. When it was finally supplied with books, they were covered over with canvass stained garnet. \A wooden floor was ·brought from the cellar, where it was stored, and fitted together like a jig saw puzzle,\ Dr. Waldron said. As the cellar floor was merely dirt, the dancing floor was usually pretty dirty. With the viprations set up by the dancing, quite a haze soon hung over the dancers. At one of the dances, a caterer had set food on the floor behind a curtain stretched across an alcove. When the students went for refreshments for their escorts, they found that the curtain had been little protec- tion for their food. It was covered with an ample layer of the dust. One year the Senior Ball was held in the old Electrical Engineering building, now the Biology Building. It had just been completed, accord- ing to Dr. Waldron, and there was no machinery in it at the time. When Dr. Waldron was a stu- dent, they used to have two differ- ent bands come over from Albany to play. They were both Italian. and equally .good. Their names were difficult for Dr. Waldron to spell. The dances were all waltzes and two steps. The latter was prac- tically the one-step, but a little faster. The Senior Ball was always a .program dance, about every other one on the card being a waltz, which was very popular at the time. The Senior Ball was finally given up about 11l13 for laclt of .support, to be replaced by a Commencement Ball committee in the gymnasium. These, too, were abandoned for the same reason. Most of the students had dissipated by commencement. There were many fraternity dances to take the place of the .ball. The ·biggest of these was held for many years by Sigma Phi. This was pre- ceded by a big dance at the Alpha Delta Phi house earlier in the week. \In those days, the dances were held in a much different spirit,\ Dr. Waldron said. \They were more formal, but they were not so stiff that we didn't ·have a good time. The students took their dancing very seriously and their dances were very proper because they felt they should be.\ Charles D. Coburn Comes Sunday Underway Tro Help Get Festival Charles D. Coburn, directing orites of the past two seasons re- head of the Mohawk Drama Fest!- turning, val, will s:pend the week-end at \While a. change in the Jist of Union College conferring with Dr.· plays to be presented may be oc- Dixon Ryan Fox, Frederick Calvin, casioned by the terms of accept- Milton M. Enzer and others on the ance of a guest artist, the plays plans for the third annual drama and their dates will be substan-tial- festival. He will bring with him a ly as follows: Beyond such an inkling the plot is rather involved. The fall of night terminates the story and signifi- cantly the cooling air finds the more mature souls rcturn.ing to normal with the understanding of age, while the youthful elements feel no diminishing of the day. staff of technicians who wiH be July 6 to 10, Shakespeare's rol- concerned in the production. de- licking comedy, \Twelfth Night\; T~ :\\'illy partmeut. It will mark Mr. Co- July 13 to 17, an old favorite, \The Willy, Willy, Si1!y Billy, burn's first visit here this spring. Be.aux' Strategem\ by George The succe\\ of Call It A Da,y is, I suppose, due to many people and let them take their credits. But no small part of that success is the actors' right. The cast is nothing short of brilliant. No one member of it is a scintillating star, all the parts are fat, and the cast ap- proaches the happy task with great· good humor. Alice Brady, Frieda Inescourt, Ian Hunter, Olivia. De Havilland, Bonita Granville, Roland Young and a host of more than able support players make C!Ul It A Day superb entertainment. Goodbye Variety Proctor's closes vaudeville season this week-end with a show that is worse than last week's, If possible. No Regrets. We hope you ar·e having fun Acco1·ding to Mr. Calvin, general Farquhar; July 20 to 24, one of With your m•er·>tntPments of pip manager, Mr. Coburn has been ac- Mr. Coburn's successes, \The Plu- ers' payments tive in New York city, endeavor- tocrat\ by Arthur Goodrich and And young lovers all on the run. ing to sign guest ar.tists and nota- based on the .novel by Booth Tark- The affairs prol!lenade, like peas ble players for appearances during ington; July 27 to 31, George in the pod the festival season, July 6 to Bernard Shaw's \The Devil's Dis- Are waiting fm· you to shell, August 13. in the outdoor theater. ciple\; August 3 to 7, a play now And we'll bet our- hat and a m:w A number of prominent stage and being selected; August 10 to 14, a one at that screen stars have been approached, ~oted comedy by Moliere, entitled, That you'll smudge the thing like it is said, but prior committments· 'The Bourgeois Gentleman.\ hell. in Hollywood has been the primary \High entertainment value,\ add- Willy, Willy, Silly Billy, cause in delaying definite ac- ed Mr. Calvin, \as well as an ad- How does your- column grow ceptances. ~erence to the . realm of comedy With unkind tales of unwary males \It is anticipated,\ said Mr. Cal- 1s the keynote m the selection of And lots of drunks all in a row? vin, \that as a result of Mr. Ca- plays for this seaso.n,\ These are the nower.s, the fair burn's visit one or two prominent It is also announced that !rome- young flowers- stage personalities will be an.- diately followil:\g commencement That lately sprang and stood nounced for leading t'oles this sum- at Union College; the alumni gym- Till you felled tile heads in their mer. It may be stated at this nasium will be transformed into flower beds, . time, however, that the festival a well eq.Uipped indoor theater Of those outside the brotherhood.; company will be of an unUsually with treatment fQ.r better acoustics H. high calibre With some of the fav- <Continued on Page 4)

Page Four Russ Morgan Plays For 600 At Prom Gymnasium Will Be Decorated As a Ship; Silver Brace- lets for Favors (Continued from Page 1l The social lists for the weelr-end !lre: THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 14, 1937 COHEN BREASTS THE WAVES By HENRY n. HARTMANN Dean LYJln Hough To Preach Sunday Head of Drew The()logical. Sentiltary Visits Union J<m 'fhird 'l'ime Dr. Lynn Harold Hough, Dean of Drew Theological Seminary, Drew University, Ma<iison, N. J., will S R [ h C 1 h d h' · · t speak on the subject \Words and . ~.a. P olen as pas.se ·· lS swnn.rn1ng est. Things\ at .the chapel services sun- Alpha Delta Phi Guests of Alpha Delta Phi for the Junior Prom are: Alwin Ban- nock with Prudence Wagoner of Albany; George Farley with Vir- ginia Dearstyne of Albany; John l•'isher with Ruth Farley of Albany; Stewat·t Palos with Dorothy O'Bry- an of Russel Sage; Thomas Ralston with Betty Mendleson of Vassar; Ca1ltoh Garrison with Jayne C. Buckley of Albany; WaHace Hug he,; with Margaret R. Cooney of Syra- cus<'; and Hichard Synder with Marjorie L. Leibel of Schenectady. After splashing down .the length of the Foote 1\lemorial day at 1t O:cloc!{ in the Memorial I J 1 · h 'l · Chapel. The services a1·e :broad· oo 111 t e .\1. Hmni Gymnasiun:1 early Wednesday., Cohen cast by station VIGY. '37, was declared efficially passed in Physical EducatioH by Profe:ssor Bough was born in J. Harold Wittner, Directol· of A tl•letics. 1877. and his ftf'ty-eight years have crowded with intense and varied Witnesses of the ceremony we1·e Edwin Fitz, college experience. Bis frequent visits to trainer and William R. uril·kl'l)SOn , 39 . Great Britain as an exchange vv preacher during the summer Betw<>en 11 and 12 a. m. on • months ·have given him contacts Wedne,;day, Collen entered the throughout the Empit•e, and he has pooL After· ducking under to get C. JJ\ • Fowle RecOilllllelldS become a familiar figure in Canada \\ k • p bl S through his religious work in Mont- used to the water, which, as he n or ln · ll ic ervice real, Toronto, Winnipeg, Regina, said later, \id entirely too cold,\ Edmonton, and Calgat·y. His lee- Ralph began to swim about a bit, Tuesday, May 11 . The most tures for the .Annual· Conferences !to see if he could do it, he con- worthwhile and most hon 01 cable of of the Methodist Episcopal Church all public services available to a have r.at•ried him. repeatedly from Beta ThPta Pi Beta Theta Pi will have a booth at Junior Prom tonight and will hold a formal dinner dance tomor- l'OW night at t•he chapter house. Edward Carpenter of Amsterdam is chairman ot the dance committee and the chap('ron,; a1'e Mr. and Mrs. T. Bailey. Mr. and Mrs. Orin T. Fa!'l'ell, and Dt·. and Mrs. Overton Luhr. The hou~e guests are: Vi- bert Fryer with Carol Stone of ::lkidmore College; Ernest M. B1·own with Thelma Turclt of Univen;ity of Los Angeles; Grant Smith with Louise Funk of Sltidmore; Alex· ander Merriman with June Henry of Univer:olty of Buffalo; Charles ::>weet with Victoria Allen of Smith Colleg~; William Derrick with Hetty Andrew of Connecticut Col· l~ge for Women; Summer Irish with Emelie Naylor of Vassar Col· lege; John Maxwell with Pat Sulli· van of Trinity ! Washington, D. C.); Dandridge Braman with Anne Nimo of Skidmore; Walter Shaw with Shirley Fleck of Mt. Holyoke College; Harold Sanderson with ~sther Sanderson of University of California; Rollin Twining with Jane Gillespie of Finch School; Howard Smith with Audrey Brott of Wellesley; Albert S. Knight with Betty Shew of Green Mountain Junior College. fessed later>. Following a bit of coast to coast in the United States. col'lege graduate is a position with coaching by Ed Fitz and Willy the Social Security Board of the He has 'had published many books Wilkinson, he wall{ed· to the deep federal government, c. w. Fowle, o;'1 religious and lay subjects. end of the pool and slipped in. field representative of the board in This visit will be Professor Already a bit winded by his earl- charge of seven local counties, told Hough's thi!:'d to the Union College ie.r experiments. s. Ralph fo,und Union college students in Daily As- chapel· services. He was here in the going a bit hard. Wilkinson, sembly today. October of 1934, and again on Feb- who swam alongside, kept up a \We can stand a great deal of ruai·y 2. 1936. steady flow of encouragement criticism without any reflection -- ---- o---~-- while Cohen splashed his way against the original makers,\ he down the pool, but by the time added, \because a project such as they wer·e six or eight feet from Social Security cannot be perfect in the other end, about \three cen· its first form. There are various tul'ies\ later, the stell.dy rhythm of major changes in mind for the next Homeless Yale Stlldent Finds Rejuge in Union Chi Psi Chi P,;i will have a booth at Junior Pt·om tonight and will hold Ralph's overhand stroke began to few years. falter and the numerals on the \We can safely say that within side of the pool we1e blurred and 10 years about 40 million people dancing before his eyes. Just as will be covered by Social Security. hP was about to give up and allow It will do away with the break- himselt to sinlt down among the down of public moral and combat mermaids and chlorine watel', he any possible depression in the fu- found his fingers touching the end, ture by providing some assured and with his last bit of energy, form of security. Do not feel that drew himself the remaining three the. benefits will be too meager; in feet. a time of need security such as this Thursday afterno<~n found s. R. offers will come in handy.\ C. feeling rather stiff and sore, o---- but happy. \If I'd. taken the test Program for Commencement a day later,\ he told the reporter. In Charg·e of 1937 Committee \! wouldn't be able to go to Prom. I u,;etl a lot of muscles I didn't even know I had.\ Ed Fitz was considerably im- pressed by Ralph';; feat. \With a little training,\ he said. \he'd make the swimming team, as of the past few years.\ He also hinted that Ralph used an overhand stroke because he couldn't stay on his sidP lon~ enough to use a side- stroke. Cohen. a day after passing the ~wimming test, had. several com- ments to make. \Th<' water in the pool is entit·ely too cold,\ he said. \I still don't like the showers. The Gym is not worthy of a place with- .in the walls. of an institution dedi· cated to academic endeavor.\ Wednesday, May 12.-The activi- ties for the coming Commencement Sea.:;on will be placed in the charge of the Committee on Public Cere- monies, of which Professor Harold A. La!Tabee i,; chairman, it was announced by President Dixon Ryan Fox today. Other members of the committee are Professor Charles B. Hurd, Professor Egbert K. Bacon, Dr. El- mer A. Tidmarsh, Professor Wil- liam W. Bennett, Dr. Charles N. Waldron, Mr. Milton M. Enzer, and Professor Charles T. Male. ----- -o---- XotE\ for Dean Garis! One :penniless and very weary Yale J·llnior, .approximately two hundred m Hes due west off his homewanJ course, and not believ- ing 'himself equal to a night on one of the free bunks in the local g·aol :stopped at thE.' P~i U bouse Tues- day night an<l 1 eceived food and t·efl·es hmen t f1om the interested brothers. a formal dinner dance at the lodge tomorrow night. Clyde Marshall of Roslyn, Long Island, is chairman of the dancE' committee and the chap- erons are Mr. and Mrs. William H. C. Lehman of Scotia, and Mr. and Mt·s. J. Leslie Schoolcraft of Schenectady. The house guests are: Douglas Murphy with Harriet Schwe1tly of Passaic; Donald Hen- derson with Christine Legge of Sltidmore; Fritz Hawley with Ruth Yeaw of Skidmore; Clyde Marshall with Marion Carlson of Sltidmore; Jo:seph Bradbury with Doris Young of Skidmore; Donald Ford with Kathleen Bayly of Trinity College; Henry Stephenson with Cornelia Han i~on of Wellesly; Jack Sloat- man with Jane Stephenson of Har- cuin School; William O'Connor with Margaret \V11lane of Framingham Teacher's College; Russell De:,•o with Betty Cargill of Binghamton; Clinton Brown with Peggy Allen of Bennington; Ned Mure with Vir· gi nia MurP of Schenectady; Wil- Ham S. Schaill with Geraldine Ar· ledge of Coral Gables, Florida; and John Colby with Jewel Read of Holyoke. Mass. When asked if he intended to en- dow an S. Ralph Cohen Memot·ial Pool sometime in the future, Cohen replied, \Now that I have earned my dE-gree, I am not considering such future beneficences at this time. Despite the scurrilous re· marks made by the Concordi. I did pass the swimming test in 1937 at Camp Cherokee, at Beach Lalte, A fine of $5 will be demanded frum any student of Pennsylvania State College who misses a class within 24 hours of a vacation. En· trance to classes will be baned until the money is paid. CONNELLY BROTHERS D~IRY, Inc:. lndepPndents Pennsylvania. \I wish to thank Mr. Hal Wlttn<'l'. Mr. Ed Fitz. Mr. Fred Parhs and Mr. William Wilkinson for their help--and the rest of the campus for its advice.\ Ralph said the last with a sniff. As for the hour chosen fo!' Ll1e test, Cohen said, \I knew that lf I had been fully awake and in my senses I never would have done it, thprefm·e I did it before noon.\ ---o,--- AMERICAN Al LAUNDRY The Moot Perfoot La.lJD.dl7 Work In the O&pltol Dl11trlct Phone 4-8166 lOSCl Barrett St. 1858 H.AtJIBURG STREET PHONE 2·091 0 THE CAMPUS BARBER SHOP Festiral and lnstituM i\'eari1tg Openin~ Date Basement of Silliman Hall ; RESULTS OF THE TRACK ME;ET No. of Points Entt•ance Men Sco••ed Points Additional TotiLI Fratemity Delta Upsilon 9 28 40.000 Beta Theta Pi ..... . 6 Psi Upsilon . .. . . . . . . . 11 Lambda Chi Alpha .. Kappa Alpha ....... . Delta Phi .......... . Chi. Psi ............. . Phi Gamma Delta .. . Phi Delta Theta .... . Kappa Nu ........... 10 Phi Sigma Delta .... . Neutrals ........... . South College North College Alpha Phi Delta .... Sigma Chi 97 26 24 21 12 8.5 8.5 5 4 0 0 13 12 10 5 2 40.000 40.000 40.000 40.000 40.000 40.000 40.000 40.000 40.000 40.000 .000 .000 .000 .000 .000 Intra murals Points 60;000 55.718 51.432 45.003 25.716 18.215 18.215 10.715 8.572 .000 .000 27.859 25.716 21.430 10.715 4.286 Points lOOiOOO 95.718 91:432 85.003 65.716 58.215 58.2'15 50.715 48;572 40:000 40:000 27.859 25:716 21.430 10.715 <1.286 Th<' third round of the spring tennis and horseshoe tournaments must be completed on or before Thursday, May 20th. Opponents must arrange theil· own matches. Varsity Big Five in Battlng Name and Pos. G Jones. rf, p .............. 4 Brown, 1b ................ 5 Thomas, cf . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Wiley, rf ................... 5 Yunich, lf .................. 5 AB 13 19 21 12 13 R 1 9 2 1 2 H 6 8 7 4 4 Aver. .462 .421 .333 .333 .308 The non-Fratemity men and their guests are as follows: Miss Virginia Murray of Schenectady with Theo- dore Podbielski; Miss Eleanor Beck of Schenectady with John Schultz; Miss Catherine Roddy of Johns- town with R. Benham; Miss Jane Cease of Schenectady with Jacl{ Quinlan: Miss Sylvia Krisnecl{ of Schenectady with Cortis Morrison; Miss Marian Heath of Schenectady with Ernest DuMond; Miss Oliva Neadle of Schenectady with Hildege Loiselle; Miss Constance Tessier of the College of St. Rose with Wil- liam Burke; Miss Mary Neary of Russell Sage with Walter Burke; Miss Evonne Fox of Albany with Clayton Smith; Miss Elizabeth Baker of Schenectady with William John; Miss Anne Pard us of Sche- nectady with Jerome Maleck; Miss Fae Smith of Hunter College with Harry Silleck; Miss Marian Lippin- cott of Peekskill with Robert Lead- better; Miss Eleanor Baker of Corning with Ted Robinson; Mrs. R. H. Shaw of Broadalbin with Mr. Shaw; Miss Harriet Tracltten berg of Elizabeth, N. J ., with S. Ralph' Cohen; Miss Jeanette Eisenbud of' Montclair State Teachers with Hy- man Enze1; Miss Gold Em:er of Elizabeth, N.J .• with Henry Seider; Miss Harriet Luft of Albany with Ralph Blakeman. I A Special Service for Union Students 1 Continued from Page 3) as one of the improvements ANTHONY F. BARBIERI HOURS: 1:30-7:00 P. M. planned. This auditorium will be ~===~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'::::~~==~~~~~~ used every Thursday throughout the festival season for matinee performances of the current play, and as heretofore, it will also be used in the event of inclement Delta OW The guest of Delta Chi for the Junior Prom are: Charles McCar- thy with Margaret Hemmlngway of Watervliet; DeSales Sullivan with <Continued on Page 6) --· - ---o---- Ca.bbage Odor Odorless cabbage, created at Cor- nell University. will go out on the market in about two years. That much time will be required to pro- duce enough seed to make it com- mercially possible to grow the new type cabbage. weather. Under tha direction of Edward L. Carroll, chairman of the Festi- val's Institute of the Theatre-the summer school of the theatre on the campus-the plans for the drama courses during June, July and August are now being made. A greater number of applidat.ions for study in the Institute have been received by the registrar, Mr. Enzer, and the program for 1937 is expected to excel that of the previous two years. Outstanding authorities in the drama will be visiting lectures during the sum- mer. A complete summary of what Union College is offering in the way of drama may be obtained· by the Institute catalogue recently published. ----o•---- Homf', Peg \Peg the only woman cab- driver i.n Ann Arbor, Michigan, was approached recently by three UnivNsity of Michigan sorority girls who wanted to 'lcnow how good were chances of their ob- taining jobs driving tax:ls dut'ing the sutnmer. .. To The Rescue As usual, THE U:'-110;-,r I:\!:'-J offers itself as a lifesaver for 'Hapless, Hungry' Union :\len on Saturday Eves., , Especially this week-end for the Glee Clubbers and Har- lemites. For you weary trippers of the Light Fantastic' ... '\'e offer an oasis guaranteed to cure. The dog tired ami to givr new life to prom trotters. THE UNION INN 517 UNIOt'll S1. '-· !. '• .A ,. I. = Pt ba: to< fie Tu s the the per. test T will er·e~ mal ton pro ves· yea sea· T pro me1 in finf get VI its the inn ao ple. dou rea1 Car. Ma1 whi by SCOJ II Wil nini gie< and u Tho 1\lye Uru \\'yl a-c: Mill Mar Am: Yun Wal To \ Dur Fuc SLra Stat J:lta1 Hus Lat· Sea· Neli lJ. : Bry P. Hac To a- 7th Unit Wil T· -81 out- bas• I.ea V:: ·C of va1 alu tiOJ for tha Sin in rna tw< int yeE Un vit1 1 Ca· ca: tai: tai Ca· tai: Ch caz He 11 in~ ser Fii lia1 19E Po ( Go St~ Lo lor Oop Er '33 '32 Wi La ge1 Fo Alb ah Pa '29 Tt

.462 .421 .333 .333 .308 ago. have meet of Doug Dave last edge op- : • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • iii • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • oh '21 • • , . • I ' li .1·, •, 1. ,, 'I .... ! \.. .A ,- 1.. THE CONCORDIENSIS, :FRIDAY, MAY 14, 1937 Page Five Nine vs. Albany Senators Today; Stickmen Meet Tufts Here Senators in for 'Tough Game Playing Union Here Today Pl'Ofessionals Playing Dutchmen at 3 P.M. in Exhi· bi tion Contest f ()1' Benefit of Outing Club's Commemoration S l'ORTS CALENDAR 'l'oday Ease).)a!l, Union vs. Albany Sen- a tor-s, Alexander Field, 3:00 p. ID. Varsity Lacrosse, Union vs. Tufts College, Library Field. Varsity Tennis, Union vs. Ham- ilton, Union Courts. 'l'omot•row Fresh man Lacrosse, Union vs. R. P: I. Freshmen. FI~esltman Lacrosse Team Plays R. P. I. Yearlings; Tennis Team Defeats Syracuse by 5-4 Score Lacrosse Thre!at Union Ten Faees Bostonians Today Last Home Intercollegiate Contest; Union Favored To Win Match Right i:n the mood fot· this week-end's activities the Unio·n baseball team wilil meet the pl'ofessional Albany Senat01·s today at 3 G'clock in an exhibition contest on Alexander field, for the benefit of the Outil1g Club's fund for th.e The Union freshman lacmsse Tucket·man Plaque. ·team wm :be gunning for its first victory tomorrow at the expense of an untrjed R. P. I. team. The Alex- The Union College varsity tennis, team will be out for its second• win of the season this afternoon when it faces the Hamilton netmen on the Garnet courts this afternoon. The Dutchmen registered their first victory at Syracuse Wednesday, beating the Orange 5 to 4 on the Upstate team's courts. With the squad at full strength in the match today with the Continentals, Union is favored to talte the Buff and Blue, which recently topped the Hartwick netmen 7 to 2, after prev-, i0usly losing to Colgate 8 to 1. At Syracuse Fritz Hawley, Ben Rathbun, and Bernie Salad won their singles matches, each t~Iking three sets to do it. Union lost the other three singles matches and took two of the three doubles, Haw- ley and Dwore beating Melvin and Dixon and the Orton-Salad combin- ation winning over the Steetes- Sil ve1·man pair. The final home intercollegiate varsity lacrosse game of the sea· s<>n will find the Union stickmen meeting the Tufts College team on Library Field at 3:00 o'clock this afternoon. Although little is known of the Tufts squad, coach Hark- ness, profiting by last week's unex- pected loss to Dartmouth, is leaving no stone unturned in ironing out the flaws that came to light in Sat- urday's contest, and is bending every effort to put Union back in the win column at Tufts' expense. Hits DQuble Lange & Rcapp Pharmac:v Cor. N~tt Tertace and Slate St;, DRUGS-CANDY SODA TOILET ABTIOLES Phone 2-2903 ander Hamilton game last Satur- day showed several. glaring defects in the Ereshmen style of play, and Coach :Wyatt has been working the team h,ard all week so that it should :ohow great improvement. 'l!his :year is the first time that R. P. I. has put a. lacrosse team on ,[he .field·, and even this year· the team has not yet ·been sanctioned by the college authorities, the ' teatn being formed by in·terested students. The Troy team is, of nec- essity, an unknown quantity, al- though the team is not restricted to fresb:men, and there are several capa,ble .players on the squad. The starting line-up for the cubs is un.ce:o:tain, but George England, Eugene Fink, and Stewat t Palos will probably compose the attack, while Merlin Fay, Mike Stillman, an<l Job.nny Altemus will talte care of the defense. Mason Hutchins, Charlie Trumbull, Merlin Brock- meyel·, Bert Britten, John Arm- strong, Guy Barton, and Bill Whit- beck wiJl probably be sent into the fray. Bf:.J, Nugent ,as usual, will be custodian of the cage. ---0--- Union Links Team Topped by Willia1ns -~~o---- Swimming Test JACK SMI'l'H Excluding the Alumni game on June 12, today's contest will mat·k the final home appearance of many of the Union squad including George Burd, Bill Potts, Bill Rey· lj ~ .. nolds, Elliot Fraser, Hal Vandecar, IN n \MURALS Jack Smith, and Ken MacMurray, The following have not passed ·. Trut. · , and the boys will be out there giv- the required swimming test and are I'-;;;=============;:! lng their best for the occasion. urged to report to the attendant at ·- Coach Harkness has been exper- the pool at their earliest conven- SOFTBALL RESULTS imen ting with different combina- ience. May 11, Lambda Chi Alpha 3. Phi· Uons in an attempt to bring out the 1940~G. N. Alper, H. Benjiman, Gamma Delta 4; Theta Delta Chi most efficient one. Today's line-up, G. Brandes, J. J. Cary, M. Clmor- won by forfeit from Alpha Phi h<>wever, is still in doubt, although elli, G. E. Conrad, J. M. Coulter, C. Delta; DElta Phi 6, Chi Psi 4; Delta it is highly probable that the start- R. Deyo, V. J. Dugan, R. A. Egan, Upsilon 9, South College 7. lng team will be essentially the W. A. Fallon, J. FitzSimons, C. H. May 12, Kappa Nu 4, Sigma Phi same as has been used in the prev- Gulles, E. W. Hannock, P. T. Hill, 3; Beta Theta Pi 3, Phi Sigma Del- ious games. In the practice scrim- M. A. Humphrey, N. D. Light, R. ta 2; Alpha Delta Phi 38, Theta Nu mages Doug Blue has, upon occa- Nevius, P. Newberry, D. H. Pasco, Epsilon 16; South College 22, Kappa sions, been in the center circle, and W. Powers, J. P. Shanley, C. E. Alpha 19; Phi Gamma Delta. 17, although it is doubtful that Doug Smith, A. E. Sweet, M. G. Tidball, Kappa Sigma 12; Psi Upsilon 13, will start at center, he is always D. J. Wait, R. J. Williams. Phi Sigma Kappa 3. ready to fill that gap if something 1939- K. A. McLeod, G. F. Per- Games ~lay 18, Kappa Sigma vs. should happen to Fraser. Joe Paul, kins, W. F. Rehberg, W. C. Robbins, Lambda Chi Alpha; Theta Delta Ja<!k Smith, and Hal Vandercer I. Zweig. Chi vs. Neutrals; Delta Phi vs. Phi have borne the brunt of the attack 1938~G. E. Otis, R. L. Royal, J. Delta Theta; Delta Upsilon vs. Kap- w<>rlt in the scrimmages, and they A. Scully. pa Alpha. will probably take care of that de- partment today. KODAHS RADIOS FOUNTAIN FENS Expe1-t Repairing J. T. & D. B. LYON \Everything Photograpblc\ 236 State St. Phone: 4-8647 w Phi Delta Theta .......... 4 Chi Psi ,, ...•............. , 3 Delta Phi ............ , .. , , 4 Psi Upsilon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Phi Sigma Kappa .... , • . . . 0 Western Black or Grain $6.00 t() $10.00 a Pair Serving Old Union 43 Yoors PATTON & HALL 245 State St . Bill Reynold's leg, injured in the Dartmouth game, is healing, and it is hoped that Bill will be in there to fortify the defense this after- noon. Scrappy Ken MacMurray who L was ineligible for last week's game 1 will be in uniform and raring to 2 go this afternoon, which should 1 also help boost Union's stock. 5 5 A NEW SYMBOL OF a national organiza- tion dedicated to the sci~ entific control of dairy products, this seal is your assurance of finer ice cream . GUERRA PHARMACY ... ..... ~ - ·600 U11ion St., cor. Barrett Phone 2-9419 l CLOVERLAND CREAMERY PHONE 2-4265 FOR PROMPT SERVICE 919 STATE ST • YOU NIGHT OWLS finish ACME BARBER SHOP your WHERE SERVICE IS A PLEASURE Junior Promenade ·509 :UNION ST. NEAREST THE CAMPIIS AT \ GAZETTE PRESS Printers Opposite the Van Curler .. : ::: m m Ill ::: ~u m m m ::: m Ill m m m m ;:: ::: m m m m ~~~ Hi ::: m m ::: m Ill Ill !!5 i~i m :~: i I j I ' I j \ I j I ·'

Page Six THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 14, 1937 Female Guests From Many Colleges Here This Weekend ~------------------------------- Russ Morgan Plays For 600 At Prom Gymnasium Will Be Decorated As a Ship; Silver Brace- lets for Favors \Cuntiuueli hom Page 4) Helen LeForestier of Troy; Wil- ford LeForestiet· with Irene Wood of Troy; Edward Armitage with Anne Rinehart of Newburgh; James Lotoridge with Norma Wil- kins uf Buffalo; and J use ph Cliffor·d with Eleanor Lotltian of Glov.,n>- ville. Delta l'hi The gue:;t of Delta Phi fur the Juniot· Prom at·e: DeWitt Bmwn with Mary Noonan of St. Ro~e Col- lege; George Doyle with Barbara Brett of Skidmore; Willard Haga- dorn with June Winegar of Albany State; Elmer Johnson with Cath- erine Hartman of Maria ville; Lang- don Wagoner· with Janet Gurney of N.J.; Robert Hanson with Mary Margaret Pappa of Albany State; William K. Potts with Doris Rin- ker of Bloomfield, N. J.; Gilbert C. Kopf with Virginia Hayes of Skid- more; William Nottingham with Mary Agneil Metzger of Albany State; Carl Faelten with Mary C. Farmer of Skidmore; Robert Rich- urJ,;on with Ruth Frost of West Orange, N. J.; Robert Clark with Wilma Br·osch of Bloomfield; Her- bert ·zuhr with Winifred Tournier of Schenectady; Robert Notting- ham with Rusetnary Lafferty of Albany State. I,amba Chi Alpha Lambda Chi Alpha will have as gue,;ts; A. A. Cu.nale with Marie P. Canale of Glens Falls; M. Canale with Dorothy Jepson of Glens Falls; John Hazard with Emily Bi,;choff of Ballston; W. C. Rub- bins with Gwendolyn Fox of Sche- nectady; W. Krueget· with Mar- jorie Ergmann of Schenectady; Wtlliam Thomas with Doris Perry uf Whitehall; Louis Thompson with Ruby Stewart of Albany State. l'hi Delta Theta Albany State; Harry Paton with Phi Delta Theta will ho'ld a pic- Virginia Van Rensselaer of Morns; nic on <'laturday aftel'!10on, to be lo'rank PhilLips with Jane Rogers followed by a clo~ed dance. T. Paul uf Schenectady; Edward Prest with Higgins of Schenectady is the Rheta Armbr•uster· of Skidmore; chairman of the dance committee. Kenneth Bt·own with Mary Peck Chaperons are: Dean and Mr~. of Skidmore; Richard Keyes with C. l<'. F. Garis, Mrs. D. T. Coleman Alice Brunjes of Skidmore; Robert and Mr~. E. E. Thornton. The Hinckle with Katherine Sawyer of guests ar·e: Richar·d Kennedy with Schenectady; Thomas Burke with Dorothy Spellman of Chicago; Mel Dorothy Ki,;tler of Rochester; Hargreave with Madeline Queen of Harry Squire with Barbara Han- New Yorlt; Laurence Clinton with chette uf St. Lau1ence Unive•·sity Mary Jane Lawless of Syracuse; MonisFuller with Mary Hawkes of William Rynasko with Margaret Elmira College; LeHuy Walbridge Reilly of Albany; Arnold Collins with Elaine Oberwager of Skid- with Elsie Helm bolt of Troy; mor·e; Alford White with Dorothy Robert Glennon with Irene Gar- Wike of Endicott; and Benjamin denier of Schenectady; Paul Hig- Lord with Kay Schilling of Skid- gins with Jean Sawyer of Upper more. Montclair; Ror M.oon with Phyllis Delta Upsilon Scott of Utica; David Ring with The guest.s of Delta Upsilon for Duris Yenter· of Long Island; Gor- the Junior Prom are: Milton Bedell don Thomton with Anita Stitz of witb Mary Alice Shangle of Skid- West New York, N. J.; Harold more; WatTen Gammons with Jane Vandecar with Elizabeth Wiles of Maxwell of Cortland Normal; Wil- Albany: Alan Van Wert with Jean- Ham Mulvey with Barbara Weiler ette Morton of Long Is- of Well:; College; Robert Everset land; Dan Wffiton with Eliza- with Dorothy Hobbs of Skidmore; beth Gibson of Brooklyn; Vincent Edgar Moulton with Frances Fish Smith of Schenectady; Winterton of Skidmore; Howard Brown with Day with CathNine Ca.rroll of Elizabeth Fox of Ogdensburg; John Troy; Hany Myers with Berenice Gilmour with Ruth Proctor of Ryan of Albany; John Coleman with Ogdensburg; Edward Bany witll Marjut·y Galloway of Saranac Lake; Helen Mackey of Skidmore; and Claude Wiley with Gladys Gilbert Paul Teare with Helen ·Zelt of Skid- uf Chazy; Don Buchanon with more. Kappa Alpha Cathet·ine Heldt of Am.,terdam, and Richard Slatterly with Jane Lodge of Schenectady. Pili Gamma Delta CALENDAR Today 8:30 p. m.-\'L'he Wlnd a,nd the Rain,\ Mountebanks Theatre, 10:00· p. m.-Junior Promenade, Gymnasium. T<>nlOI'l'OW Watet'town; Doug Blue with Bee Buckingham of Schenectady; F. B. Begor with Regina Mur- phy of Skaneaties; F. P. Clif- ton with Roth Overbaugh of Schenectady; L. G. Barton with Betty Barton of' Plattsburg; G. Miller with Jeanne Wt'ighter of Rutherfm·d·, N. J.; .J. C. Davis with Rosalind Robb of South Orange,. N. J.; D. H. Lescohier· with Ann Sanford of Schenectady; H. E. Sands with Jean Perry of Herki- mer·; J. ·M. Perry w1th Barbara Wood <Jf Herkimer; S, M. Schrade with Roberta Kelly of Schenectady; M. Ames with Nancy Osborne of Rochester; H. H. Tanner with Lois Long of Clarksdale, Miss.; R. J. J:o'eldma-n with Janet Hosltins of· Atlanta, Ga.; W. J. Wrightton with Betty Pr·iest of Hudson, Mass.; J. E. Glen with Katherine Deering of Canton; W. C. Dennison with Dorothy Harnishfeger· of Schenec- tady; s. F. Rice with Clal'issa Green of Albany; E. L. Taylor with Hannah Parker of Hudson; and F. H. Robert with Patricia Darnell of New Yot·k. 1:00 p.m.-International Broad- cast, Organ Recital, Dr. E. A. 'I'idrnarsh, Memorial Chapel. 8:30 p. m.-\The Wind and the Rain,\ Mountebanks Theatre. George are: H. I. Glassman with Schenectady with Averill Stewart; Thelma Siegel of Albany; Marvin Miss Jean Doremus of Schenec- Dwore with Estelle Sommers of .tady with •Frank Freihofe.r; Miss Albany-; H. M. Lifset with ViGlet Kay Wood .of Hanover, N. H. with Rubin of Albany; Jacob Amazon John ·cane; Miss Nancy Bogle of wHh Merle Rosenberg of Ro.ches- . Wappinger FaHs with William ter.; D. Schron with Eleanor Fried- White; Miss Louise Thompson of man of Schenectady; A. J. Hor· Bryne, Mawr with Larry AchiUes; witz with Elaine Er.nstein of Sche- Miss Marianne Henry of Vassar nectady,; H. L. :schultz with Ellen· with John Brand; Miss Chal'lotte : Shirley nf Schenectady. The chap- , Ochs of Smith with Albert Borden. · erone will be Dr. Joseph Naumoff, Theta Delta Ohi 7:00 p. rn.-Upper Hudson Asso- ciation of Phi Beta Kappa Dinner, Hale House, Speaker, President Tyler Dennett of Willla.ms CoHege, \Propaganda and ·E::ducation.\ : Schenectady; and the chairma,n of '11 tt d th ' the Dance Committee is Ha:Fold A.. Theta Delta Chi WI a ·en , e Psi Upsilon Psi Up~ilon will hold a week-entl housepa.rty with a dinner and dance of Saturday evening. Elliott Dodge of Pittsburg- is dance chairman of the affair, chape1·ones for which are Mrs. Albert Stevenson of Brooklyn, Mrs. Harold W. B>a'ker of Rochester, Mr. and Mrs. H. L. Achilles and Mr. and Mrs. Gordon R. Silber of Schenectady. Dick Can- non and his orchestra of Schenec- Stwday 11:00 a. m.--Sunday .Service, Preacher, Dr. Lynn Harold Hougll, Drew Theological Sem- inat•y, Madison, N. J., Memo- rial Chapel. 4 :@0 .p. m.-Grgan Recital, Dr. E. A. Tidma·rsh, Memorial Cha?el. ~Ionday 8:30 p. m.-\The Wind and the Rain,\ Mountebanks Theatre. i:30 p, m.--Band Rehearsal, Tt·op·'hy Room, Gymnasium. Tuesday 10:00 a. rn.-Daily Assembly, Spea.lter, Mrs. Roger T. Stone, \Old. Mexico,\ Memorial Cha- pel. 7:30 ·P- m.- -Newman Club Meet- ing, Silliman Hall. tady will furnish music for dane- dance chairman for Phi Sigma ing. Kappa which will hold a house Guests include: Miss Elizabeth pat-ty <JVet· the week-end and a Dou\t of Russell Sage with Ed- joint dance with Sigma Chi on ward Stewart; Miss Winifred Saturday evening. Dr. and Mrs. Horstman of Briarcliff with David Henry Letterton of Schenectady, B. Miller; Miss Alice Booth of El- Mr. an·d Mrs. George Russell and mira with Ansell Sweet; Miss Doro- Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Bacon of thy Brunton of Kenmore with Albany will be the chaperones, and Phillip Duchscherer; Miss Louise· Howat·<! Seim and his orchestra Phillips of Delmar· with Richard. will fumish music. Mastet·son; Mrs. Payson Hatch of Guests for the week-end include: Schenectady with Mr. Hatch; Miss Miss Janet Roob of Schenectady Jane Thompson of Vassar with Wil- with Ro·bert Young; Miss Thelma liam Hawkes: Miss Jane Adams of Mille!' of Albany with William For- Auburn with Charles Underwood; man; Miss Ruth Benway of Troy Miss Margaret Clark of Smith with with Ralph Denton; Miss Flor- Wallace Baker; Miss Penny Ferry ence Lovell of Skidmore with Ray of Skidmore with Jack Smith; Miss Denton; Miss Marian Wesley of Florence Grant of Dumont, N. J., Schenectady with Robert Willsy; with Ral'ph Thatcher; Miss Franc Miss Lilly White of Elmira with Hollingshead of Auburn with Ar· W. M:raray; Miss Doris Estey of thur ·Grant; Miss Florence Dodge Albany with Giles Clark; Miss of Pittsburg with Ernest Allnutt; Paula Niles of Lafayette, Ind.; H. Miss ·Charlotte Zeigler of B<altimore B. Whitbeck with Mrs. H. B. Whit- with Ray Lewis; Miss Doris Stew- beck of Alba.ny; Joseph Boychuck art of Wellesley with Albert Stev- with Edith Cassavant of Delmar. enson; Miss Ade Horn of New Phi Sigma Delta York with Edward Thomson; Miss Junior Prom, for which Dr. and Fdeunmn of Sc.henectady. Mis. Patterson French and Mrs. Sigma Chi J·. F. Morgan of Olean wHI be chap- Sigma Cbi will hold a house erones. Guests will include: Miss party and dance on SaturcLay eve- Marga.ret Brown of Schenectady ning, The chaperones are Mr. and with James MacKenzie, Jr.; Miss Mrs. Lawr·ence Brost of Sche.nec- Mary Gross of Albany with ]\!Iason tady. Guests for the Prom and· Hutchins: Miss Virginia Wheeler house party are: Philip Mitcbill' Bf Schenectady with David Pres- with Ruth Griswold of New Haven, ton; Miss Ruth Harvey of Sche- Conn.; Robert Kling with Carolyn· nectady with Robert Doig.; Miss Walker of Chicago, lit; Severyn Hele.n Dawson of Olean with James Hasbrouck with Barbam Vander-· Morgan; Miss Ann Bates of Albany veer of 'Kingston; Kenneth Rein- with H. Ricard; Miss Ruth Hisgen hardt with Jane Gardiner of Rich-. of Albany with: C. Rudder; Miss mond, Va.; Lon Barringer with Elizabeth Reagles of Schenectady Ann Howie o-f Schenectady; James with Louis Maples; Miss· Mary Est'l'ich , with Kay Holland of O'Donnell of Albany with Stephen Schenectady; Frederick Fagai with Laning; Miss Catherine Boyd of Yvonne Miller of Schenectady; Las Vegas, Nevada with L. Travis; James Scott with Francis Mather Miss June Hall of Buffalo with W. of Boston, Mass.; Donald Miller Phillippi; Miss Colleen McGinnis with IDleanor Powers of: Schenec- of Albany with G. E. Otis, who is tady; W. v. Alexander with Mar- chairman of the dance cooomit- garet Parry of Stamford, Conn. tee; Miss Frences Shal'pe of Troy Sigma Phi with C. B. Selsmer. Sigma Phi will hold a house Theta Nu Epsilon party over the week-end, and a tea J. Bettlejeskie of Guild~rland dance on Saturday afternoon from Center is dance chairman for the 3:30 until 5:30 p. m. Richard Angle week-end, guests for which are: of Rochester is chairman of the Miss Naoma Clickner of Eagle dance committee, and tbe chaper- Mills with Halph Pearse; Miss ones include Mrs. Donald C. Bor- Irene Wllliams of Schenectady with den of Adams, Mass.; Mrs. H. L. A. Baxter; Miss Ethel Tuttle of Achilles of Schenectady. Bernie Schenectady with Frank Thorne; Collins and his orchestra of Sara- Miss Doris Diesem of Schenectady toga will furnish. dance music. The with G. Baxter; Miss Mabel \Vii- guests for the week-end are: Miss Iiams of Troy with Milton Laven- Irene Sangfeld of Berlin, Germany der; Miss Elva Nealon of Albany with Richard Angle; Miss Angelo with C. Quanot; Miss Anne Ribel Calvo o.f Guataemala with Peter of Mechanicville with H. W. Owens; Miss Margaret Bird of Harris. PROM TROTTERS NOTE! FOR YOUR REFRESHMENT HALE HOUSE WILL REMAIN OPEN ALL FRIDAY NIGHT Kappa Alpha has a booth at the Junior Prom and will hold a house party the following night. The chaperons are: Mr. and Mrs. Rich- al'd Lane Chase of Schenectady; Dr. and Mrs. Mortimer F. Sayre of Schenectady; Mr. and Mrs. Kurt von Forstmeyer of Schenectady; and Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Hutchins of Schenectady. The guests of the hol18e are: Kenneth Tompkins with Marian J. Paut of Lake Forest, Il- linois; Frederick Frost with Mal'y Wold of Schenectady; John Trum- bull with Marian Robinson of Pom- pano, Florida; Foster Brown with Ann Chandler of New York; Crom- well Mcintosh with Barbara Shel- don of Holyoke, Mass.; John Nott with Elizabeth McClellan of Chat- ham; Walter Briggs with Gertrude McKain of Schenectady; Henry Ph1 Gamma Delta will have a house party during the weekend. They wlll hul<.l a tea dance on Sat- urday aftemuun, a house dance Saturday night and a picnic in the Heldebcrg Mountains on Sunday. The chairman of the dance com- mittee is Jay C. O'Brien of Albany. The chaperon.s will be Mr. and Mrs. Leo H. Perry of Schenectady, Mr. and Mrs. Friend J, Miller of El- mira. Music for the dances will be furnished by Bill Dehey and his urchest ra form Pittsfield. Guests uf Phi Gamma Delta are: Jay O'Brien with Evelyn Connolly of Schenectady; Tiller· Schugg with Nancy Fahbank of Schenectady; R. H. Wollard with Dee Jessee of Betty Bolland of Elmira with David The guests of Phi Sigma Delta Wilder; Miss Margan•t BE'll of Mt. for their Open House Saturday ~~~e~h~~~em=:M~~~nid~~·~~p~icin~i~c~S~uinidia~y~o~n~~Li~ie~i~~~~~~i~~iiiiiiii~iiiiii~iiiil Cora Smith of Rrooklvn with Douglas Stevenson: Miss· Dorothy Buckpitt of Elmira with Jaclt An- derson. Clay with Joan Blanter of New Yorlt; Arthur Lawrence with Mary Bement of Lansing, Mich.; David Taft with Ann Berghausen of Cin- cinnati, Ohio; Charles Tt·Umbull with Joyce Patterson of Schenec- tady; Robert Tanner with Virginia Clarke of New York; and George Burd with Miriam Mohr of Sche- nectady. Kappa Nu Phi Sigma Kappa Robert Young of Scarsdale is CRARLES' (formerly Ed's) . Tit~ official lJnion College bar· ' ber for the past 26 years. Ask any upperclassmen, they lmow. Four operators. Schenecfady's greatest bal'ber. Cor. STATE and B'WAY LOUIS WASSERMAN Cj)UALITY MEAT MARKET 354 Broadway PINE GROVE DAIRY, Inc. 118 S. FERRY ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Kappa Nu ha.s a booth at the Junior Prom and will hold a house party tomorrow night. David L. Yunich of Albany and Mr. and the dance committee and the chap- erons are: Dr. and Mrs. Albert M Yunich of Albany; and Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Winig of Troy. The ~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ house guests will be: David Yunich ~- with Florence Shepera of Glens Clark Witbeck Co. \Quality Hardware Since 18ill\ 416-418 STAT.ffi ~T. ~l'henPCtad,v, N. \'. Phoneos 4-4161 • ·l-4l62 We are distributors for G. E. Mazda Lamps, Staples, Floor Wax, Valdura Paints and Enamels, Pyrex Ware, \Universal\ Electrical Appliances and Cuttlery. Falls; Herman Kessler with Tobie Schwebel of Troy; Sidney Lewis with Anne Kurr of Troy; Hanisun Karp with Rose Simon of Russell Sage; Alfred Seigle with Eve Bia- leck of State Teacher's College; Melvin Muroff with Basila For- meen of Bat·nat·d; Jerome Spellman with Blanche Krosney of Brooklyn College; Ellis Eisenstein with Thel- ma Seigal of Albany; Joseph Lu- bansky with Betty Mannes of Sche- nectady; Jerome Smith with Har- riette Scheinzeit of Schenectady; Leonard Perless with Eleanor Feld- man of Troy; Arby Halpern with Helen Levy of Smith College: Mar- L~-~;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;- ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ vin Katz with Irma Ca1·lin of ~ Brooklyn College; Eliot Hertzmark with Clara Katz of Troy; and David Stark with Sally Kahn of Vassar Kappa Sigma Kappa Sigma will hold a week- end house party with a house dance on Saturday night. The chairman of the dance committee Is Robert E. Clark of Bloomfield, N. J., and the chaperons will be Professor and Mrs. Robert W. Abbett and Mr. and Mrs. Thomas S. Brown. The guests are: John J. Morrison, Jr., with Betty Hull of Skidmore; David W. Godfrey with Marion Dietrick of Skidmore; R. Arthur Carr with SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING COMPANY ENGRAVERS for THE CONCORDIENSIS .147 JAY STREET TELEPHONE 4·9002 Elizabeth Scanlon of Bloomfield, I.!;;;;;;;;;;;==========================,....;!J VAN CURLER HOTEL • The new Coffee Shop for that morning snack or luncheon and last but not least the fine app pointments of the Tap Room ... the ideal spot for Prom gatherings. • TAP ROOM ., ,,,,' l. , . ~ r t v B F p fc ~ Yu sta pla M~ tlo wa Ch dt: 1 en• Co COl .fac do• fe!'! ne; sta tUl lea an Cl'i sta La Ka me thi Me St: in an ap m~ 011· pa. we in~ E'[ co· sts tll• pe: tUJ Tb an atx un G! m: La \T of sh !Jll BE a Ar pr. J·e~ Be w~ St In th nc th pe ba pe up an sa Jll\ th sh on ei1 w~ te pe tt: y, co to tiE dr wi AI \s h :~a ps da Ci cr th al .of

s p- ss of w. is roy and the of rne; Wil- bany w. .' -=====::::;, • Baiker Named Exchange Srudent trnsts Coburn Names Two Festival Stars Vol. LX., No. 57 ONION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, MAY 18, 1937 -~--~--~ - -·----- -- Blanche Yurk~-A~d Dt~. c: H. Stubing 1:~- Be c~M~lvey ___ Is ~Elect-ed Jlm•erford W1aiters Wage I F ·st Yfl New German Instructor lU t 1.. k H d War On Bad Manners Coes to Scotlmul ranees · arr ~o -- 1noun el!Jan s . e3 ·· -.- . D}' • F • (l•:ditt}r's note: This UJ'!icle • Student walten; at Haverford ray In ·estival b translatt'd ft·om tht\ Scht'- For Coming Seas4iln Col~ege, H~ve~fOid, Pa., ha:vp no nuctady Herold-Jmtrnal, :Jocul pat1ence WI-th ·bad munne1s Ill the ('o'bmn Announces Signing of Notable Stars on Short Campus Visit Plans Completed l•'acilities of Both Outdoor And Indoor Theatres To Be E nlarg·ed Monday, May 17. - Blanche Yut·lta and Francis Sta1·r, noted stage ·stars, at·e among the notable playet• who will appear jn 1937 Mohawk Drama Festival produc- tions, iuly 6 tht·ough August 14, it was announced -today by M1. Charles Coburn, director of the <.It arna festival. l'llr. :Coburn who spent the week- end here on the campus of Union College with a staff of technicians completing plans for inct,easing the facilities of the Outdoor and In- doot· theatres for the third annual festival, announced that he was negotiating with several stars of stage and screen. But before re- turning to New York today he re- leased the names of Miss Yurka and Miss Starr. Miss Starr Dmws Praise :Miss Starr who recently drew the critl~s· praise for the most out- standing performance in \The Lake\ in which she appeared with Katherine Hepburn, will return al- most to \home\ wlien she appears this summer in Schenectady in the Mohawk Drama Festival. Miss Starr Is a native of nearby Albany in whose schools she was educated and where she made her first stage appearance under Ft·ederick. Bond's management. She wa..s born m One- onta, but soon moved with her pa.rents to Albany where her folks were soon listed among the lead- ing citizens of the capital of the Empire State. \Widely known throughout the country-, she is one of the few stars of the stage who began near the .. top,\ for 1'!-fter he1· initial ap- pearance in Albany, she was fea- tured in New York's Murray Hill 'l'neatre Jlroduction of \Our Boys,\ an\d \'I'he Private Secvetary,\ an amusing comedy that ran and ran until It became the \Boy Meets Gil'l\ of its day, Later Miss Stan made a .gr·eat success as . Lydia Lan\\uish in the all-stu· rev1val of \'I'h:; Rivals.\ After a long series of .productions in San Francisco, she returned to the East and J!layed under the banner of Dav~d Belasco for whom she appeared m a sctii·e of persorml tJiumJlhs. Among the out.standing all-star pr<Jductions in which she engaged recently were \Diplomacy \Moor Born,;' and George Tyler's Broad- way 1uoduction of \The Beaux' Stilitagem.\ lt is in this la~t Jllay In which Miss Starr will play for the drama festival. Miss Yurka Is Well Known :Miss Y Ul ka is equally known now on the stage, screen and on the 1 adio. She has frequent!Y ap- peared in ·road attractions m A_l- bany- and Schenectady and so ,,. personally familiar to thousands of up-staters. . Miss Yurka 01 iginally tramed foi· and appeared in gtand opet·a, and sang- in the Me~.ropol!tan, Opera:s production of Pars1 fa!. It IS the1efo1 e n\o'\ st::ange that ~he should be ct edited with possessmr.- one cf the best speaking voices on either stao-e or tadio. I1er fi;.'st feutm·ed production was in Da-vid Belasco's \Th~ Wa I· ren's of Vir g;inia.\ Tnen she ap- peared in a ser!es. of come?ies and h aged! es, playmg bo.th m New York and on tour throughout t_he country. and thus had opportumty to present her distinguished ar- tistry in these two great fields of drama. :Miss Yurka's recent appearance with Katherine Cornell, Brian Aherne and Maurice Evans ·In the \smash hit\ revival of \Romeo and Juliet\ testifies to tne gracious ver- Hatllity of this greut aetress. German newspu.Jler.) dining hall. Dt·. G<'orge Danton, Chakman of \Vilkinson and Ang·le At·e The Haverfor·d News tells how 1 the Fo1·eign Language Depaltrnent they reform student etiquette: ut Union College has succeeded in New Membei'S Named Bewildering publicity was getting Dr. Charles :H. Stubing of By Committee given to certain undergradu- lllinois State University as in- ates last week when the wait- struct&r in German. ers posted a special \blacklist.\ Dt·. Stubing received his Bache- Upon inquiry it was deter- lor's degree from Wesleyan Col- Borden Acting Secretary mined that tl\e waiters had or- l'ege at Middletown, Connecticut, ganized against certain student and his Master's degree from Co- tactics in the dining room. ·lumbia. He ·h:\s a~so studied in Dowling Reti1·es Aftet· Sue• At a meeting held in the Germany, earmng ·h1s Doctorate at cessful Season as waiter's dinina room several the Unive1·sity of Friebm·g .. He . is meals following the posting of ?f Get·man descent, and h1s w1fe Chairman the bulletin, reports were made IS German. that the notice had had some He will take his place here in good effects on those named. Sept~mber. . At a meeting of the Executive It was then s.uggested by sev- Umon College, of whJCh the Ia- Committee held in Silliman :Hall era! that the Hst be revised cal citizenry is justly proud, is si.t- last Thursday night, William W. weekly. Those desiring com- uated, as we know, not only m Mulvey jr. '38, was elected chair- plete information regarding the Schenectady, but several branches man .for the corning year, it was· \tactics\ mentioned are wei- are conducted in Albany, one of announced today by John B. D<>wl- come to attend these waiters' them being the College of Phar- ing who is the retiring chairnnan. meetings. macy, ln this division, instruction At the same time, two new mezn- ---------------- r r in the German language is being bers were elected to the com:rnit- significantly extended, thanks to te.e; they are Wilbur R. Wilkinson. the in'itiative of Dr. Ryan Fox, '39 of Schenectady, and Richard F. President of Union College, Profes- Angle '38 of Rochester. Albe1't G. sor Morton C. Stt>wart being named Borden '39, was named acting Sec- in prospect. retary to succeed Mulvey who held Union College! has recently re- the position last year. Other .m ern- ceived a gift of $10,000 from an bers of the executive committee alumnus, and from this $6()0 will 'are: Henry M. Stephenson '38, Buf- be used for the purchase of Ger- falo, Hugh H. Sharp '38, Valley Mrs .. Stone Depicts Maya. Civilization Club Plans to Hold Audubon Ex hi bit man books. Falls, E!ward L. Carroll, the Moun- ---a tebanks Director, and Milton i\!I. Staff Plans Work On Frosh Year book Will Get Under Way as Soon As Contracts Can Be Completed Enzer, Graduate Manager. Committee Selecta Plays The Executive Committee func- tions to select the plays and ])I'D-. duction staf-fs for Mounteba.nk.s · product ions. The members of this. year's committee who are graduat-· ing a1'e: S. Ralph Cohen, Frederick W. Fr·ost, Carlton Garrison and Ferdinand Helm jr, Miss Mir·iam Doyle and Mr. Bruce Adams, guest directors for the Mountebanks dur- ing this past season, were als<>· members of the Committee. · Woman Archaeologist Ac- cents Indiatt Struggle for Life in Ho11dui·an Jungle The struggle between man and the jungle in Central America was emphasized last evening by Mrs. Roger T. Stone in her talk on the Antiquities of Honduras. Mrs. Stone, who was introduced by Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox as the daughter-in-law of Union College, teaches archaeology at Tulane Uni- versity. She has just returned from an expedition to Central America where much work was done on the ruins in Honduras, To Be Held Friday at Hale House; Proceeds Given To Scll.Qlarship Fund From the dusty third floor of the Library of Union College, the Fac- ulay Woman's Club has unearthed a valuable a.nd original collection of Audubon's \Birds.\ These they will exhibit at an invitation sub- scription tea to be held at Hale House on Fri<lay, from 3 to 5 p. m., the proceeds to be used for the May 17.-Work on the recently inaugurated Freshman Yearbook will get under way as soon as .pre- liminary contracts with photogt·a- phers can be drawn up, it was an- nounced today by Edmond Arun- dell '38, the editor. Mulvey is a member of Delta Up- silon, is a Columnist for the Con- cordiensis, a member of the junio1·· board of the Idol, and has played in many Mountebank's producti<>ns. He is secretary of the Junhr Class. He succeeds John B. Dowling, star of \Winterset\ and \Squaring the Circle.\ Accompanying her talk were Club's scholarship fund. The book which is an innovation here will contain individual pic- tures of each member of the class ·of 1941 along with a brief para- graph describing his acco.mplish- ments in school together wtth such information as is available about his work in college. It is planned to publish the book as soon as possible next fall so that members of the freshman class may become acquainted with one another and with the college as quickly as pos- sible. Pictures of the various faculty members who will be closely asso- ciated with the freshman during their first semester and other fam- iliar campus faces will be included; il is this phase of the prospectus which Arundell plans to do now in (Continued. on Page 4) Borden is a member of Sigma Phi, plays varsity hockey and has been master Elec-trician of the Mountebanks for two years. Wilkinson is a neutral and was a candidate for varsity track team. He was a member of the Staff .for the Freshman Camp and has been Master Carpenter and Produc:tion Manager for the past year. Angel is affiliated with Sigma Phi. He played varsity football this past season and is also a member of the Union Co-llege Christian As- sociation. He has assisted on the stage crew for two years and was Master Ca!'Jlenter for the \Wind and the Rain\ production. Music, People, Rain and the Drama Make Weekend Enjoyable for Davis ¢---·--------- By JOHN C. DAVIS we ilui(l never been to Junior else whom the D. U.'s don't k.now p 1 ·om, ·s.o we went, and all we can anything about walked into the Phi· say is that we wish the Jurlim Class Gam dorm, which happened tc be had done as well on their yearbook full of H. P. W.'s \House Party as .they did on the aforementioned Women) at the time, and shouted .Pmm. Except for the time during in a very loud voice that breakfast wliich . Russ Morgan, etc., b1·oad- was ready; we understand that cer- m1sted, one could hear the music in tain peaceful sleeJlers took our a:Jmost evet·y part of the Gym, and friends remarks about sausages. and although the crescindi fooled us scrambled eggs seriously enoug-h to occasionally here and· thete, the get up and get dressed. band wasn't as bad as some of the Saturday night the Mountebanks pte-Prom pessimists seemed to did their littl.e piece, and while we think it was going to be. thought the play was a Jlretty bad We saw people at Prom, faculty one. we realize that the most was people we mean. DoctOI' Danton squeezed out of it by means of and MI~. Danton stood and sat re- stage business etc. We don't be lleve spectively in the faculty booth; in flattedng people, but George Dr. and Mt·s. Fox glided here and Hasltell, Joan Diamond, Tony there·-- we almost expected Mr. Sha1·pe and certain others managed Scho;r to appear out of the blue to carry the thing through three gauze. of the decorations in or<;~er acts to a conclusion and se'llet\al to be a boy again with the Unwn curtain cal)s. Among those present students at play. were Mr. Coburn and others i.nter- And then the rain! There was ested in the summer dramatic or- much bustling about during inter- ganization. mission, much carrying of dates to We went to the Kappa Alpha cars through three inches of water, House afterwards. We liked their and the interminable line of rest- dance. We thought it was the best less males waiting for their co~ts · dance on the campus. In fact:, we after the tumult and the shoutmg liked it so much that we didn '.t go died. to any other house on the campus. slides and moving pictures of life Union College's copy of the fa- in Central America and scenes I mous naturalist-artist's \Birds\ is taken from her latest expedition. one of the early sets of the artist's Mrs. Stone made her audience fam- publication and was purchased di- iliar with the general topography of rectly from Audubon during the the so called Latin American coun- tatters visit to Schenectady in 1884, tries. at which time Dr. Nott bought the As most of her work was done in \Birds\ and a set of the plates of Honduras, she explained how the \Quadr·upeds'• for $1,300. people, who are a mixture of differ- Volumes unusualiy Large ent races, first came to Honduras, how they live, and how they earn their living. It is believed that the natives of Honduras are descend- ents from the Aztecs, but in some of the temples have been found sta- tues which were bearded, a distinct Asiatic custom. Mrs. Stone de-scribed in detail a Mayan temple that was found in the back yard of one of the planta- tions. One of the chat·acteristics of this temple were the stone steps leading up to the prayer altar on which was inscribed some kind of a calendar. Besides the various Mayan ruins t11ere are also other ruins scattered about. Not much is !mown about them, and this is a rlch field for archaeologists. The big mystery of these temples is the fact that nobody knows just when they were built or why they were hidden. It is known from doc- uments of the Spanish Governor in 1582 that there were no traces of such temples at that time. It has been determined that because of the few articles to be found in these temples, that they were abandoned and hidden by their founders. The Deer Dance, one of the dances left over from their Aztec ancestors has been dressed up to fit the Christian customs and was fully described. Several scenes were shown de- scribing the Lacandon People. These are the li:rst Jlictures ever to be taken of these people and were taken under the greatest difficulty. Following the lecture a reception in honor of Mrs. Stone was held in Hale House. ---0•--- French Club Entertains John C. Davis '37, Chairman of the French Club announced that the club will entertain the Alliance ·Francaise of Schenectady tonight to be held in the Geology Lecture Room with a program of movies de- picting French life. Because of the unusually large size of the volumes, called the ele- phant folio edition, less than 100 sets of whic-h have been sold in the United States, they are seldom exhibited. The last time this set was shown was several years ago in Albany. The volumes were printed in this unusual size so that all the birds represented could be drawn to na- t ural size, thus requiring the larg\ est possible page for such birds as the wild turkey and the eagle. Drawn from life and in their na- tural habitat. Audubon had his work ingra.ved by the Robert Hav- ells, father and son. During this project the y<>unger Haven became the worlds greatest exponent of this art; Jl!Obably no finer work has been done either in ornithology or in printing, Mrs. Taylor Chairman Mrs. Wanen C. Taylor is chair- man of the committee arranging the exhibit. :Helmer Webb, Librar- ian of Union College will give three lectures dming the course of the afternoon and evening. The first will be at 3:30 p. m. and will be fol- lowed by talks at 4:30 and 7:30. Each faculty member may invite five friends and tea and coffee will be served in the dining room. Each guest will be aslted to contribute fifty cents to the scholarship fund. The Faculty ·Women's club was mganized by Mrs. Charles Alex- ander Richmond when Dr. Rich- mond was President of the college. For five years the club has spon- sored variou.s money making activ- ities which have included the Schoor Concert in '32, the Rosa Ten toni concert at the dedication of Hale House, various books sales, an antique silvet· subscription tea, all of which have netted $1,475 for scholat·ships at Union. Although guests of the club will be asked to contribute fifty cents to the fund, Union students are invited to at- tend the exl1lbit free of charge, Mrs. Taylor announced. PRICE FIVE CENTS Wallace Baker '39 Cltosen St. Andrews Exchange Sc hoI a r \Viii Be Third Representative Of College at Scotth-;h Institution Succeeds John Wold Sucr::ess of Plan Originated Tw e Years Ago Insures Continuance Monday, May 17.-- Wallace F. Baket of Rochester has been chosen fwm the class of '39 as the third exchange scholar ft·om Union College to St. And1·ews University, Scotland, President Dixon Ryan Fox announced today. He will suc- ceed John S. Wold '38 as Union's rept•esentative at the Scottish insti- tu tio :n. Ba.lter, a civil engineering stu- dent, will leave nex:t. fall to spend the year taking courses in the lib- eral .arts school at St. Andrews and will continue his engineering Pdu- c~tiD>n upon his return. Because St. Andrews does not offer e_nginereing courses Baker will not be accred- ited with his work abroad and will 1 ecei ve his engineering degree with the class of '40. Plitn Inaugurated by DI', Fox Th.e exchange of students be- tween Union and St. Andrews was inaugurated two years ago by President Fox and Sir James Irvine of St. Andrews. The exchange prov-ed so satisfactory that it was decided ·to continue the process of exchanging scholaJ•s from the two institutions for an ind«>finite time. Tllis year Brian S. T. Simpson of York, England, has studied at UniO>n as the representative of St. Andrews. The first Union student to be ac- cord-ed this honor was George P. Haskell and in exchange St. An- drews sent Clark Beckett of Card- enden, Scotland, here to do work in the field of Physics. Both fitted so well into the respective school life of the two institutions that the ex- periment was declared to be a great succ-ess. Haskell tool;: part in dram- atics and athletics abroad and was active in student government while Beckett was elected to the Hale Club, entered in to the fraternity life of the college, and spoke in chapoel and befo1·e different student groups many times. He received the degree of Eachelor of Science in Physics with the class of '36 UJlOn the completion of his work here. Wold Active at St. Andrews By agreement of both schools lhe same arrangements were continued and John Wold was selected to go to ~t. Andrews. Wold had a con- sistently good academic record and took Jlart In athletics, playing both hockey and tennis. He was a mem- ber <Of the student council and also of the Model League of Nations and of tile Alpha Delta Phi Fraternity. At St. Andrews he has introduced the students to collegiate cheering as it is done in America, organizing a group of American students into a clleering section to perform at athl·etic contests. Brian S. T. SimJlson is now doing· worll with the Physics deJlartment a..s did Beckett. He is a member of Kappa Alpha and was recently elec- ted to the Hale Club. The Scottish student to attend Unl<m next year has not as yet been announced. Flon of Harold Baker '11 B.aker is the son of Harold W. Bal~er '11 and the nephew of Wal- ter C. Baker '15. He has consistent- ly :maintained a high average in sch<Jlarship and earned his class numerals in both foobtall and !a- of this season's varsity football ct·osse last year. He was a member sqt~:ad and is now playlng attach on the lacrosse team. He is a member of the sophomore board of the stu- dent council and served as business manager of the renovated ldol. He is a member of Psi Upsilon. Screen audiences remember her particularly for her splendid Ma- dame Lafarge in \A Tale of Two Cities\ in which she received the crlti;cs' acclaim In spite of the fact that a host -of cinema stars were also featured. in -the grim picture . of the French Revolution. About Sahit•day noon, when we We didn't go to the Phi Gam dance had slept for an hour or so, the sun because we knew it would be decided to come out, and from then crowded, fo1· the Phi Gams ·have a on we liked Prom weekend. Very pernicious habit of letting everyone early Saturday morning, about and anyone come in. seven o'cloclt, a D. U. and someone <Continued on Page 4l Dr. Rowland Myers, sponsor of the group, will supplement the pic- tures with a br.ief commentary on the different scenes depicted. The picture itself will be a travelogue. The exhibit will be held in the Student Lounge and students al'e urged to take advantage of the worthwhile opportunity. is a member of Psi l,lpsilon. He wa.s elected Presldent of the Sopho- rnO>re Class in last Fall's elections, an<! i:s a member of the Student Co11ncil •

Page Two <llnnrn ~irnsis \tl <.'ausa Persa /'aro/e .·/ sst~i\ FOUN'!lW 1877 1<1'36 Member I'H7 Assodated CoUe6[ate Pr~ss Distributors of Colle6ide DitSest REPRESENTED FOR NATIUNAL. All\IEH.T'ISII'IG BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers RePresmtalloe 420 MADISON AVE, NEW YORK. N. y, CHICAGO .. BOSTON • SAN FRANCISCO LOS ANGEL.Efl • PORTLAND • SEATTL.S The official new~papet of the \tudent ul Untun College. Published 'l'ue:ouu;ys and l<'ri- tla~·s throughout the college year, ·except dur- ing Chrbtmas and Spring teces:;es. ---- ------·- ~-- Publication Office. The Gazette P1·ess. 334 State SL ~~.:_nectady, -~·- Y ., Tel~ phone 4-_4141 Entered at the Schenectady Po•t Office as Second Class Mail Maller Subscription price Five cents a c:opy; $3.00 a year; deliv_=r~d_::nyi,V_!:~l'e in_ the Unite_d_.States_ Eilltotial H.uoms, Sillimbn Hall, Union College Campus. Teie~t():ne, Schenectady, 4-0133. Senior Boal'd Hyman A. Enzct·,., ............. Edit\! in-<'hitof ll ~ ~- ~uul! 1 l_:l.Uvgl· tj ~t j;:~ Robert H. F\t·guson .......... !\Ianuging Euilot 1-';..1 \ ·p...-il••ll Uuu· ~> --1·'\; 111 Julius J. Bunugus..... . ~'''\' Edltu1 ~ :-;_ :-i. :-irlttl·lt l • .. lit gt· li !t, ~:'\ Henry D. Hat \man ............. l>'eut lil't' Editor :w l 'l!loll .\ \t\l!llt\ l·~··~tJ!• C1nl IL Trahman ................. Spot t:; Editor h.a!JP.t ;--i,gJu.t ll••ll:-.t I ..._;:::;, John 11. U·iln1our. . ......... Busi11es:.; D.1anag,Pr I ll•ll.L l (~o-.duli 1-lttll t ~ ·~·~:.! Alfreu R. Sdgle ......... Circulation 1\lanug~t J{:tPim :\-:u t-'i::~n Junior Board ASSOCIATI•: t;UITOHS Het·bett 0. I<' ox !-tube! t A. Saaf 1<'1 euerick W. Hequetnbuurg .let ome i:lmitlt H. Wyman Hitcheoek Edwm·d C. Retartyk David H. Millet' ltobert C. Wallet, Jt. Sophomore Board Assistant Editol'S C. Hussell De~·o, Cht·i~tupher M. Faliy, Hupet·t L. Gilmore, William G. Uot mle)', Alhert H. Haiavin, Ric hat u S. Harrb;un, lleu• ge L. l'el'k, Lawrence V. Pellettiet. JI., Tttuuws II. Hal- stun, Town:.!eml J. Rifenbaty, Juhll J. ~!t·idl~ M. Gale Hoffman. Issue Editors Robert Saaf Robert Walter A~..,il-;tants David ;\Iiller Gale !Iol'fmnn ·Ceorge Peck Tuesday, May 18, 1937 SCOTCH, SCOTTISH, GERMAN Union College will have three students on its campus next year who will have interna- tional collegiate experience. John S. Wold will be back from his year of study at St. And1·ews University, Scotland, Hans Munzer of Frankfort-un-the-;\laine, will be studying and working here in the modern languages department, and a Scottish student, yet un- named will be taking the place of B1·ian S. T. Simpson as exchange sch olu.r from St. An- drew8. At St. Andrews will be Wallace Baker and l\lr. Simp::;on of' Union College. The ex- l'hang·e will indeed be complete. The ::;ystem of exchangeH as undertaken by the two institution:-; on opposite sides of the uc.ean has proved mo::;t worthwhile. The stuclents who have been honored by IJeing g·iven n yl'al·'~ :;chobr~hip to study in an entirely new atmosplwre have l'H.ioyecl nnrl educated themselves. The IJenefit to Cnion Ct)\lege as :1 whole has not been aH intangible :~s mig-ht lw im- agined, for Clad< Beckett, \Juh n\ Simpson, (;eorg·e l!nskell, and ,J uh n Wold have added an itllJ)lJI'tani link in Union'::; educational ::;ystem. They have connected Union College with one of the olcle~t and most respected in~iitutions in Eu!'ope. It is a connection that should leatl to oihe1· intet·uational ex- changes. To Wally llaker who will mnke the trip to Scotland this summe1· and who will take one yem· from his engineering studies to revel in purely academic pursuit~-> we extend our con- g·ratulatiun::;-envious oneH o[ course, but en- tirely ::;i ncere. GARBO ;JOIN~ UNION The very plebian phras.e \collective bar- gaining\ became endowed with luscious, grandiose implicationg rluri ng the past week THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MAY 18, 1937 when the movie actors union, or Screen Act-~ Ol'S Gui;ld, e:dmost unanimously voted to call : .. · J u s r I N j E' s T a strikl' ag·ainst any producer who failed to · . · '· ·, ·: • · Water, water, ever:,twher.e, and , not a drop to dr.ink. That's the acliH.:l'e to a. lnn·g,cining· agreement. '================;:================;it: stm·y of Ptom night ... at least in Idle Dri~el Alth!Jug·h there is little 1·ea.son to believe ·our case. 'On the eve of the Prom, Along with about five hundted I, alone ttl.e gteat Ascetic, everything h.ad seemed hunlty- that employers in the movie industry wil'l other people at Unicm and a couple I, the •ever--calm aesthetic, · dory. E. s. c. Smith, .predicted clear . f . I f l h t of .billion in the world at ·latge we . I, the ·cath.olic emetic, .·skies, excellent pessibi'lities ·o.f sun- l'Cillctlll e:m:y mol'e mt l U to t e compac stayed away from Prom. But there Lanky, plolt, and slightly •bony, ·shine, and a \somewi:1at warmer\ which W<:lS signetl than have other employers were enough left to make a respect- Once drank beer with Jack and· temperature. Anyway we got wet able showing, 1·endezed still more Tony. · feet that night, and a melodious in other in.dustr.ies, the results of the strike t•espectable, no doubt, by our par- CHOR1JS: Yet there ·uves no man, cough the nex:t morning. threatead by such personages as Jean Muir, ticular B!bsence. We hope everybody etc.. . . At any rate we give orchids to had a good time. Now in alcoholic search the Prom C()mmittee. We thought Eobel'i i\l<:m tg;omel·y, Franchot Tone, and We h!we been insuHed this week, I never •leave my lovely perch. the band was differeiLt ... the i•'rederie :Vlarch has given a new glamor t 0 not very painfully, howevet·, as you But mouPn alone to thinko:f bats ·music was a sort of dignified will see. The Learned Davis, Dan- I knew, and mourn the lupa-nars swing, 'dancy, and good. Everything tilL' dt:>nunlds Hf workers in aU industries. \on~s gift to Romantic Philology, I knew tcr be in nearby Scotia : was great except for the rain ... The ~ it-dt) wn stril\es of }'lint, Mich., never Zabuesnick~s gift to the Ftench Rousing scholarly emotia. and a Delta ·Chi who tumbled down Academy, Myets' gift to a revival To all who pass I growl \In Deo,\ :the gy.m steps, rolled over on hi:; ~rained as 1HUCh popular ~ympathy as did the of interest in the minor wotks of an And now to you I say, \Ex:eo·:. head, onto his ·back, until he f·lna:lly · ' t G G b d J '-I anonymous poet of the early six- ·CHORUS: Yet there Jlves, etc ... regained his feet. retJllltett ~ <ll'H. 1·eta m; o an ean 1 ar- I ld t 11 p f s 'th th teen th century l author of three lost · nc en a · Y ro essor m1 · , ·' E' luw juinecl the closed shop with several hun- sonnets and an unfinished tl•ioletl, J. c. DAVlS wind is in the southeast, the clouds dales unknown, and Silbet's gift to Why .we should answer ,this we look slig.hily wispy, .and· the sun dred ulhet· nuluhles. It was an easy conquest the future of the Dolce sm Nuovo don't know. But, on the otlter hand, seems to be shining through col- I Ul' the HlUV ie m:ton; and it made a hit with haa contributed the following little we don't 'lmow why we shc:mltln't. ot•ed glasses, What kind of weather number to our .program. will there be tomorrow? · the pub lie. To DEL-vis, Among the lYJociN·n Fair or unfair? \· 1 1 I 'l I I To Helm, On His Perch ou the RoDf' Languages • ·• * . 'evert 1e es::;, l1e ::;ti·u:e among- t 1e tee 1- of Silliman Hall This caught us in the eye while nical wurker·s still goes on. The paradox as- Looking. awund with glassy orb we were sitting at the typewriter Looking around with beady eye (Stethen, starb, ist gestot:ben), being try.ing to pound out this column. :->Ulllc':-> iHllllense propol'tions when viewed I scan the academic sky. of:t'he better sort It wa:; on the Concot•dy bulletin from lhe reallaboret·s side. Ilet·e are several I sniff a bit down a petulant nose lmourir, mourrai, et je suis mort>, boatd which serves to enlighten When Mrs. Fox lifts the bug ft·om I cross my eyes complacently, gr·een reporters. thum:>and men und women in the technical the tose, For I bebave most decently HERE IS AN EXAMPLE OF A And cross my legs complacently -F'or whll e I'm ruue to my inferiors POOR FEATURE STORY: deparlmenl::; of the motion picture industry To see spting come renascently I'm vet:y nice to my superiors. HAl\li·LTON, N, Y.-(ACF·l- striving for recognition fm· the right to etH'll With Mr. Calvin and the drama CHOR·lJS: Lucky tbe II'Lan or girl When they saw two skunks Stt·oJoling around the panorama. strolling through their .Jiving room a little U€lter· than a living wage. And the whose gt ave is neal' to that of members of the Sigma Chi frater- Chorus the proper Davis. 't c 1 worker~ \.\\lose r·ig-ht to lnwg·ain is almost un- mY at 0 gate University sprinted Yet thet·e lives no man who'll over- I know in my teflective hou:l' for open spaces. questiomLble, because of thei1• important whelm That 1 am learning, tas-te, and <And ·here's the comment that an t.l· · · • · • · \ H t · ho 1 , all-knowing editor wrote directly puu IC positiOn are 'gtven recogmt10n. ypoct'a ertmorp us Hem, power. •beneath the story.) It lllJQ' be tme that the high salaried stars And I, like good St. Simeon Stylite, For many a freshman h.as bad WHEN A DOG BITES A MAN Gaze eviUy down through the Hale dreams THAT'S ORDINARY BUT WHEN are a::;si sting' lhe pt·oletat'iat financially House skylight, When 1 have marked his -English· A MAN BITES A boo THAT'S themes, NEWS. ·F'EA TURES SHOULD durin!!: the .[n•esent strike. It ma\ also be And see Mrs. Cease inspect the ham, And. :many a student's disrespect ·· \ · CONTAIN SOMETHING OUT OF il'Ue lhat the mag-nanimity of the people on Improve the salad, taste the jam. For rne and learning I correct. THE ORDINARY. WHAT WOULD And 1 Jnay add the faculty YOU DO IF A SKUNK CAME lop hlt:i definite publicity value. It may also· Are e.lw.ays very pleasedV'iith me. INTO THE ROOM. YOU'D lw tme t11at the successful efforts of the I I For r sl<m't gossip with.the :students SPRINT TOO. NO NEWS. BUT CINEMA About tlte faculty. Imprudence! . IF THE SKUNK SPRINTED. IT Sc!'een Actm·' s GuHd on h.ehalf of their own I always ten the faculty WOULD MA.KE A. FEATURE B JOHN B DOWLING : How mean the students are to me. STORY. wllecl ive bargaining may bring about a con- Y • And I lcnow they will sympathize F lf the skunk sprinted, we think CDlllitant recognition fm· the technical staf·fs. or I am meelt and mild. My eyes it would be about time for us to Beam thanits the while my learn- b · Yet there is undoubtedl.v a definite SY!n· A Star Is BOI'n tSelznick Inter- ing's fires elteve all this stuff about B. 0. national; Director, William Well- and Halitosis. pathy in a small portion of the actors' guild man; Proctors) represents in some Are stoked by Zabby and D:r·, Myers. * • • They tell me that I will succeed We saw this on the \Wind and for th € labol' troubles of the less privileged. ways the most unimpassioned auto- Fm I c.an write and I ca.n read. the Rain\ program. biography of Hollywood that the I h t tf 1 h 'fl f h t 1 • ave .amos respec u ' eart Proopertles; Mrs. Dixon Ryan 1e act t a sa ary mcreases wer.e granted fabulous city of the West has ever And what is more, I'm fon.d· of art. delivered of itself upon the screen. CH Fox, Mrs, Delancey Davis, Mrs. R. lo peuple who don't need hig-her salaries, This becomes notable when one ORUS: Luck the man or girl G, Day, Mr. s. Ralph Cohen, Miss whose grave is near to that of Margaret Clowe, Miss Miriam does not mean that the people who do need looks back over the previous ef· \11-E proper Davis. J h M C F F G . forts in that direction which have o nson, rs. · . . arts, the n LJ re 111011e~· 'll~e !!01. UQ' to 1 ·e 1' Q'llOl'ed. b · · f 1 d t · a Sigma Phi Society, The Schenec- ~ _ _ u _ een gtven m er or pro uc 1on as And I ntay add that I aJD s-een With the <tssistance of actor.s who can rule and which were laden with In lcindly light by J. s. Greene. ~~'Z ~~;~ic~la~~~a~~cth~h~~i~~ that sentimentality with which the And Dr. Danton sits up late bmve public Peaction to what may be called show world of both Broadway and To listen to me conJ'ugate. Colleg·e Library, New York Tele- H 11 d · t d •t phone Company, The Biology de- \ d\ t' 't' th 1 t . t . o ·ywoo IS prone o regar J -.And Zabby says it's J'ust -divine l'e aC I VI leS e j)l'O e al'lU can Wlll rec- l partmen t, the Chemistry depart· se f. To hea.t the nouns that I decline. t og-nition and with it an improved economic Not that A Star Is Born avoids In fact I feel I must confess m~o ·comment necessary! existence. that sentimentality, for instead of That I am slated for success • • ,. being a calm reportorial document And n<l one can preven-t my rise. We're shocked. In the past week, Th€ only t1·ouble is that the workers may of the rise of one star and the de- I am S<J vety, very nice. among other things, the Garnet have to fiQht the fi!rht l.y thelnselves. Wl'tl1- cline of another it strac!.dles the is- F. H. (Continued on Page 4) - ~ 1J sue presenting a factually accurate --------'--------------_.:..::_::.:::__.:_::_::..::~--- out ,;uch names as Clark Gable, Jean Harlow, account with sentimental over- tones. No effort is made to disguise \\'i!Lum Powell, Joe E. Brown to back them the downward path disillusionment in the battle, the cause for 1 ·eal labor in the the very real hardships of a girl trying to br·eak into the movies, l11Dtioll pictm·e industt·y may be .extremely of a male star nor the rapacity of difficult to ~ttain. Whethel· the actOl'S wl'll the public. But in fairness one • must admit that A Stru· Is Born really do something to aid their le.ss fortun- has rather a bit more of g.lamor to · it than tmth. The facts are gilded ale co-\.vorkel's in the labor struggle will be by heroics. VCJ)' intel'esting to watch. We've always The story is old and brief .3 rl ] tl · fl f <though the pictures is not so Wllllitt'l'e w 1e lel' mov1e actors were u fs. brief>. A farm gi!'l, Esthet· Blod- IN APPRECIATION M()st of the guests who went to the Jun- ior l'l'cnn Ft:iday night enjoyed themselves and their partne1·s, the band, and the set- ting-. despite the heavy rain that fell out- Hide. ;\!any Df them conside!'ed the affail' the mos1 EOntertaining- they had ever attended. I•'inanciallr and artistically successful, the 19J~ }Jl'omenade marks one of the lligh points in student social life. Marred by none of the mishaps which usually attend stu- dent-nm functions, Friday nig·ht's prom was nwr-p than a credit to Union College. T'he student members of the prom com- mittee, Chait·man Hamld B. Ackennan, l''m nc i~ Agostini, Edw<:nd J. Barry, Winter- ton l'- Day, Ceol'g-e Doyle, Hyman A. Enzer. Fredel'ick Hawley, William Hook, and Elme1 J oh JHHlll., de::;e1·ve the highest p1·aise fo1· theit e1'fmts to make the affair a success. There wet•e many behind-the-scenes wOJ''k- ers \Vho contributed much to the prom to make it \the best,\ but of all, probably the ma:r1 wl1o did the most-besides Ackerman- was Dr. William W. Bennett. As student co- ordinator he excelled in the performance of his duties. He never missed an opportunity to offe1· his moi'e experienced services. It is to hin1 as well as to the members of the stu- dellL ·committee and all thos.e who assisted them that this editm·ial is written in ap- Pl~eciation. gett <Janet Gaynor) leaves her home on a farm with the help of her grandmother (May Robson) to ma.ke a career for herself in pic- tures. One of a hord·e of extt·as she cannot even get on file with Ce.nt1 al Casting, finds no jobs un- til a friend enables her to• be• a maid at a 'producer's .party. Nor- man Maine lFtederic March) a diplomatic star already on the downward path, attracted by het· unspoiled freshness, befriends her, gets her a screen test. Esther Blodgett, now Vicki Les- tet·, plays her first pictm·e with Norman Maine and ·in due course they fall in love and mall y before they realize that while she is a suc- cess he has sung his swan song. As his decadence bec(}mes plain to him, Maine begins dl'inking again and the rest of the picture is more an exploration of his sinldng than of Vicki Lester's rising. Like most autobiographers Holly- wood finds it hurd not to be self- conscious. Sig·1ificurtly, the pro- ducer C Adolphe Henjou) is drawn very quietly, I sn~,Ject in deference to the powers. The publicity boys must have been irked by Lionel Stander's portt ayal of them in the earlier parts of the film. But it is the self-conscious attl· tude that hm·ts the picture while It gives it its stl'ength. The senti- men and the serious as blend€d by A Star Is Born ma.l'e it good en- tertainment. But the nrcssage so firmly planted at both beginning and end of the film, is tirese>me. May Robson carries it and over- acts as usual. The film would have been shorter and better without it. As to performances, Janet Gay- nor is more acceptable but no bet- ter than in the past. Frederic March, who has not been too good of late, has a part that fits him perfectly, and he plays it to give Norman Maine the ex:act air of im- probability and attitudinizing that the part required. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. OC>R. WALL & liBERTY STS. DEPOT OFFICE: N. '(, C. STATION 'PHONE 4-5612' 'PHON.E 4-8512 XPRESS NATION.WID£ RAIL·AIR SERVICE l D 0 B Ha A ' Ui '[ mo its rna the Y. ~an ine: sha a t P. in ' L on wit Hru pit< gan firs losi to linE ich My anc sho Wll T BuJ WeE Alb Fl'i Inc nisi por the 'I sta: it I wil: \hi'· ma yea anc ing c tur the fer, sue the mo Jon bui SCI', m·a chi, anc son bin I· pee It ha' fiv• by see we. Brt we1 wa: as he pla sqt En the l' of Lir col fot clu lan mo co· I., ott· FJ In Sq1 sin lht Ml Th Me I poe In liu plf fot in tw to fr< Le lin mE Sa Nc go

he In m, to led ·hl<l thE' col- her hile mn. etin nted t an EN ULD BUT IT URE to 0. and Ryan R. Miss the Stu- Tele- de- epart- week, 4-5612 4-8512 •; THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MAY 18, 1937 Page Three Varsity Ball Team Faces Hamilton At Clinton Tomorrow ------ . $------------------------------- Dutchmen Favored 0 v e r Continentals By Slight Margin Hamilton Second Consecutin Away Game for Nelsonmen; Look for Third Win W a:ters. to Toe Rubber Uilfing·er Opp()nents' :Choice To Seek First Victory :In Four Games 'rhe Union varsity nine will have more than an even chance .to gain its third victory of the season to- morrow afternoon when it faces the Hamnton te&rn at Clinton, N. Y. The Continentals, showing the same wea.knesses as the ·Garnet, ineffectiveness at the plate and shakiness in field work, have had u bad season so far, losing to R. P. I., Swarthmme, and :Rochester in order. Lloyd Waters will probably start on the mound for Union tomorrow with Elmer Johnson and George Haskell ready if needed as relief pitchex:s. Waters has pitched two games this season, winning his first against Johns Hopkins and losing a tough one last Wednesday to Williams 3 to 2. The Union lineup will be completed by Yun- ich in the receiving end, Brown, Myers, and Marra .on first, second and third respectively; Miller at short, and Amazon, • Thomas and Wiley out in the grass. Team Lacks Practice The Garnet team will meet the Buff and Blue tomot·x·ow after a week's layoff. The game with the Albany Senators, scheduled for last Friday, and postponed because of inclement weathet·, would have fur- nished the Unio.n nine another op- portunity to smooth out some of the rough spots in its technique. The Clinton nine was slow in starting this season but at the rate it has improved in its last games will give a good battle. Hamilton's threats at the plate from perfor- mances in previous games this year appear to be Sullivan, Wilcox and Hi'lfinger, who handles pitch- ing and first sack assignments. * Coach Duke Nelson, while na- turally somewhat disappointed at the bad brealts his team has suf- .fered, nevertheless is hopeful of success in the coming games. With the majority of the nine sopho- mores-there are six of them when Jones is pitching-he has had to build up the team practically from scratch. Since the first game, sev- eral changes have been made, chiefly in the catching department and at shortstop, until now Nel- son fee.ls he has a winning com- bination. * * Incidentally, Nelson is a bit peeved with our Williams friends. It seems that his baseball' teams have lost to the Purple nine for five straight years-and every time by a one-run margin! Victory seemed possible for Union last weelt in the ninth inning when Brownie got a life by an error, went to second on a wild throw, was sacrificed to thirtl But just as Nelson hopes were highest and he gave the signal for a squeeze play, the strategy failed, the squeeze bunt was a pop-up and Ernie was doubled off third to end the contest. * • * Next year's ball schedule is one of the best arranged In some time. Limited to fourteen games ·by a college 1 uie, the tea.m will play fourteen hat d ones and even In· elude a two-day trip to New Eng- land. meeting Middlebury and Ver- mont o.n successive days. Rutgers, Colgate, Syracuse, Hamilton, R. P. I., and Rochester are among the other opoonents. -----o---- Bulletin Negotiations a1•e now heing •carried on by the Union College Outing- Club with the manag-e· ment of the Albany Senat<>rs Baseball Club for a twilight game between Union College and the Albany SenatOI'S on Alexander Field, May 27. lf ar· rangements are completed the Senators will journey to. the campus after the Albany-El- mira game in .the a.ftemoon at Hawkins Stadium in M:enaads. The Senators were scb.eduled to play Union last Fl'iday after· noon but the game wa.s cancel· led because of the rain, Middlebury and Vt.: Ten» is Opponents Team to Conclude Disastrous Season With Road Trip; Foes Strong Union's most travel-conscious team, .the tennis squad, will move' up into the North country this week-end, as it engages Middle- bury and Vermont in the final. matches of the season . Having already partaken in one two-game trip, the team will leave on Thursday for its week-end if, the fickle weather does ll<>t cancel· one or both of the contests. The Hamilton match, scheduled for last Fl'iday, went out with the Al- bany baseball game as a steady downpour flooded the couts. Chances Slim The lineup for the final series will be the road tt·ip team which hasn't ·been too successful. How- ever, with the Syracuse victory to' boast of, the sqnad cannot be rated' too low and a good chance of turn- ing in creditable performances can be expected. Bernie Salad, although scholastically abla-.as Murphy and Carr are not-will not make the trip, because of outside work, so the team will be made up of Haw- ley, Dwore, Orton, Rathbun, Kess- ler and Stewart. Middlebury, reputedly strong, nevertheless has lost to Vermont, 6-3, so if Union wins the first match, it has a good chance of dropping the second. Vermont's courtmen are about equal in all six positions, and besides the Middle- bury conquest, have a St. Law- rence win to their ·credit. ---,0---- Wold Cheerleadel' John S. Wold '38 of Schenectady was appointed head cheerleader for the year 1937-1938, it was an- '1ounced yesterday by the Athletic Depar·tment. Wold is at present the Union exchange student to St. An- dt ews Univet sity, Scotland. Wold's assistants will be Philip Duchscherer '39 of Kenrno.re, Rob- ert Hinkle '39 of Schenectady, David B. Miller '39 of Elmira, and Douglas Mm·phy '39 of Passaic, N.J. Varsity Stickmen Easily Down Tufts Will Play Williams Away Saturday Smith and Vandecar Lead Victory Parade for 17 to 2 Over Bostonians; Garnet Favored to Beat Purple Ten in Contest at Williamstown Win I SPORTS CALE].\l'DAR TOJTIOl'I'OW Varsity BasebaU, Union vs. Ham- ilton, Clinton, N. Y. Varsity Golf, Union vs. Hamil· ton, Mohawk Golf Coul'se. Thursday F'r~.shman Lacrosse, R. P. I., Troy. Friday Union VH. Track Team Will MeetHaverford Travels to Pennsylvania foi' Away Tussle; Foes Strong In Field Events <$>------------ Varsity Tennis, Union vs. Mid· Union's lacrosse team,. oncet mt~re apparently the wisest of all con- die bury, Middlebury, Vt. Things look black for the varsity assuming the high-scormg ac ICS cei·ned was the referee who donned track mt>n who meet another untie- of its ,earlier contests, ran away feated team this Saturday at Hav- from Tufts Saturday afternoon in a gaudy and smart-loolting ruin pl'ford. Pa. a one-sided affair, 17 to 2. With ·coat in which to perform his dut- ~ While Union has defeated Ro- reserves playing most Of the game, ies. The Tufts summary: I INTRAMURALS chester, Vermont and Hamilton by it was a walk-away for the Dutch- Union Tuft,; . over·whelrning scores, Haverford G Burd Despotopulos I men who, in their last home con- p Liffiton Peters 1.:0.=============~ has come tlnough with wins ov~r· test, put on a show in the rain CP Potts Gr·aham Swarthmore, Lafayette, and Johns for the few Prom guests who Tennis and Horseshoes Hopkins. The Scarlet and Black ner·ved the steady downpour to see 1 D V. Smith Kemp 1 on trounced Lafayette 93-33, Johns the fa;vorites win. Union's next 2D Reynolds Radshaw The thit·d round of the Spring Hopkins 109-17, and eked out a I 't t'lt . 11 b 1 d C Fraser Conforti Tennis and Horseshoe Tour·naments 65 2 _ 3 to 60 1 _ 3 wi'n O·Vel· Swarth- and fina varst Y 1 WI e P aye 2A Vandecar Harris t b I t d \' f at Williams on Friday, and then a mus e comp e e on or ... e ore more. two week rest will be taken until· 1A J. Smith Goodwin May 20th. Do not forfeit or yom A th . d' t' f th t h · d 1H Paul Van Ummersen group will lose many points. no er 111 tea ·wn ° e ough the Alumni game which wm s up OH Blue Sullivan sledding in view fot· the Dutc - the season in June. * • • men are the marks set up by the Jack Smith and Hal Vandecar Spares-Union: Barford·, Cole- Haverford cindet· pounders. W.in- led the parade Saturday, tossing in man, Potts, Kennedy, Fenton, Track Meet gerd, fleet-footed sprinter, does the> · I · 'th careless aban Baker, Thompson, MacMurray 100-uard dash 1'n ton seconds flat SIX goa s apiece WI - Tufts: O'Brien, Ringer, LeRoge.r, The J·esults of the Spring Tmck J ~ don and making the visitors' goalie 1 k . 1 C Meet may be found in your re.spec- compared to Glenn's best mark of feel rather ashamed of himself. Mi ler, Borina es, Ham! ton, ros- 10:6. Captain Sherman Hirst has by, Smith. Scoring-J. Smith 6, tive intl'amural boxes. Joe Paul garnered two counters Vandeca.r G, Paul 2 , MacMurray, run the 220 yard dash Ln :22.6, but while Ken MacMurry, Vince * • * Marian, O>f Haverford hung up the Smith and Dick Kennedy slipped Kennedy, V. Smith, for Union; Sui- Baseball Meet time of :22.4 in the meet against in one apiece. Sullivan and Rer- !ivan, Redshaw for Tufts. Swarthmore. Holzer, Haverford shaw were the only opponents to -----o·---- The Baseball Field Meet will be weight man, tosses the shotput 44 pierce the home defense to score. Golfers Contest Hamilton held on Wednesday, May 26th be- feet and 11 inches compared. to Attack Works Well In Match Here Tomorrov~· ginning promptly at 1:00 p. m. The Frank Gatchell's little better than The Union attack worked rules for the meet are in your re- 38 feet. Holzer hurls the discus for Smoothly and rang Up its first spective intramural boxes. En tries a little less than 120 feet, while The Union College golf team will must be in the Intramur·al box. not John K1·eust' does 116 feet plus g oals within a few minutes Ellfter 1 h t h H 'I C II • h h Pay ost o t e amt ton ° ege later than Saturday, May 22. Each Derr, broad jumper has clear·ed the opening whistle. After t at t e !in·lrsmen tomorrow when it plays group must enter at least six men the board for nearly 22 feet, while team slowed up and was content the Continentals in a return match · h 30 to play with reserves during most on the Mohawk Golf Course. Ham- to gam t e entrance points. Hirst's jumps have averaged of the game, although every so ilton won its ear·lier match with the ------o---- around 21 feet. Often a Whl .te fla.g would appeat· G 1 d Cl' \ ~ From these figures it· seems arnet, p aye at mton, u to\· INTRAMURAL TOTALS 't b · h t th G ' 'll Out Of t he rain to signalize another Th f U . h h d h . . qut e o VIous t a· e arne, WI us ar mon as a rat er have to be on its toes to overcome tally. The game was the fourth a poor season winning one match, these five Scarlet and Black traclr- win of the season against one tie tying one, and dropping tht·ee. p · u 'J 935 812 men. If Union can annex the re- and one defeat. Hamilton has been undefeated this SJ pst on · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Williams will be the underdogs . . II f' f 'ts Delta Upsilon .............. 795.[)88 maining six fi!'st places and. wiggle S d f year wmnmg a tve o I in to the second and third places, in the final game on atur ay, or, matches to date. Besides Union, Phi Delta Theta . . . . . . . . . . . 794.821 the chances for the twelfth consec- although the Purple team has won it has beeten the Cornell J, V.'s, Phi Sigma Delta ........... 779.575 t' · t 'II b b · ht d three of its four games, the com- Syracuse, Rochester and Colgate, u Ive VIC ory Wl e rig enc • parative scores show Union to be which has trounced the Garnet Lambda Chi Alpha · · ....... 726.982 0•------ much the stronger. Coach Whoop squad 3 to 1. Delta Phi .................. 714.468 Snively's stickmen have defeated Frankly the Dutchmen golfer's Tufts, 7-4, M. I. T. 8-3, Lafayette chances tomorrow against the Buff 14-4, and have lost to New Hamp- and Blue are decidely slim. In its shire 4-3. Outstanding for the Wil- match with the Maroon last week, liamstown boys are AI Lifferts and the Hamilton team played superior Meyersberg, attack men, and Seay golf, edging out Colgate by a 5 to 4 and Duncan, defense men. Wil- score. Captain Jack Sabin, number Iiams, which has taken the meas- one man on the Hamilton squad ure of the Garnet in every athle- downed Colgate's ace, Faye, one of tic contest played this year, is the outstanding golfers in the East- rated as a slow-starting team ern collegiate circut, 4 and 3. The which has done most of its scar- Continentals' two man, Tommy ing in the late periods. However, Kelley, won handily over Van Ben- with Union pointing to one of its schoten, 4 and 2. Strictly on the most successful years, williams basis of statistics Union is due to should fall victim in this last con- take it on the chin tomorrow. test. The Garnet team wil probobly • • • consist of Captain Monty Froelich Smith, Vandecar and Paul are in number one position, followed running a close race for high- by Doug Geer, Ken Brown, Johnny scoring honors this year. Jack has Maxwell, Vandet•bilt, and Field. tossE-d in about twenty-five talliPs, while Vandecar and Paul range Kappa Nu . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 712.857 Beta Theta Pi . . . . . . . . . . . . . 712.651 Phi Gamma Delta . . . . . . . . . 705.594 Chi Psi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65R599 Kappa Alpha . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 644.277 Alpha Phi Delta ........... 521.196 Kappa Sigma .............. 474.500 Neutrals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 415,990 Alpha Delta Phi . . . . . . . . . . . 412.315 Sigma Phi . .. . .. . . . . .. . . .. . 380.628 South College . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 327.239 Theta Delta Chi ........... 298.047 Phi Sigma Kappa . . . . . . . . . . 227.529 Theta Nu Epsilon . . . . . . . . . . 173.289 Sigma Chi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 133.836 Delta Chi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84.038 North College ............. . 51.1343 Freshmen Stickmen Play R. P. I. at Troy Thursday The Union freshman lacrosse team, its ranks swelled by Coach Fred Wyatt, and Hal Vandecar and Joe Paul of the varsity ten, downed a team from R. P. I., 12 to 8, on Library Field Saturday. The Fresh- men will travel to Troy Thursday for a return match with the R. P. I. team. On Saturday they will play the Manlius School ten here. Rensselaer's team is composed of members of all classes and was formed this year by interested stu- dents. Since the game Saturday was unofficial and R. P. I.'s team not strictly freshman, Coach Wy- att, Vandecar and Paul were able to play. somewhat below him. At this rate, Captain Jack should be a sure-fire bet fm• another All-American posi- tion this year. * • • Saturday's game was a happy one for all but the spectator·s. Everyone was drenched except· those who watched from cars, and G-E Campus News .--------------·~-------------------------------. j IN THE SHOWERS f : byCARLTRAHMAN I I t ··------------------------------------------------· Jack Smith, Union's star lacrosse player, who was chosen All- America. last year and last summer played with the Intercollegiate Lacrosse AU-American team in Canada, has been invited by the La- crosse Association to accompany the All-American team this summer on its six weeks trip to England, where it will play in the Intercolleg- iate Series. Jack is eager to go but he lacks the necessary funds. The Student Council, at a special meeting last Friday, voted unanimously to appropriate from surplus Student Tax funds the $300 he requires. The administration said no. It looks now as though the only way Jack can make his trip--a trip we think would be of gt·eat benefit to the college as well as to him-will be through a student and alumni sub- scription campaign. In .the past there have been drives for portrait · funds; a campaign to send a traveling salesman would serve as a worthy purpose. * • \EXPERIMENTALLY-NOT ON PAPER\ SIXTEEN y<'ars or An ngo;n, Dr. WilliR R. FOR OUTSTANIHNG ACHIEVEMENT FEBRUARY 26 was a big day in the lives of thirty-thr<>e (;.E Pmploy<•Ps. These thirty· three WPrl' Al'kcted from th<' 60,000 p!\rsons in the Company~, employ tu receive tlu- Cbarl~s A. Cnflin Awards. Th«>rl' were fift,•.-n fn<'tnry nten\ twelvr t•nginccrs, twu comn•~rl'ial mt'\n~ and four administrativP and rlt>rieai <>mploypes. Twrlvl' of the l!;rnup ar<' rolll'!!:<' l(rad1111 t<'R: Frosh Vie With Manlius we heard a funny one the other day. Phil Stanley, Union golf In Second Golf Enc()unter . co>Uch, had to pick siK men to play against the Williams team. He chose the first fom but couldn't decide which two he should use of the four remaining men on the squad. So he had three of the fom (he didn't bother to call the other man in ·from the links) toss coins for the positions. '!'he two winners played in the match. Whitney. nnw ViC'I' l'r<'Aidl'lll in charge of G~neral ~1..-C\tri~ rf'~f\nrf'h~ ~f'n I a not ... to ll rf'~Parr-h wnrkt•r. Riuggt\Rtin~ PX]u•rhn~n tR wi t:h a rnolnr•f!PTH\l'ator ~t>l !iwult>d p;aRt.ight. untl filled wilh hydrn~en to~ .. ,. if tlw lllttchinP ran coolt>r, and more efH<'il'ntiy. The re•nlts of thus•• ex1>erimt>n ts promoted the u!le of hydro~\\ in syndtronous <'nn<l<'m'<<'rs an•l <'At:ablish••d rho pr<'Rf'llt trt>n<l tnwm·d ihP nRe of hydrogPil in t urhinc-gen••ratnrs. Windage loss in a rotating machine is reduce<! about 90 per cent and noiRe is greatly decrea~t'd bt•canse of the low density of hytlrogen. Ileal is carried away much more t•api•ily through I Ill' high~r thermal cnmlu<'tivi ty nf hydrn~t'll. ReFlistance to damage due t~ eorona within the machine is incr!'ased. 'fhes~ charactl'risties increase the l'l«>C'Iriea I ontp11 t for a given rore size and redu<'<> inspPction and muintrnan<'P expense. HoyT. Atl()iphson. Lnivrn<ity of \l(;'ashing- tnn, \34; Eugen<' \'\. Hoeltn••, TexaR A & 1\:1, '26 and M. LT., '2H; Clnmie P. Hamilton, Univ«>rsity of \evada, '14: Gwrg<> H. Jump, Syracust' ll .. \10; Ja<'k R. M .. ador, Texu• A <'\ M, '27 and '2/l; II arry E. Scar- hrough, (;l'orgia 'j'.,.,h., '19; Edward J. :-;rh~~t•fpt•. J nhns llopk.ino, '23; A lfrf'd· A. Thnmpm.n, University of Caliroroia, \05; ( :ari 'l'lmmin, ( :ollege of City of 1\ew \ nrk., '17, M. I. T., '20; Harold E. Trekeil, Kansas State, '31: Elmer .1. W nde, UnivPr· sity of Maine, '19; and Leo ·F. Worden, West Virginia University, '25. Union's unofficial freshmen golf squad will play its second match since its formation when It meets the Manlius School team on the Municipal Course here Saturday. The yearlings previously defeated Mohawk School 6 to 0. Ben Lord Will be in number one position for the freshmen Saturday in the four man match with Man- lius. Foster Brown, who has not played with the first year men be- fore because he has been .engaged In tournament play, will be number two man Saturday and is expected to prove an important asset to the frosh squad. Herbie Watson and Leo Makin complete the darnet lineup. The freshmen have n() other matches scheduled after the one on Saturday but a match 'With the Nott 1'errace linksmen is being ne- gotiated. · .. * • The announcement of new cheerleaders for next year maltes us think again of- the cheering situation here. We have a: ways believed th t the Union yells were inadequate, colorless, confusmg, and com- l:tely uninspiring. In fact we had considerable trouble for a time ~- t' uishing between the \Varsity\ yell and the \Number 1.\ For t~a~n~attel\ who knows the \Long Yell,\ the :·short Ye;l,\ or the \Fight Yell?\ We'd like to see s~x_ne ne~ cheers wtth some ZIP in them, with originality and genuine sptrtt. Umon has exceptionally fine songs. It deserves better cheers. The spring sports season is nearly over. Union has not done very well except in var&lty lacrosse . and track. In other sports, ba~eball, ·'· d golf we'll be Juclty tf we break even when the years up. tFenmhs, an team's at·e faring better and from studying their records res man t • 'tl this year w.e get hope for nex yeat• s varst es. The construction of sever~! hydrogen-cooled tuJCbinc-generating units is now going on in the Schenectady turhinl' shop perhaps all because of that note- written by Dr. Whitney so many years ago. Each year (!eneral Electric makeg these awards tn Nnployees 1vho have done outstanding work, as provided in the Charles A. Coffin Foundation established in 1922. Charles A. Cuflin was organizer and first president of (;eneral Electric. GENERALfjELECTR'iC ___

Page Fcmr Leaves of Absence Granted Chillrud, Stanley Next Year Both to Carry on Studies and Conduct Research Work During 1937-3B Will Stanley at Chicago Study Economics From Philosophical Point Of View illysterioltS Uarauder JJ\rec:hs Dorm Slrou:ers A my~ter·il) us tnat·auder stalked through Old Cym Dorm sC>metime yesterday and wrecked t-he second: .fl<Jor showers. The shower on .the: t·ight of the room was pulled from: t h<> pipes and the left one was nH. brolten but badly bent. ' Vaughan .Alexander,· Jerry Wt·ight Ya-mall and Alden Mullins c·ottld th!'ovv no light on the my$tety, but F't ed Wyatt, proctor, ·believed that the destruction took '; 1ilace about dinnt>r time last eve- ning whPn all the dormitory resi- dents WPI'e eating. Mr. Wya-tt f.urthe,r said some boys believed that some of the w£'elt-end guests were the culprits but no n~atter w.ho it was \every effm t wi 11 be made to find out Monday, April 17. Dr. Philip· who committed the mi•deed and they will bt• made to pay for it.\ 0 - Propaganda Good Says Pres. Dennett THE GONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MAY 18, 1937 Seaior In~·urance Depress-ion Fails to Stunt Growth 'N,.Y.A. Employs 105 Campaign Starts -Of Colleg.iate Digest Publication i Students of College Student Committee Manages Plan tC) Increase Endowment Realizing ent1own1£'nt that Union',; ha\ p 1 even teLl the ex-· ®·~·------ While other college publications. school news.papet>s, magazines and! wet e mit ed in the depths of the de- yearbooks. ptession., the Cellegiate Digest With the NS:PA behind it, the came int·u being. From an idea first -Collegiate Digest appea-red in created in the heads of three Wis- October, 1933, 'I'he first issue was Twelve Percent Student Body Eam $14,000; ,Paid at Rate Of $.35 per Hour consin :<tudents, it has grown -into very much a •professional roto job, One hundted an·d five students, a weekly pa.pct· with a supscription with pictures £rom various col- Ol' appt·oxiH,al.e!y 12 per cent of list of u1·e1 a ha·If million college leges. It was hoped that after this tbe student ·boqy are employed at pan•ion <>f the college, an und.et·- student:<. issue ·college s.Hldents· would be- N. Y. A. wol'lt, Miss Frances E. gtadua.te commi>ttee compo•ed, of The CoHegiate Digest, the paper come interested ·in looking at such 'l'mvis, Director of .the Student Richatd Snyder, Norman Stt'Wtl:l t, ·containing pictutes of collegiate. a paper. The Digest was in debt, 'hlmployment Bureau announced .to- Curtb Stewat·t, James Riggs, Rob- life at vat ious colleges, was a pro- and the adver-tising uncertain. ,day. duel of the late ·'epression. A prev- The anxious months came and ·0· f the 105 students, fifty .per ert D. Evetest, G. Clatk Cummings, u At h d f 't d ious attarnpt to put out such a we,nt, · t e en. 0 1 8 secl>n year .cent are engaged in clerical work, Vibet·t 0. Fryer and :Richat'd J. paper had >been undertaken i.n 1929 · ,233' schools were subscribing to the· ten· per cent in la.bor, ten per cent Keye~ ate conducting a campaign but had fai-l'ed because it was run Digest. What had been pl'ainly a ,in research wmk, and the remain- a mung member·• of the ~enior .elas~ stt ictly on a commercial basis and ·-college rotogra-vure had became the· !ng thirty per cent divided between tu increa;;e the endowment fund by did. not appeal to the best interests. i·t;t·portant activfty of at; NS.PA di- Iibt·aty and general work. To date of the college students. ytswn the name Assomated ·Colle-. t.b!s year these stutlents ·have a genet ul <:!lass cuntt ibulion. I ... 32 h U , 1 f W! giate Press. · ea n 1 $ 14 000 00 n lu t rcee · n tvers ty 0 · s- · For its material the ACP t•elies • ·· . 1 e< · ' · · As une of the most common thing was needed to increase the· on cor-respondents ·on nearly all of The avera.ge student employed .fot'm~ uf investment, the life in- consi-n students decided that some- the country's campuses. Pictut,es .on N. Y, A. work devotes fot-ty- •unmce plan is cunsider·ed tht' fading circulation of the . various . aTe 'Obtained from national picture. three hours a. month t? the worl<. college newspapet s, and they be- ·set vt··ces a·nd ·from ft·ee ·lancers. . As the wo.rkers. are g·tven a flat simple;;\ formula for personal fi· 1 d · ieve that a roto.gravure sectwn, What started out to be an ad-· .rate of thlt'ty-ft ve cents an hour, nandal assist!lnce to the college. featut•ing pictures of college life, venture in sheer capitalism for:'tbis means that ,$15.00 is the ave.r- Htunlt•y, u\\i><tant ptof~s\or of phil- osophy, und Dr. Franklin ChHlmd, asHi•tan t IJI·ofessot· of educat·iun have been granted leave~ uf ab· ><ence for tlt\ ,;cholastic year 1937- 3~ to conduct special· teseat<.'lr wotlt, it wus announced today by President Dixon Ryan Fox. Dr. Stanley will :;tudy und c:u·t) on in veHt iga lion in the field of ad· vanced economic at the Univet:;ity of Chicago while Dr. Chillt ud will tlo t·esearch in educational p~ychol­ ugy at CoJu·mbiu Teacher's College. Some Ptnpaganda an Aid EdlJ(:ation; Warn::; A,g·ainst Fascists The plan, Lleveleped by Henry was the thing that was needed to three young colleg·e graduates is;:age monthly _st:pen.d. In _cet·tam to Gulnac '34, Douglas Smith '3-1 and do this. , now a business operated for the • cases where tt ts absolutely nec- Cmtis Stewatt '37 requires. that an Aftpr failing in an attempt to es- benefit of college newspapers. It Is;,essary!.~ students are allowed , to investor talte out a minimum pol- tabli~h Collegiate Digest on a safe to say that a half mill-ion stu- •-work iJt t:ours a mot;th, fo1• whtch icy of $1,000. The premium for the pure!)' commercial basis, its or- dents look f0!· the eight pa,ge Col-·· they tecetve approxtmately $20.00 Dl'. Chil!r·ud did his umleq:rad- uate wollt at the Univetsity of Wisconsin und joinetl. the Union faculty in 1928 a>< instructm in psychology. Previous to that time he taught at Brodie Polytechnic institute at Pt>mia, 111., and at Emory University tn Georg-ia. He i>< lteenly itHet·e:<ted in statistic\' and has aheady done ;;ome worlt of that nature. Aft~r teaching philosophy fot tnany yeat·s, Dt. Stanley fot the first time is now conducting a eoune in economics. His apptuach to the subject is theor·etical and it i~ in this field that he plans to du his advanced work next year. He is a graduate of Pennsylvanta State College and is well !mown to the student body as vutstty gnlt l'OUCh. --0--- IN THE MAIL To the Editor: Union College, which has been do· ing so well in gathering publicity during the past year, seems defin- itely to be passing up what \voultl probably be its greatest coup when tt rejected a proposal submitted by the unanimous consent of the Stu- dent Council last Friday in a spe- cial meeting. To those who have not yet been informed, the facts are these: Th<> college was informed on l•'t·i- day that if it would contribute th1 ee hundr·ed dollar.;;, one of its la- crosse players would be sent with an All-American team to play la- crosse in England during the com- ing summer vacation. Thinking the idea a wise one, President Evet·est of the Student council called a spe- cial meeting to appt·opriate the necessaty money--an act within the jurisdiction of the Council. The Council, after adequate discusslon, passed thP resolution unanimously, since it was well aware of the fact that the Student TfD! funds show a eonside1 able balance -· t\eputedly about two thousand dollars. This was all well and good until the ad- ministtation came to put its stamp of approval upon th<> suggestion, and the atlminh;tration stated that it would not ~anction such a pro- posal. Now the question is this: Why WON'T the cull{'ge add itR name to thosP who will be sending rrpre- sentatives to England? Surely there i.s sufficient money in the coffer><, and smely it would give the co!lege an unquestionable amount of pub- licity. It seems tathet small that the college should n.ot sanction such a pt·oposal both valuable to the buy and lu the college itself, fur both would gain material benefit, and the opportunity might not ]{lloclt again for many year·s. Wt> shuultl likt> u 1 ecunsideration. D. B. MI!~LEH u Prom a Success Says John Daves tContinued it·om Page ll \VP 1·ecovrred vaguely about Sun- day, waking in timc> for chapel, which is more than most .people can say. After a hectic ttip to Al· bany to catch bu\\\ and trains and such, we returned and died quietly in a corner fot· at least an hour. Monday morning reappeared with the Modern Language Depa1tment fighting against fate to t-ry to get some students to come to elght o'clock classes. a certain weak and pallid expression on the faces of •tudents, the Delta Phi'• waxlng gleeful over Ed Prest's Saturday night pre-curtain nap in the chair on the stage and Miriam Johnson's opening of the curtain to -display Eddie to a half-filled house, and in the calm light of a spring Monday morning, a solitary Scotch bottle popped effortlessly against one of the large trees near the Payne Gate. Sattlld:ay, May 15. --·Spealdng be- fate tlw unnual meeting of the Upper Hudson Association u.f Phi Beta Kappa at Union College, Dt·. Tyle1· Den.n<>tt, president of W-il- liams College, discussed \Educa- tion and Ptopaganda.\ Good IJtopa.ganda, said Dr. Den- nett, is a. dynamic force which achieves by a quicker, short-cut route the general aims of educa- tion. \Etlucational processes,\ he continued, ••at·e concerned too much with thr status quo.\ He believed· that propaganda should ,bE' used in education .. It cuuld be done •afely, he sai<t, at the college level, where the criti- cal sense of students may be de- veloped to detect it in its various manifestations. Propaganda he defined as the dramatic pr·esentation of current ideas. presented in such a fashion that it tends to pr·opagate the ideas among peop !e. Dr. Dennett predicted that with- in two or· thn•e yea.rs we will feel the fot·rps which are no·w operat- ing to control the freedom of ~peech and of thinking in schools and colleges. The battle is similar to that of a quarter century ago when the issue at stake was the frcedmo cf religion. In the general discussion which followed Dr. Dennett's paper, it was agreed that while communist propaganda \could not touch\ Amet·ican youth, there should be more <afeguards against fascist propaganda which is more subtle and therefore more dangerous.\ ----0------ Idle Drivel (Continued from Page 2) has appeal'ed, Cohen has passed his swimming test, the Schuyler Song Contest winners have been an- nounced, and Prof Smith has made an t>nor·. In regani tC> the Garnet, we like to offer our condolences to Grant Smith whose accomplish- ments ha-ve been attributed to an- other of th Union Smiths. A.nd to Bob Smith we offer our congratu- lations for· falling heit· to such a eonspicuous position. Wf' wrr<' very much fnReinatPd by the Jist of activitiPs snme of the juniors had following their name ·in the Garnet. Those who be- long~>d tn the International Rela- tion C'rub or thP Model Council W<>rr lucky ... these stretched out for a lint> or too. And then we're surprised at the number of stu- dents vvho belong to the Psychol- ogy Club. We think the president of thn·t c-lub should be informed. Then there was a junior who was on the \Student Committee to study Underelass Courses in Social Studies.\ That was a line and three qunrters long. And finally we have \ome of the boys whom we always thouglt t wcpe on thE' ground crew rot· wh<l simply took a short cut actos' the campus. The Juniors ought to study the Garnet pictures antl find out just what members at·e thri r classmates. It's quite startllng. Things have come to a sad sta.te. On t.JJ~ bulletin board \Wanted-- Student to do Guard Duty in Jack· son·,. Ganlen.\ Jabie. - ---0 Aug11stus Fox Is Chosen Ne\v Sigma Xi Secretary Monday, May 17.- The Union chapter of Sigma Xi elected Dr. A. H. Fox as secretary of the chapter· to succeed Dr. F'rank J. Stu.de r who recently resigned after occup-ying the office for a period of five yea.rs, it was announced tod~y. 01'. Overton Luhr and Professor M. 'F'. Sayre were elected to the committee on nominations o.f new members. The other officers of the society are Profess<Jr E. S. C. Smith, President: Professor V. Ro- jansk:y, Vice President.; Professor R. W. Abbett, Treasuret·. policy is appruximately $18. A ganlzers went to the National· legiate Digest each week, To have,a month, clause in the policy sta:tes that the Schol'astic P,ress Association (here- gained a half million readers in the. The worlt fDI' the current schol- interest or dividends wiU be al- after NSPA> and enl·isted Fred L, lean years 1933 to 1937 is a proud• nstic year wiH end of June 14, and lowed to accumulate until the sum Kildow, head of the now 16-year- fact to record ·on the books of any:' pt·esent indications tend to point uf $100 i~ reached. old association of college and high pu:blication. towards the continuance of the --·-- ;_work next ye&r without any major College to Receive $100 This sum will be reached within a pet iod of fifteen years or less, depen-ling upun the •ize of tlle pol- icy. Vn ''1. College will receive $100 and the . omaining accrued divi- dends or cash value of the policy will go to the holder whenever he wishe.; to cash in the policy. In the evet~t of death o.f the pol- icyholder before the fifteen year period is up, Union College will re- ceive $100 and the beneficiat·y will 1 eceive $900. President Fox, Dean Gat·ls and Comptt·oller Hoadley have all en- dorsed the plan. \While it doesn't look like a very large sum of money for any one class, if the plan is followed out and 150 men in each of fifteen graduating classes contributes $100 apiece, this will amount to .$225,000 for· Union. This plan has been very success- fu'l at M. I. T.\ said Mr. Hoadley. CALENDAR Today 7:30 p. m.-Newman Club Meet- ing, Right Wing Silliman Hall. 10:00 a. Jerome Chapel. 'l'omorrow m.-Daily Assembly, Smith '39, Memorial Thursday 10:00 a. m.-Daily As;;embly, Dt·. Frank Studer, Memorial Chapel. Friday 10:00 o. m.-Daily Assembly, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, Organ Re- cital, Memorial Chapel. 2:30 p. m.- Choir Rehearsal, Memorial Chapel. Faculty Women's Club, Audu- bon Exhibit, Hale House, aft- el·noon and evening. Man Superior To Animals Asserts Rev. Lynn H<mg h ''Man's power in naming things, experiences, and ideals is what dis- tinguishes him from other crea- tures. His ability to use \VOrds to describe certain reactions is what· gives him a supet'iority over other animals,\ stated R<'V. Lynn Harold Houg.h of the Drew Seminary of Madiso.n, N. J., in hls Sunday Chap<•! speech. The starting point in life, ac- cording to Rev. Hough, is finding the right word for the things we see, feel, and think. To give a false name to a thing that is not real is a tragedy, \The grc>atest name of all,\ sald the preacher, \is the name which represents ·the ultimate reality and it is the perpetual testimony of the Christian religion that we de- fin~ his name best when we see God in the face of Jesus Christ. hear his speech in the words of Jesus Christ and undet·stand his character through the acc>ounts of JeRUS in the gospels.\ 0- Registration for make-up tP~t\ to be given on Monday, May 24, must be made at the office of thP Dean befote five o'clock 'Thursday, May 20. Students must obtain at the Dean's Office a slip to be signed by the instructor giving _the course, r·el urn slip to the office, and pay a ·registralion fee of one dollar. Office of the Dean. FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE June 1937 tAll examinations will bE~ held in the gymnasium unle~s otherwise indicated>. Tuesd~y. Junt> l, 9 a. m. Bio>logy 21 Chemistry 31 Italian 1 Latin 1 Physics 11 Social Studies 3 Social Studies 30 Social Studies 42 Stt·uctural Design Tues-day, Junt> 1, 2 p. m. Psychology 1 Psychology 21 Wednesday, Junt' 2, IJ a. m. Bi<Jlogy 12 English 30 Mathematics 31 Social Studies 10 Social Studies 33 Water Supply \Ved.nesda~·. June 2, 2 p. m. Biology 23 Building Construction Greek 2 History of Art t Bailey Hall, 300} Psychology 12 Social Studies 28 Thw•sday, Jtme 3, 8 a. m. Engineering Law English 20 French 21 (Bailey Hal!, t·oom 109} Geology 22 <Geology Labor·utory} HPat Engines Latin 22 Physics 1 Psychology 2 Social Studies 27 Thermodynamics Thursday, .June 3, 2 p. m. Chf'mistry 3 Geology 12 t Geology Laboratory) GPrrna:1 1i t Sop h. Elem. l Get·man o t Soph. Int.l Physics 33 Psychology 3 Sm•ia' St udie9 2 Friday, .hm<• 4, !I a. m. Biology 22 Chemistry 2 Junior EE Titt'•ll'Y English 25 Latin 2 Mathematics :H Physics 2 Physics 3 Physics 23 Social Studies 20 Streets and Highways Structures FI'iday, ,June 4, 2 p. m. Geology 1 German 5 Ge·rman 5 Merhanies Physics 21 <Fl'. EIPm.l <Fr. Int.l t Sophomore l Social Studies 38 Hattll'day, ·hmi' 5, !l a. m. Chemist1y :::1 Chemistry 22 ('ompmative J it' •:utute En~dneering· 1 a\J t('I:!}) German 10 German 20 Senior EE I.ub. Physics 31 Social Studips 21 Social Studies 50 Type.;; of Construction i\'.aturday ,Junt' 5, 2 p. m. Mathematics 2 Mathematics 12 Mathematics :!1 Mathematics 22 Social Studies 12 Social Studies 39 - - -- -0- .. _,_ ('oncordiensis Meeting Monday, •Jun<.> 7, 9 a. m. ' Chemistry 1 There will be an important meet- ing of the Junior Board of the Concordiensis Wednesday- after-. noon at 5 o'clock Ail members . must be present. Concrete Seniot· EE Theory English 23 F'rench 20 Greek 12 Latin 11 Mechanical Design · Social Studies 37 Social Studies 51 Monday, J1u1e 7, 2 p. m. English 1 (students reporting to· Professor Henick, Vva.inger and to Mr. Hislop wiU be ex- amined in Bailey Hall 300} English 10 German 5 (Junior) Music •ruesday, J.utL~ 8, 9 a. m. The Bible Biology 11 Chemistry 12 German 2~ tBai!ey Hall, l'Oom 106) Greek 1 Mathematics 1 Mechanics (Advanced) Social Studies 32 Social Studies 41 Tm>sday, June 8, 2 p. m. Biology 1 Chemistry 11 Elements of EE <Soph.) Social Studies 48 \'VednPsday, June 9, 9 a. m. German :> l Seniot·) Mathematics 11 Social Studies 1 \Vednesday, ,June 9, 2 p. m, Elec. Eng. Lab. <Junior) Ft·ench 1 French 2 French 1() Thursday, .June 10, 9 11. m. Social Studies 11 Thursday, ,JunE' 10, 2 p. m. German 1 German 2 ------0 • Frosh Y ~arbooks Planned <Continued fwm Page 11 order to facilitate publication in' the fall. Many campus scenes wi.ll also be included. As a supplement to this book t!'le Offices of the Secl'etary wil! con- tinue to publish its book o•f in- struct-ions for the freshmen. H will contain college songs and cheet•s, and descriptions of the fraterni tles, buildings, students' organizations, and a maJ> of the campus. The remaining members of the staff as announced by the Publi- cations Board last .week are Wil- liam D. O'·Connor, Rfrbert Walter, Jr .. and A Ian Wrana of the class of 1939. AMERICAN Al LAUNDRY The !\lost Perfect I.aundry Work ln the Capitol District Phone 4-3166 1030 Barrett St. 633 State St. Thru to Nott Terrace change in its administration. The plans are, 'however, not settled as yet, and it will probably be about the middle of June before definite word is t·eceived. All students who >have filed applications for assist- ance next year have had their ap- .plicaHons filed. The t·epairlng and re-decorating of the Green Room at the Mounte· :banks Theatre, as well as the con- struction of .the large switchboaNl ,to control the lighting of the thea· ·tre has been the I'esult of N. Y. A work. Miss T1·avis said that the concensus of opinion seems to be very favorable towards the work· ets, and that the professors and other· supervisors seem well ,pleased with the results obtained. Professor 'E. S. C. Smith, who is directing the work of four students 'in the Geology Department, sub· stanttated Miss Travis. \The boys are doing a wonderful job,\ he said, and added that the depart- ·ment would be in a less attractive state if it v.cere not for the work of the students. The workers are real'ranging, classifying, and label- , ing- the Wheatley collection of min- erals, and according to Dr. Smith they have done a fine job. ----01---- FOR. LAGGARDS All Seniors who have not obtained their Commencement Programs and Announcements as yet will please call at the Delta Upsilon House for 'them. The ACME Barber Shop Welcomes All Union College Students 509 UNION ST. Nearest the Campus llllerested in Schenectady lnlernted i11 UNION MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Street Jeweler 166 JAY STREET Watch and Jewelry Repairing n Special!}' PARKER PENS PHONE 6-3456 GAZETTE PRESS Printers .. ~ ) I f. ~ ··r- ! '•. ' i J J J F Il fl 2: 'L d tc li T p r T tl si Sl 'I d t n b c a t to [ s t VI c g a v s a g ~ p t ( c t c 1< ( 1i g t: c u 11 0 b a il j J d 1 r a b c c t l i c 1 t g

dy of at E. to- per ork, flat lOUl', nec- to ' and point the The as who ir ap- con~ thea· Y. A the to be work and well is udents sub· boys br'' he ractive work are label- min- Smith btained and please for nts ART I ~. '•. ! Do You Wa:nt Your Tax Rais~d? Junior Prom Shows Profit Vol. LX., No. 58 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, 1\IAY 21, 1937 PRICE FNE CEN'ifS Everest Announces: Bu:siness Staff Member Program of Events Fftr Moving Up Day Procession Forms in Reverse Order of Class Precedence; Brown Leads as Marshall Name Student Council Dowling, Delaney Allouette· · Singers; Old Members Will ~rap New Tel'l'ace Council 'Thursday, lllay 20.---The progtam for Moving Up Day, l!'l'iday, May 28, was announced today by Robert D. ·Everest, Student councli Presi- dent. At 8:45 the classes will begin to form under the direction of Kenneth N. Brown, class marshalL The individual class marshalls ap- pointed by BPOwn are George- Doyle '38, David Miller '39, and Thomas Ralston '40. MARVIN M. MILLER In reverse order of procedure, - th.e freshmen class will gather out- Old Audubo·n Pri·n.ts side the Memorial Chapel and the sophomore class at the Old Chapel. The front of Hale House has been To Be Shown Today designated as the meeting place for· . the juniors and ·waldron's Cor- ner for the senior·s. The procession is scheduled to begin at 9:00 o'clock. After the classes have been assigned seats, a college song will be sung under the direction of E<igar A. Moul- ton, Jr. Following this, John ~­ Dow·ling and John P. Delaney Will sing the \Aiouette Song.\ It is their pleasant task to reveal the weaknesses and discrepencies of chat\acter in the members of the graduating class. Next in order on the program are the Moving Up exercises. This will be f.ollowed by the seniors' singing of the \Terrace Song.\ The awarding of life passes to mana- gers and captains follows, with Norman R. Stewart '37 malting the presentations. Included on the program will be the announcement of the Student Council for next yeat·; and the charge by Robert D. Everest, re- tiring president, who is in general charge of the day's functions. Fol- lowing the tapping of the Terrace Council by the retiring members, William K. Potts, president, will give the charge~ There are to be two omtss1ons (his year from the customary pro· cedure. The burning of frosh caps under the supervisi()n .of the Sopho- more Committee and the painting of the Idol by the sophomores will be discontinued because of !;he abolition of ft•esllmen rules earlier in the year. Faculty Woman's Club Shows Set of Folios Bought by Dr. Nott iu 1844 The Faculty Woman's Club will exhibit a collection of Audubon's \Birds\ from 3:30 to 7:30 this aft- ernoon in Hale House. The exhibit will be open to students, while guests of the club will be asked to contribute fifty cents to the Club's scholarship fund. The set was unearthed from the third floor -of the Union College Library, and is one bought by Dr. Nott from the artist himself in 1884. Because of the unusually large size of the volumes, called the elephant folio edition, less than 100 sets of which have been sold in the United States, they are sel- dom exhibited. The volumes were· ptint~d in this unusual size so that all tl:e birds could be drawn to na:lll·al size, thus requiring the largest possible page for such birds as the wild turkey and the eagle. Mrs. Warren C. Taylor is chair- man of the exhibit. Helmer Webb, Librarian of Union College, will give three lectures during the course of the afternoon and eve- ning. The first will be at 3:30 p. m. and will be followed by talks at 4':30 and 7:30. First Concordiensis Editorials Upheld Such 1,/lings as Cows, ·women ~ -------- Sixty years a.go, The Concor- the greatest natinn-wide interest diensls was officially born on the in 1877, was one entitled, _\Foe- Union College ca:mpus. Several mina.! Ecce! Foen1inn!\ Ce1 tain previous attempts at putting out members of the student body had a newspaper had failed mis~ra:~ly, been rudely accosting young but this time. a college publlcatwn women, who wailte<l past the par- was here to stay. 'The content of tals of South College. When the this new newspaper was dtasti- tap of the young woman's heel cally different from that. of the was heard, some wit would call cuerent issues, and the 1deas of \heads out,\ whenupon all the the editors stril{e a humorous dormitory residents would rush to tone to present-day ears. the windows to cast their eyes Several culturally enlightening upon the fail' one. ideas and customs prevalent. thE;m, The editors quickly took the ras- can be gleaned: from the _ed1tor1al cals to tasl{, \It is not absolutely columns. One of the articles de· pleasant for any modest young scribed the painting of the I~ol lady to be so attentively regarded as \it was··humiliating to Umon by student eyes,\ the editorial ar- College that hei' gua1·dian deity gued ,\or even for her to keep should be so often meta~or- step to the tune whisied from the phosed.\ \At first,\ the wrzter windows by her a.dmi!'ing specta- claimed, \the image was perfectly tors.\ white. One morning·, the ca1:11pus True to precedent, both local and awoke to find the stone flg';lre distant newspapers gathered up garbed in a sombre black, ~rth tile story and printed it with vary- red eyes and mouth. From time ing degrees of distortion. One of to time on t·he painting of the Idol the most amusing was printed in grew into the tradition which was a New Orleans paper. \The stu- so actively maintained by stu- dent body of South Union College, dents a few years ago. Schenectady, New 'Yol'lt, must be a A later editorial came out in de- wild crowd,\ the southern pa:per fense of the .cows, which were tllen stated. \'£hey station a cqmpanwn pastured on college property. A at a window overlo-oking the street, campaign had risen to sweep the and as a lady-passer is announced, milk bearing animals from tbe this sentinel shouts, \heads out!\ campus. The Coricordiensis staf~ and with a simultaneous yell, half quickly championed the co~s a dozen curly pates are stretched cause with a few comments. It out of every wind{)W. The profes- would be a shame to withdraw the sors are furious, and counsel t~e cows\ the writer said, \as it was ladies to a~wici Union College whtle ,plea;ant to hear the milk swish th.e mania lasts. But the ladles say into the wash pitcb.er.s.\ th.ey are interested in man!~· and P.:obably the editorml that dt·ew ca.n never dl!»ert the Union. Miller Is Elected To New Position On Concordiensis Post of Associate Busines::; Manager Given as Reward For Excellent Work Idol Elections Postponed Ability Will Be Stressed in Pu hlica tion Board Elections Wednes<.!~y. May 19.--At a s p~­ cial meeting of the Publications Boai·d this after noon, Marvin Mil- ler '38 was elected associate ·busi- ness managet· of The ConcordiEn- 3is. At the same time, it was de- cided to postpone the elections to the new Idol Board until next we~>k. John G-ilmour '38 was recefl,tly elected· business manager· of The Concmdi~n.;is. Miller, who has shown ex<.eptional promise in the business <lepartment, was named .o this newly created position for this 1easou. The exact duties of Mill~r as associate business man- ager will be determined by a s,pe- cial committee consisting of Dean ::!harles F. F'. Garis, Hyman A. En- zer, and Cilmour, which was ap- pointed to define his position. Elections Soon The new members of the I<iol Board will be elected under the old constitution. Under this s~s­ tem, the Publications Board will elect only the editor-in-chief and those associate editors whom it may deem necessary to be mem- bers of the board. As in the past, the editor will be chosen because of his executive ability and he will: not be selected because of any class affiliation. Thus a freshman or sophorn<>re may become editor- in-chief of the magazine. The elec- tions were postponed because of i.nsufficient data on the proposed members. Miller, a member of the Kappa Nu fraternity, resides in Amstet·- dam. He is a member of the coilege band and debating team. He hn.s been consistently mentioned on the Dean's List and has been a mem- bet· of The Concordiensis staff since his freshman year. ----0--- Free Nautical Experience Given at Summer Scho()l The American Nautical Ac.ad- cmy will eonduct its eig-hth annual summer course from June to Oct- obez· this year. All boys betw·een thE ages of 10-26 years are eligible to enroll. PracUcal ship expet·ietw~c• on hoard a t1aining ship will be given free to applicants who m·e ac·ccpted. The course includes five months training on the 2500 ton sailing ship MARSALA with no charges fn· liv-ing quarters on the ship or fo1· inst1·uction. The only required· ex- pense being for three daily meals which are fo1 ty-nine cents ear h. Free medical se1vices are rendered by the ship's doctor while on board, and students· are allowed sh.m·e leave on .Sunday to attend any de- sired chu.rch service. A daily routine is followed on board ship including p1actical in- stt·nction in signalling, rowing, ship-work, handling and use of mo- tor and life boats, life-saving and navy drills. Further instruction in- c! tides life-buoys, first aid, compass, log, lead, ground tackle, and look·· out duties. At the end of the cour.se an examination is given and those finishing with a \B\ grade or .bette!\' will be eligi-ble for fur- ther instruction. The r ecruitir\g offices are in New York and Washington and as ac- commodations are limited, those desiring to take advantage of the course this summer should apply immediately to the American Nau- tical Academy, Washington, D. C. ---0---- Joltnson Skidmore Speaker Professot• Burges Johnson, chai.r- man of the field of English, has accepted the a.ppointment as com- mencement speaker at Ski.dmore College, June 7, it was announced today. Student Tax May Increase Next Year; New Members of Tax Committee Named; College Poll Favors Rise in Music Fund ~------- --~\\ ' I Student Body Favors Increase RESCLTS In Tax Allotments for Six Ol'ganizations Many Reforms Asked An a.ppmpt ialion ;nPrease fur six campus activities wus favored bv the majo1ity of the 453 Btutlents who answe1ed the questionnaire distributed last month by tlte Stu- d~nt Tax Committee, the r·esults of which were announced today. Sevetal 01ganizations wet·e r ecom- mended fo1· cuts. Nearly 75 per cent of tho!\e vot- ing voiced their approval of the college band and urged it receive a larger appt•opriation. Other or- ganizations which received sup- por·t were The Mountebanks, The Concordiensis, the Outing Club, the Glee Club, and The Garnet. A decrease in funds was recom- mended for some organizations in varying degree. Among- these were the Radio Club, the debating team. The Idol, the Publications Board, the Student Council, and the Model League of Nations. Improvements Answers to the questionnaire in- cluded many opinions on what could be done to impl'Ove some of the activities mentioned on the list. Most of the students believed that the band could be improved if its funds were increased and new uniforms and more musie, pro- vided. The awarding of a letter t-o every member was also urged, The need for reforms in activi- ties suppm·ted by the stndent tax was stz.cssed by several who an- swered the questionnail·e. Some felt that 'rhe Garnet should be replacE>d by a senior yearbook, while one person characterized the ann1.1al as \an expensive joke--too expensive.\ Another· said The Gar- net is \useless sentimentality.\ The Concordiensis was criticized for its lack of pictorial features. The Glee Club should have more benefits for non-participating stu- dents if it is to receive a larger budget, according to some answers, while the Outing Club should re- ceive an increase because it has a very large membership. The other results of the poll: Do you favor the idea of hav- ing the control of any of these activities removed from the students and placed entirely in the hands of college officers.? Yes ...................... 26 No ....................... 23~ • • La) Do you read the Concor· diensis? Usually .. , ..... , ......... 372 Occasionally . . . . . . . . . . . • . 53 Never .................... 1 <bl Do :rou attend the Mounte banks' performances? Usually ................. 201\ Occasionally ............. 177 Never .................... 4e tcl Do you Pnjoy college band concerts? Yes ...................... 334 No ....................... 68 Questionnnh~s AnsWl'l'ed Class of 1940 ....... 156 Class of 1939 ....... 100 Class uf 1038 7-1 Cla:;,; of 1V37 . . . . . . . . . . . t;l N<> t•lusH giVl'n .... • Fuvur· l•'nvur A<\th it-,v ))pt•rt•ust• lm•-rt•as•• Band . . . . . . . 71.l 219 MountPb:tnks 7-l ConcordiensiH . . ;g Out'in,;- Club ... 98 Glee Club 78 Gat net . . . . 97 Radio Club ..... 100 DPbating . . . . 98 Old Idol ...... 137 Pub. Board .... 94 Student Council 13fl Model LeaguP. 122 !57 110 14-1 129 10-1 96 84 106 62 84 fl7 Fox Lists Changes In Albany Faculty Dr. Cunningham Succeeds Ordway as New Dean of Albany Medical ('(}!lege Tu!'sday, May 18.- President Dixon Ryan Fox tonight an- nounced th!' resignation of Dr. Thomas Ordway, dean of the Al- bany Medical College or t:nion University, and at the same time named Dr. Robert S. Cunningham. professor at Vanderbilt Medical School and former faculty member of the Johns Hopkins Medical Col- lege, as his successor. Other changes in the st2ff, tu be- come effective July 1, inc Juded the retirement from the facu.ty list of Dr. Arthur W. Elting and the resignation of Dr. John A. Samp- son, as chairman of thE depart- ment of g)·necology and obstetrics. However, Dr. Ordway and Dr Sampson will remain as professors. The changes, Dr. Fo:x stated. wel'e necessary because of the pro- visions of the retirement statute passed by the board of directors and because of Dr. O!'dway's d~>ci­ sion to devote mm·e tim~ to private practice in Albany. Dr. Ordway, dean for the past 22 years, will continue as professor of medicine, but wlll resign July 1 as chief of the medical service at Albany Hospital, a post he has held in conjunction with his medi- cal school position. Dr. Sampson Will ternaii'l as pi'ofl'ssot· of gynec- ology and obstetrics, but Dr. Elt- ing will devote his entire time to practice worl{. The executive committee of the Medical College faculty, which !'ec- ommends the appointm~nt of de- partment heads of the Albany Hospital, will meet later in the month to name a successor to Dean Ordway for the post .of chief of the medical service at the hospi- tal. Junior Prom Financial Report The followin-g report on the expenses and income of the 1938 Junior Prom Committee is an official statement to the student body on the financing of one of the most successful Proms in r<>cent years. The committee reports a surplus of $291.50, an increase of $131.36 over last year. Income Sale of Tickets t 287l, Booths, etc. . ............ $2.092.00 Expenses* Orchestra . . . . . . . . . . . . . ................................ $1,000.00 Decorations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200.00 Favors and Programs . .. . .. . . . . . . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. .. . .. . . . 293.50 Police . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22.50 Gatemen and Janitor Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45.50 Rent of Piano and Furniture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20.00 Flowers, etc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . 51.50 Bonus to Prom Committee . .. . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . .. .. . .. . . . 45.00 Printing ............ , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14.00 Rent and Wiring of Gym . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58.50 Telephone Charges ................ _. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30.00 Miscellaneous . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20.00 $:1,800.50 Estimated Net Surplus ...... , ......................... $ 291.50 • Some or the expense items at·e estimatrd since ali biiiR havr not bE>en submitted. Final audit will not be possiblu befoze June 10, 1937. W. W. BENNETT, Coordinator May 19, 1937. Freshman Yearbook, U. C'.C' . A. Ask Funds for First Time from Tax Budg-et Outing Club Needs More llPcausc oi the unusually large inC't ease in the 1937-38 budgPts for almo~t all ,;tudent activities there is a tlefitlite pos8ibilit:r that ·the student tux m•xt year will be 1 aisl'd b~· at ll'a~t thrE'e or fout~ d'ullars, a~ron.!ing to the Ta..x Com- mittee. The addi tiona! expense of fi- nancing the .ne-w Freshman Ye-ar·- bouk, t h~ tequest fur an appropria- tion from the College Christian As- sociation which has never before nepded to draw from student funds, the greate1· budget asked by the Outing Club, which has be~n run befot·e on a nominal account, ar·e among the majority of the ac- ti\·itil's whteh arP malting de-mands for inc nasE>s for next yE'ar. Nrw Offict•rs The nE>wly eleC'ted members of the Student Tax Committee were announc~d today by nobE'rt Ever- est '37, p1esident of the Student Council. H. Laurence Achilles '38, was eleeted chairman, with Vilmar Bose '37. and Hnlph Morgan '39, in the positions of senior member· and sect:etary, respt•t·lively. The re- tiring mem bets of the committee a1·e-: Ricllat <I Snydc•r '37, chairman; and Richm·d Passenger '37, senior member. Vincent Smith, '38, has heen tem- porarily appointed as the represen- tative ft <Jm the Studmt Council until the- new president of that body is c!ccted. Achille,;, r·esidPnt of Sehenectad:~o·, is a me1nbC'l' of Sigma Phi. He is a letterm.an in hockey and was 1·e- cently tio=ct Pti to Hale Club. Bose lives in Schenectady and is pHsi- dent of the Py1·amid Club. Mor- gan, meoober of Delta Upsilon, is from Buffalo. He was en the staff of the Cuncm diensis in his ft esh- man yeaz·. Wednescay night hearings fot· the Glee Club, the Eand, the De- bating Club and the Outing Club were hel<i in the stude-nt activi- tiPs offie e. Tonight thet e will be hearings <>n The Concordiensis, 'The Garnet and the College Christian Association. The other student activities will be hE>ard ail next weel-t by the new Student Tax Committee. All busi- ness rnu~t be completed before Moving LJp Day, Friday, May 28. The ge.neral enlargement of the budgets: indicaHs the necessity for accommodating student desires, the Tax Committee announced. The student fee for next year will probably bE' about $14 or $15, be- rause of this ~welling of the budget. Last year thP student tax was \reduced'• from $36.50 to $11.50. The \a-called r?dUE'tinn was but a shift- ing of the $25 of student money from thr student tax budget to the genera.! college tuition for the cost of athletics which came under the control r>f the college administra- tion last year. ----- --0---- New l)ot·mitorv Rooms Have Modet'n ·Equipment The pt-esent i'enovations in South College Dormitory will effect rhanges in all of the rooms south of the hall in the Middle Section ex- cepting those rooms now known as 2, 5, 9 and 13. All of the rooms for the two sections which were previ- ously kn<>wn as the Middle Section and North Section will be combined and known as the New North Sec- tion. Entrance to all rooms will be through the present Middle Section halls and stairways. Twenty-three additional rooms will be in service and all of the rooms in the new North Section will be renovated. This entire section will be equipped with new furniture. This secLion has also been wired for radio with a plug conection in each room ·con- necting- with a common antenna in the attic. No advance in price of dormitot·y rooms has been made for the coining year. Jieservations for next year are now being made in the Cotnjlttoller's Office.

Page Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 21, 1937 @nnror JUST fN ties should be better supported and how. In 1'1 other words, we recommend a more :pel'- : ~onal roncen1 on the part of the interested :,,' member:s of the student Lody in the ~~Hcca- ,· --- .. -~~-C-drt_s_a_P_e-rs_a_P_a_r-ol_e_Jl_s_sa_i_\---~--;;tion of student funds. We're haunted by the Gentlemen., in last Tuesday's is- refuses to s.pend, 300 bucks to send Nlg:ht M'USt Fall <M¢tro-Goldvryn.- sue John G Davis <he of the a lacrosse, Jlla.yer to Emope when ,Ma::yer; Proctov'sl staads above tltE \Id0l\ set) told you Lin true \Id~l\', FouNoEo 1877 •emotionalized l'eaction against the lilodel t()J6 Member JqJ7 t::usociated Cblleesiate Press Distributors of OJD.eeiate Dit:Sesf style) about prom weelt-end. Or it wou,ld ,pt·ove ,of great benefit to ,<>-rd inai'Y r·un of AJinePican-!U.adE rather, he was supposed to tell you the college . , . ,HOW much does rnelcdramas and honol\ pi<:tt:ues of prom week-end. However, if you the tax c<>mmlttec surplus r·eally, f<ll' two reasons. One Is what ha.s FlN ANC'IAL OBLIGATIONS, read the piece you know how much amount to ... AND WHAT is it. bee-n called the \suprise\ pet:fo~:·- 'fh · · t st'11 · t•-•,tetl,ent 1.11 info could be gathered from it. g'oing to b-e usc'' for ... WHY 'nr\ of Rober·t Montgo:mer,~• ·as~ , ere IS a very 111 €1'e l g S u ' , The ar,ticle was of patticular sig- u ~ ' \ -' ~ LengHe. REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL. ADVERTISING 6'( this issue of The Concordiensis fl'()Hl the nificance b-ecause of the style in did last years prom committee, homicidal maniac. T'he othct\ i.~ '! which it was written. Li,ke most \overdo\ everything to such an ex-, the- evocation of a casurrHy buillt Dean and the Comptroller CO!lCel·ning· the Wl'iting het·e, it sounded lilte a tent that this yeat·'s committee got yet tremendous sense of honor' b-y unbusiness-like f<.lshion with which gradu- fashion article in the \Women's relatively nothin.g fo1· their work ::means which we have corne t.o Home ComiJanion..\ Sooo, for your , .. WH.A'I' !tind of plays wiH Het't National Advertising Service, Inc. Co/log• P,&I/shers Representative 420MADISONAVE. N'EWYORK, N.Y. CHICAGO· • BOSTON • SAN FRANCISCO L.QS ANOE:LES ,. PORTLAND • SEATTLE Tht> uf\ficia'l newspapel\ of the students of UtHu n College, Published Tuesdays and Fri- days tht'oughout the college yeat·, except during l hr.e~Lh1.as ~md Spring__:r__:e_:_ce.:.:\=--·~_ec:.s. ______ _ 1 'tlbl ica tiun Office, 1'he Gazette Pres,;, 334 State St, Schenectady, N, Y .. Telephone -1-4141 _ Ent<•t·t•tl' ut the Schenectady Post Office a,; :Second Class Mail Matter ---- ::-lub,;cri ptlon price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a y<>ar·; delivt•red anywhere in _th~nited States, Edilodal Hooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. '11E'lephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Senior Boal'd Hyman A. -Enzer ................ Editor-In-Chief 11 s ~. ~outh Culh:t;l'~U-!.11:!~ Ht>bert H. l:<'er-gu:oon. , .... , ... Managing ELlitut l,~l l'p~ilull lluU~t\--1-~i'lU Julius J, Bundgus ...... , .. ,., .... News Editor :.: ::-; ~. :-;uuth l .. .._.ul~g.L·- tl-~~~~~ Hetuy D. H.artman .. ,.,., ,,,,,l:<'eature Editol' ~IJ L'uiuu .\\t•ttue-4-:•lti:J Carl R. TI'ahman. , . , , . , .. , . , , . , .Sport:; Editor Kapl.Hl StgUla HuUf;t> -1-h3!!5 John lL Gilmour .. , .. , ....... Business Managet· Pt...·lta. LT1•~tlo11 Huus~ --4-'i:.t~:! i\lur vin M, Mlller .. Associate Business Manager l\:ap[1a :--:u 4-i:l:~l Alfr-ed R. Sdgle .... , .... Circulation Manager Kawa :-;u-4·'io~ l Junior Board ASSOCIA'l'E EDITORS IledJei t 0. Fox Robert A. Saaf Fredel'ick iV. Hequembourg Jerome Smith H. Wyman Hitchcock Edward C. Retartylt DJ.vid B, Miller Hobert C. Waiter, Jr. Sophomore Board Assistant Editu•·s C. Hussell Deyo, Christopher M. Fahy, Rupert L, Gilmot,e, Will,iam G. Gol'miey, Albert H. Halavin, Richard S. Harrison, George L. Peclt, Lawrence V. Pellettier. Jr., Thomas H. Ral- ~ton, Townsend J. Rifenbaty, John J. Steidl!\ ~L Gale J:{of!man. Business Sta.ff ~lux Len. Stanly Liebman. Douglas Murphy. t;,•nt~P Halph, John 1'r·umbull, W~llel\ I<'allon. (.'inulation Staff Alan \\'t'unn. Stante~' Gertz, \Villiam Schaill, Jolin l'ullly, [{,ubetl Eiorwr, Leo KupPC'lti Fredrick lleqUL'muotwg· As::>istants ,J. Stnit h \\'. llitrhcock R. Deyo A. \Ynma Friday, May 21, l!l3i TIALANl'ING BUDGETS .-\ccorcl ing to the Student Tax Committee, the ap.prop1·iations for student activities m•xt year \\'ill have to be gTeatly increase<!, perhaps $3 or $·1 a stude11t. Obviously the studt'nts m·e interested enough in extl·a cur- ricul:w activities to warrant an increase in llll'i r tax€& next yem·. Th~ unexpected appropriations, notc1l>ly for the new I<,reshman Yem•book and the CD!h·l!,·e Christian Assodation, which has IH't'll nm on a special non-student fund up to th. is year. indicates that there is not too great <t general increa::;e. Yet the ten- dency nt\ the other activities seems tu !Je tmvards an enlarging- of the budgets. There is, undoubtedly, a lot of waste. ;\la ny of lhe managers have probably added L'XLia lnmdredR here and there which they t•xpl'ct will be sliced off by the tax comtnit- l<'e. On the \Vhole, students are going to pay mo1·e to give themselves, or most of lhem~elves, more. 'fhe results of the committee's question- naire, indicative principally of emotional ra- thL•r than rational thinking·, is by no means the eriteria for judging appropriatio11:o for next yea~·. Le::;s than 500 students had their say, and n1ost of them we1·e almost equally divided on how taxes should be increased o1· decreased. But if the students want to increase their tax next rear, they're doing it by asking for mo1·e and financially merl'iet· student ac- tivities. To some, raising or lowering the student tax doesn't mean a thing. There are otben; V.'ho have a faint concern about what ltaJ!I)t'lls l(J thPir money. To those we advise a more cal'eful consideration of what aetivi- wte::; of Union Colleg:e have l'eg!Uld€d the information. and amusement we carroll che>ose lo do next year .. , associate with English mclodrarlka repayment 0 f loans t!<l th€ college. present- lWE HOPE WE'RE WRONG> ... ::films, particularly those of kl:fFed FACTS ON THE PROM •. , a TIME FOR A FEW SHORT:iEt~chcoclt. It seems tu ,!Je a collegiate habit to .ns-. new high in attendance was ONES .. - we h~ar ~ill ~~ynold:o: But Mr. Montgomer·y Is , 1 \ 0 , ::;ume th<.1t lmuls contracted in underg;eitdllate r'eached ... 350 couples were Pl'es- sp~nt T_uesda.y mght m J~ll after, su:g)l'ise to those who rcmemtm- IUs cnt ... the most since befot'e the be'?.g plclt.ed up for'. speedmg ... : :rcrn.al'kable performance in u e Hig days are pa:rt or youth's gentle fling- which depression ... profit of about 300 w.e ~e not sur~-we J_ust heard ... , :House some years ago an'() 'Who C<lll lJe easily diSI'Cg'[llded when !11lWe seri- . ~~ecl<csom' m. t't'· teaelsl~n athenefwacehiogfhm. u'ch', Btl! s ,been domg .lJIU~e well lately, lla ve believed that once giVe11 good' ... ask, the. Psl Us about Bob, ruaterial he would ,repeat. fn. the, ous considem tions must be faced. llol'v·ever, criticism did a wonderful job . • . Fer~~~ons mghlmare. Wednes<la.y :, interm he has been a plarbo::y jn . . . . . I hit of the night, of course, was' mommg- he dreamt thete the comlortwg· sense of security wlnc l a Russ Morg-an ... ED FITZ _ .. were snak~s' in his bed with him:, more pictmes than we ca,re {o t-e· ::;mall co lleo'e may o·ive to an underp:aduate \I have been. w~tching proms for,, , , . jumping out Gf bed he cavorted': member., }'l'ot that he ·~layed h~~tlty, \\' • '\' , . . · 14 years. 'l'hts ts the best yet-' out into the hallway yelling· at the' bmt he Vtsr~ed, some \¢'Y biJ.d f'lllr:Js,, does not mean that all practical affau·s can, considered from the point of view top ,of his lungs . , . and then he, 0 ,rte of wht,ch was tl):e rcgnttai;Ie be shr•tu·o·ed off when the undel~D'Tadu·lte: of band, ,decorations, and spil'it of woke u:p. , . Thatcher, his room-, lettieoat Feavel'. • ,,., \ ' , the crowd\ . . . BRONNER . . . mate, wouldn't go back to sleep , 'The method employed to gener· turns alumnus. \Best :band since Hal Kemp\ .. _: with him . . . he toolt another ate an atmosphere that is 't1t2ly T . h 1 , , •h , .• d. t . BENNE'T'I': ... \Everybody seemed' room .•. Hy Elnzer's job in \Wind• he>tTible, is simplicity itself. r11e he! e ave f!>,een Cctses \- e1 e g1 a ua es, to hke t!H music enormously. I and the Rain\ was one of the bef>t at;~dience has a moml cer-taill-ty have felt very strong;h ao·ai nst the colleo·e's ~aven't heard one criticism. Drinlt- · acting •hits we've seen in the k-om the beginning e>f the pictum , • ' , \\ \\ , mg? Well,, less than usual. How- Mountebnn•lts in a long time . , . tiLat they know that Danny co;m- askmg- for rep<1,\'lllent of the loan. r.t seems ever, thet'e wasn't any last yeat'\ understand Mrs. Fox is pretty mad mit,ted the mmder· oi the wom~n that such as::;i::::tance was \coming· to\ these . · . the unique s~yle of music about tlle noor intprest among· the ;Laying nt the l:otel ,in whlclr he played by Mor·gan 1s understand- fraternities in the song contest w:as a bell boy. When he gets, a gTaduate::; for the ::;el'vices they may htlVe a~le when you realize that every ... she certainly has reas,on to he J<>-b taldng care of an old la.dy d d 1 11 . . l ptece he played was specially ar- provoked . , . ,incidentaUy, aftet· the \1!'1lose companion is Ros.ali nd ren ere t 'e CO eg-e Ill eXtl'a-CUI'l'IC't! a!' ac- ranged by him . , . BERNIECE: prom Dr, F<Jx asked a \few\ fac- R-ussel'!, the building event ~na\..o:es tivities. PARKS , . , l Morgan's singer), ulty co·uples lo join him in some- tbat cet iainly gruesomely stto.ng- er, , .. . . . ... \This Is the third prom we've: thing to eat at Hale House .. , for the conviction grows thai once 1he tuwnclal tmnsuct10n between Umon. played this year-and the best. FIFTEEN COUPLES RESPOND- again mul'der is not far off. Colleg'e ;md its students is not J.Hil·ely a business trans<1ction, cold and imp.e1·sonal. It is supposedly a cultural, and perhaps SJ>irit- ual, as well a::; financhtl investment. Yet money matlel's must Le considered as money matters, <tnd a loan that is COlltl'acted should l>e paid for-according- to law. EverybodY\ seems to be having such ED . . 1s the publications boai'd Night Must Fall is exceptional ltL a good time'\ .. , Ed Barry who wrangling , . , yeh man ... wonder ,JLs casting and method, :and w~ had charge of the music end of why Vi Fryet' refused to be an 'must mention the good joiJs don~ things con.tacted three trains from alouelle singer ... he also refused ,b:y the whole cast, but has the 6 till 9 o'clock prom night expect- another position ... aw 'ell this veaknesses of so many films made ing each time to meet Mor·gan and will go ort all night . . . IE,om plays, talkiness and o,ccasloOll- hls men ... no show up ... nine- n.llags in pace, but they do not ode- no band, , . nine fifteen-no band BYE NOW, lEact measurably from it as ente 1 ·- ... nine 'thirty-- no band ... nine UNCLE WILLY. ta.lnment. There is a.nother d il'ficulty in th€ college's attempting to collect fo1· past-due loans. 1t cannot PI'OSL'CUte for co::;ts and obtain repay- ment uy legal procedme, fm· such action would ue detl'ill1ental to the collt>g·e. The re· payment of loans depends almost entirely upon the cot1science of the bon·ower. Thet·efore, it seem::; proper for the com- mittee in charge of the student loan fund to \educate\ those stttlient::; \vho ;n·e now lHH'J'owing· college funds ~o that there will be soll1e justifiable expect~tlion or a return on tlw colleg·e's vei'.Y pe rson;1l imest ment. NgEDED: MOSES fort~five-no band ... Barry by this time had lost TEN POUNDS and was SOAKINK WET , .. at ten to ~en they at rived in a bus ... Morgan was hungry . , . he , sent a ta:><:lcab driver for two ham- burgers :and: EIGHT CUPS OF COl•'FBJE ... FOUR \WITH\ ... FOUR \W1'THOU1'\ ... MORGAN .. , \You know. I like this place. This is just the kind of town I'd lilte to settle down in\ ... BARRY . .... Ya haven't seen the town yet\ ... after- the dance the Ol'chestra \V<'nt directly back to New York ... the;r had to rehearse the g1 eater part of the day fol' their btoatlcast that night ... Morgan and his plano player accompanied by a couple Unionites went down to the Petit\' for Homething to eat and drink . . , liked Union a l<Jt . . . want to come up again wher1 they can see the campus and visit with the fellows . . . ATTENTION MIKE E:NZER ... chance for a bit of publicity there ... from the \\'e'l'e still waiting· l'ot· tile Student Onmcil drinking standpoint the dance was very co11.~ervative ... in fact we to do something con:struclive. As the only saw four really intoxicated organizntion which was going to I'€Orgnnize guys . . . each one distinguished himself in his own little way ... itself so thnt it would Le a repre::sentative, one followed Bill Bennett into active bodv. 'it has accomplished fl(}thinQ\ this Wittnet's office and handed him a - large bt>ttle with the words . . . yenr. The NSFA con fe1·ence report has \SUR MAY r HAV mrc> THE fizzled. The ]Jttblicit\' g_·iven the com!nitt.ee HONOR\ · · · Bill just grinned and . - , r·efused _ . . another went to sleep in clHtl'g'e of 1•eforming student g{)vernment in Ed F\itz's room downstairs ... his brothers became alarmed when hns g·cne te waste. About the 011ly thing they couldn't wake him ... they that ha])pened this ,rear was aboliti<Jn. First !ame scl'eaming to Fitz that they v thought he was dead ... an am- the Idol, thau Freshinan Tiules. monia 'l>ottle revived him however Of l '] f _, I ... another drunk ran the complete course t 1e COllTICl ha,::; per 01Tl1eu w 1at- distance of the gym hurdling the ever duties it has had, and credit must Of booths - .. and the othet' might have ruined the grand march if given fol' ils maldng a sincere attempt at it hadn't: been for PREXY'S WELL th . t t' B t th• f · PLACED STRAIGHT ARM which some mg cons rue lVe. . u no r:ng o lm sent the fellow baclc into line ... porbnce has I'PSUlterl fmm the &incere at- very. very good prexy ... and then t ll · • · h there w~s the highlight of the eve- E'h1]Jt. E'l'E' 1g a :-;ltuattl)\1 whic oLV'iously ning- ... a surprise broadcast from ne.eds COlTection. the gym over a national hook-up, Th , d C . 1 ... 0 I< ... £>h. wot? e Stu ent ounc1 has the authmization WE WONDER ... WHA'T some of the student body to sanction ne-w publica- of our f'ra.ternity brothers would do if we dHn't write this column ... tions, ne\v activities, student requests for WHY Webb doesn't smile more .. , changes. 'Empowered as it is, tlle council WHY Hoadley conceals his sense of hum<H' ... WHY they wt·ite the can make student govemment an actuality. Almuni Monthly in that awful This morning in dail.Y assembly a new style ... WHY Tidmat'sh -<and . we've \thought\ this before) council was voted into office. Whether it doesn't ,play \Rhapsody in Blue\ more ... WHY the administration will be a new council or just the dd council with new members depends upon student sentiment. And student sentiment, accord- ing- to the tax poll, is hy no means favorable to the council. The existence of student activities accord- ing te the ccnstitution, is in the hands of the Student Cot1ncil. Will anything be done to reform .such situations as prevail on The Idol? Can't the council do something to cur- tail the many wastes in the J'Unning · cf various activities'! Will the council ever become a reJH'esentative student body which aan C(}rrect such disturbing conditions as unfair competition in Y'Ushing? Will the council ever realize that it has the job of unifying the students of Union College? QUOTES and COMMENTS From New Hampshire comes the following prize: Mother's Day Plans Include Pageant, Campus Inspection -the New Hampshire. Tsk! Tsk: But boys will be boys! • * * We gave a few definitions awhile ago. l'fow we find that the Skid- tnore :News has supplied another: An ~lumnus-One who holds the president and faculty responsible for the success of the football team. * • • MANUFACTURE OF PAI'EB AND RAYON STUDIED BY LARGE GEOUP OF CHEMICALs . -Clarkson Integrator. What will science do next? (Continued on Page 4) D lJRING the January fi10().ds, Western Electric-Se!Vic.e Of Supply to the Bell System-once again set iD m-otion its machinery for :neeting disasters. From its three factories =tnd many distributing poLnt:s, it msh.ed telephone materials of every kind into the fl-oD'd stricken areas. Day and night, telephone men and women W()rked to maintain and r~st:ore communication. Dramatic as is this emergency Service Of Suppl:y, :it :is, really no more important: tlian Western Electric's eli'ery• day work. For 55 years, it l:Ias hacked up the Bell System; w-ith an endless flow of quality equipment. A maJor fa(!torin ,nuking your telephone so far reaching, so dependa:hl-el' Why not ~ji1J!e ;he ja1nily a l'ing to• night? Ra~es to most points are lowed! after 7 P. B'. and all day Sunda.y. \' .;;; n J TJ :( Ga ( \ Re l T seu: Ha• Ket the the met Mlc shiJ win Gat . i gel Co8 pail side H will rniJ, the sho . ' Gar win win Hu1 mer eve1 1' vau for Hir will ure tlUE to f und in to~ Ir and giv~ In t est for a lot do car1 jurn G sho' cus We' pee' in t up FI T mar cha fort Mm the be son, Mol !3 pia~ Leo hole Fr I T hop tom !ius p. I1 Ren vau Sat1 swa ligh Ga1• cid€ B whi pia~ Hut

thE t:ue.s ha...s as.a t• l~ btui!!.t r' b-y to ·an;, a l:f1•ed •1!1.0' 1- 1\.is Big Vliho good' the jn o J-e- T1te CO!ill· Olli~Il he a la...dy nd er, once !JL w~ done. thEO made -de- encet·- tiD int:s, :it :ia ste:llli . ' - ' TIIE GONOORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, 1\IAY 21, 1937 Page Three Track, Baseball, L.acrosse Teams Play Away This Weekend ~---- Track Team Will \ OppClse Haverford 1 Number 1 Netmo11 Varsity Stickmen Varsity Ball Team . Oppose Williams To Meet Rae hester ---------··------- . GAME PLANNED ltfTRAMU RALS Armngemenu, have been Gat·nefs OJ>ponents. Are Mid-· dle At111ntic States Cham- pions, Forces St!'Ong Last Varsity Game of Season Will Mark Finale fot· Most of Team Tomorrow's Away Game Is . completed for a twilight game between the Albany Senatot·s and the Gamt>t varsity which is to be played on. Alexander Field May 27. 'The Albany ball club will journey here in the late afternoon after they have finished their game with the Elmira team in Hawkins Sta- dium in Menands. The thir-d round of tltl· I:Jpl'in.g Tennis ut:..d Hm·sp,;hoe Tout·na- mPllts must bP l'Olllpleted tHl ot· bP- forc Wedn€oduy, May 2tith. Please play you!' rna tches at you1· t•m·!iest convenience. Do ·not forfPit o1· yuut· group will 'lo><t' many poinb. Con- te::~tanl:; nLu~ ... t .;uiangt• t'ht'H' own ma·tche:;. Close Match Expected J(etz Is Sure of Fil·st Places · In All ·Long· Events; and Seoronds in Otll.Hs The harde~t match of the track ' sea:;on wiH be fought tomon•ow at· Havet·ford, Pennsylvania when Bill ' h';etz's sta:rs will attempt to ring their twelfth straight viet ory from the group of the Haverford track- ' men who have .recently won the Mi.ddle Atlantic States cbampion- shlps and have thirteen straight wins to their credit. Although the Cm·net men are slightly .favored to get the v.ro rst end of the meet Coach Ketz feels certain of enougl~ points to put Union on t:he winning side of the ledger. He ·is very .confident that Hawk~.s will be in 'Winning form for the two mile wifh ·Wells close behind. ~n the mile event Annese and Denton should easily take the hon01s while Gammons and Annese tea.m up .to win the halL He is also .looking for wins in th.e quarter mile from Hughes, Fryet• and Shllgg. These men should cinch the long distance events. FRITZ HAWLEY N etmen to MaJle Last Trip of Year Squad Plays Middlebui'Y i'o- day and Vermont To~tum­ l'ow; Outlook Bud With but one victory to th..eir credit in a rather unsu~cessfull s-ea- son ·Of ra.in and defeats, the {i::arnet netmen will wind up thell· e:lro rts fo1• the year with a road t lit:• Chis w~elte,nd. They left this nto:mi ng; fell' Ml'ddlebmy where they pla;- their fit·st match this aftemoon a.nd The ja valin, discus and pole vault a:lso look certain victories for Union while Captain Sherm Hirst, Glen and Endicott or Bowie will put up hard scraps in .the hun- dred. If lhese p1·edict!ons come tl ue, they 1vill give enough points to approach victo1·y and the second and third places which we will talte in other event.s should be enough to win. then move on to Burting·ton tom>Or- In the 220 Hirst, Glen, Shugg row where they will pi:\y tbcil!' 'l!Jsl and I•'ryet• will again team l1P to· match against the Uniwt s!Ly of give a good account of themselves. In the hurdles, which are our weak- Vermont squad. est point, Day and Derrick will t·un Both of these oppcmcnts at-e te- for the Garnet. Captain Hir·st, ported to be very strong anLl tEhiLl.gs along with Doyle and Bloom will do the broadjump whlie Bloom look as if the Union tennis n1cm are carrys Union's hopes in the high in for a tough lime. Even if ·we jump. beat the Middlebury racquet I\Vie.ld- Gatchell and Kruesi will put the ets, w'l10 have had u vc1y i'lneo seu- shot and also take care of the dis- ·son., our chances against Ve 1 -,monl cus event. ln the pole vault Van Wel't, Porna.tti and Myel'S are ex- are still very slim as Vet·~ont te- pected to take winning points and c~ntly tz·immed Miudlebuty 6-:3. Ten Union seniors, Burd, Potts. Jacl' Smilh, ·Reynolds, MacMu1•1·ay, Fraser, V•mdecar, Barford, Ken- nedy, and Fenton, will have theil last chance to .play intercollegiate lacrosse tomorrow afternoon when the Ga·rnct stickrnen meet the Williams ten at Wllliamstown. The only 1 emain ing game on the Dutch- men's schedule after the contest with the Purple will be played on June 12 when the Union varsity tacltles an almuni team. Union, with four ·Victories, one tie, and one defeat on the J·ecord .Lhis past season, is favm·ed to beat the Mountaineers, if statistics mean anything. 'The Purple, men- tared by Coach Snively, has won tht·ee of its four contests. It has ·beaten two teams, Tufts and La- fayette, which the Garnet has also trounced, hut its margins of vic- tory have been more conservative. Men to be watched on the Wil- liams ten are Al Fiffet·ts and Meyersbet·g on .the attack, and Seay and Duncan who play de· fense. These stickwave1s have out- shone the otl~ers this season. Still judging f1·om the 1ecords, the tougher callbt·e of opposition Union has faced than the Putple malte a Garnet victory even more predict- D;ble. The 'Williams team will be good and Coach William J. Harkness is starting all of his best men. How- ever, proviued the score is well in our favor, Ir any of the seniors, who will he playin;; for the last time, will he :.iven a chance to get into the ga.lllC'. The stal tin~; line-up will consist uf Lllll u at !;• e1l, Lifi'iton at point, J. Coleman ,,t center point, V. Smith at fh·t defense, Reynolds at second defense, Fr-aser at cen- tet·, Vandecut· at second attack, Captain Jack Smith at first at- tack, Paul at the out-home posi- tion and Blue at the in-home posi- tion. Because of the nearness of Wil- liams and this is the last game there will be many substitutes making the trip. --·- --0-·- -- R. H. Rice-Beware in the javalin Van Wt>1·t· will team up with Bloom to give a victory. The following have not ,passed the rel[Uiled swimming test and ate urged to 1 eporl to the attendant at the pool at once, as this is the Again scholastic recOicll v;;ill ltbt week d'uring the cun·ent college keep Murphy ami Can fro3.1· malt- year, that the test can be taken. ing .the trip and Bernie Sa lnm Nill 1940 - ---0----- Fro~h G()]fers Play l\lanliuH The thus far successful fresh- man golfers will have a goou chance to display their best ef- forts tomot·row afternoon on the Municipal Links when they meet the Manlius divot diggers. 'This will be their second match of the sea- son, the first being a win over Mohawk School two weeks ago. Ben Lord and Herb Watson will play in the first foursome while Leo Minl!::in and Franlt Jl!Jelewicz hold the l11ird and fourth positions. Frosh La.cl'osse Players Hope to Defeat Manlius also r·emain at home this ti!lnC\ c3.ue G. N. Alper, H. Benjamin, G. to. outside worlt which lt\ m'l.lst R<rancles. J. J. Cary, M. Cimorelli, complete. This leaves the unml G. E. Conrad, J. l\11, Coulter, V. J. mernbel's to talte the two dey j atLnt. Dug-an, R. A. Eg·an, W. A. Fallon, Captain ·~~·ton will play .nu uber J. Fitzsimons, C. H. Guiles, E. W. three po.sthon, Hawley, num.bu Clone I Hannocl,, P. T. Hill, l\11. A. Hum- miLn,, Dwore, number two, ltull:Jbf:m, phrey, N. D. Light, R. Nevius, P. four, Ressler, five, and Stev<!'ns, six. Newberry, D. H. Pasco, W. Powers, In the doubles Hawley a.nd J. P. Shanley, C?· E. Smith, A. ~­ Dw()re will make up the flr:=;t ttea..m, Sweet, ~-. G. 'T1dbali, D. J. Wa1t, Ot:ton and Kessler will play- sect>nd R. J. W1ll!ams. p~sition and while the th: :·J p.air 1939 . . will be Rathbun and Stewm·l. J~:~ocl( K. A. 1\iirT,eod, G. F. PPrk~ns, W. Morrison and Don Baxter li\'!lll n.Jso F. Rehbet·g, S. C. Robbms, I. g(! along as substitutes. .Zweig. The team will rctut·n to tll!e ca.Jn- pus Sunday afternoon. 1938 G. E. OUR, It. L. Royal, J. A. Scully. 1937 n. H. Rice. Sixth of Seas()n; Hamilton Ga.me Is Wash.ed Out SatUJ·day aftemoon the Un.ion Cull'eg·e Varsity baseball team meets lhe Rochester University nine on the Ru~hestet· diamond. This is t'he sixth game of the sea- ~on fOI' the Dutchmen. Thus far they hav~ won tw() and lost four, winning· conteot.s fwn1 Middiebuty and Johns Hopltins 1vhile losing of Syracuse, Williams, and Ro- chester. This being the second meeting of these two teams, Union will be out to even the count. Rochester !·.as a vc1y st10ng team us was evident when they played on the Union diamond only a sh01t time ago. Last week they lost a close one to Syracuse, 9· to 8. Sy ra- cuse has won both of her games played thus far with the Dutch- men. There has bPen no pt·actice thus fat· this 'Week for the Garnet squad because of the condition of the dia- mond, except on Tlllusday and Friday when short practices wete held. Coach Waite1· J. Nelson will take his full squad with hin1. Either El- mer Johnson ot· \Vaters will toe the slab for Union Waters has split even in his two starts while Johnson has yet to stat t a game. Dave Yunich will be in his old position behind the plate. The rest of the line-up will re- main the same as in tlte prec.eding games. Co-captain E1nie Brown will ·be at first, Franlrle Myers at second. Dave Miiler at short, and Co-capta.in Harry Mana at the hot cot·ner. In the outer gardens will be Jake Amazon in left field, Bill Thomas .in center, and Claude Wiley in right. The game with Ha.rnilton which was to have been played the 19th wa.s cat.led on account of rain. The next game on the schedule is the one with the United States Military Academy. This will be played out of town. The next horne game will be on the 29th with R. P. I. ----- 0·--·-·- Foot ball Jlllanagf'r All freshmen candidates for rnan- ageJ·ial positionB on the varsity football team are requested to eon- tact Charles B. Honikel, Delta Up- silon House, 4-7922 or Professor J. Harold Wittner, Director of Ath- letics, 4-6005. CHAELES' (formerly Ed's) The <>fflcial Union OJllege bar- ber for the past 26 years. Ask any 11p:perclassmen, th.ey lmo0w. Four operators. Seltenectady's greatest bat·ber. C()r, STATE a.nd &'WAY KODARS RADIOS FOUNTAIN PENS Expe1-t Repal:rlng J. T. & D. B. lY'ON \Evetything Pb.otographlc\ 236 State St. Pbone: 4-864,7 The fr esllman Jacr ossc team hopes to con.tinue its winning ways tomorrow when it meets the Man- lius Schoo.! on Library field at 2:30 p. m. F1•esh from one victory over Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute va1 sity, the outlook is bl'ight. Last Saturday the Glens Fa!Js .Ac:ad.emy swamped :Manlius 17 to J and in the light of comparative scores, the Garnet fir'st year group holds a de- cided edge, E11gland will again play c enier with Fay at point and J> asse at cover point. Mayersohn will play out home with Palos holding t he il1 home ,position. F'ollowing the game with Jili:,.nliw; .-a Freshman tlimwr is vla 11ll·.ed at Hale House. GUERRA PHARMACY Bill Nugeont will sta1t at g.oal while .A!tem1.1s and Armstrong will play defeo11se men and Fink and Hutchins take attack positions. Next week thme \\ill be wractke ·sessions and :• matC>h with cJ!ens Falls. The season will be o ffl•cia.lly closed with R 1~ume on Mu;y 2:11; un Library Field against the M~n­ hasset High S~hool ftom Nn::nh.as- set, Long Island. The :MEtcnh:as:set tean1 is aoached by Ja.qon St 1arta• han who was an attack pbayer 011 Uil ion's National Chn.mplomshil> tearn in 1929. FRESHMAN BASEBALL TOTALS Name t:IJld Position G Bl'ockner, lb ............. 5 Tannet·, ss ............... 3 Grosso, If .............. , • 3 Feldman, cf . . . . . . . . . 5 Patrie, ss, rf ............. 5 Isabella, 2B .............• 2 Hanson, p 1 3b .............. ·5 Palmer, c ...............• 5 Robinson, rf, p ... , .. , .... 3 Biber, <Jb , ....... , ...... , • 2 Mould, p ............ , .... 2 Santoro, rf ....... , ....... 4 Schlanslter, rf . , . . . . 2 Maines, p .. , ....... ,, •... 3 Underwood, c . . . . . . .. . .. . 1 UN\IO!'r •........ ,, ....... 5 OPPONEJNT ...... , ...... 5 AR It 21 (} 12 2 13 2 20 7 21 4 (} 1 18 3 20 4 7 3 9 0 6 3 13 2 5 0 1 0 0 0 172 37 178 35 H PO 9 49 1 0 5 2 9 8 G 7. 1 e 4 7 7 35 4 2 0 4 3 0 1 £ 1 2 0 1 0 0 51 130 47 126 A 1 8 0 0 10 6 5 4 e 5 6 0 0 0 0 51 36 E AVEI', 8 ;b2D 4 :0183 1 ,3;85 1 4-fiO 4 .2::8fi 0 .LG7 4 .~22 8 .<:50 1 ,fjj71 4 .!JJOO 0 .liOO 0 JD/.7 1 ;2!00 0 .DOO 0 :000 26 20 600 Union St., cor. Barrett Phorae 2·94~~ CLOVERLAND CREAMERY FOR P:ROMPT SERVICE PHONE 2-4265 919 STA.TE ST. LOUIS WASSERMAN QUALITY MEAT MARKET 354 Broadway PINE GROVE DAIRY, Inc. 118 S. FERRY ST. SCHENECTAOY, N.Y. THE CAMPUS BARBER SHOP Basement of Silliman Hall A Special Service for Union Students ANTHONY 'F. BARBIERI HOURS: 1:30-7:00 P. M. This wiil be a special benefit game with the proceeds going to the Outing Club to pay for a plaque to be placed in 'Tuck- ermans Ravin!'. Ticlrets can be obtained f1 om officers of the Outing Club. Golf Team Loses To Hamilton Squad Garnet Golfel's Lose Last Match of Year at Moh.awk Club, Score :i to 4 The Union College golf team went down to a 5-4 tlefeat against the strong Hamilton squad at the Mohawk Golf Club Wednesday aft- emoon. This match ma1ked the t>.nd of the rather unsuccessful 1937 season during which the Garnet golfers dropped four of their five matches, the single win being in the retm n match against 1\lliddle- bm·y. Wednesday's match was a hard fought one played on watersoaked links and in bad weather. The hardest fought match of the day was between Maxwell and Zwa.h- ·lan which was carried to the 21st hole where Maxwell was beaten. Captain Monty Fmelich swamped his opponent 7 and 5 while he and Kelly won their best ball match 2-1. In the second foresome Ken Brown and Johnny Maxwell won their best bali 6-4 and in the third match Field and Wilson also won low ball 3--2. Summaries are: First match: Geer <Ul lost to Sabine <Hl 5-4; Fi·oelich ( Ul lost to Kelley <HJ 7-5; Union lost best ball match 2-1. Second match: Maxwell ( U) lost to Zwahlan <Hl 7-6; Brown <Ul de- feated Ansden <Hl 4-2; Union took best bali match 6-4. Third match: Field <UJ lost to Gilmore <H) 5-4; Wilson <U) de- feated Daw ( Hl 2-1; Union lost bl'st ball rnn.tch 3-2. AMERICAN Al LAUN'DRY The Most Perfect Laundry Work in the Cnpitol District Phone <1-3166 1080 Barrett St. CONNELLY BROTHERS DAIRY.Inc~ 1858 HAMBURG STREET PHONE 2·0910 Entries for· tltl' I.Ja>wbull tit-ld meet must :be in t.he inttllllll!l'al box nut later than Saturday, May 22mi. The events will bl'gin ptomptly at une p. m. D!!t Wol•dne,day, l\lay 26th. The pia=>·oft's of -the Snftl.mll Championships will be played on Library Field. ThPy will bL•gin Monday, ~iay 2·1 at 12:15 p. nt. The ehampionship will bP dPdul'd on u double ellrnina tion ba\is. That is, each team wi II have to bP l.lt'a lt•n twice beforoe i.t is eliminated f1·on1 the competi Hon, Below are the Btandings to date with one mote ~ume in each league whcih wlli be playetl tomon ow afternoon . NO>!'I'hc,·n l.<'UI!'tu' w Phi Gamma -Delta 7 Kappa Signna . . . f> Beta Theta Pi .......... ·1 Lambda Chi Alpha 4 Phi Sigma DC>lta 1 Io;:ast l'rn I,t>ague '\' Kappa Nu s Sigma Phi 4 Neutrals . . 4 Theta Delta. Chi . . 3 Alpha Phi Delta . . . . . . 0 So;uth~rn l.r-ague w Delta Phi . H Chi Psi ... 5 Phi Delta Tlwta 5 Psi Upsilon . . . . 2 Phi Sigma Kappa . . . 0 W*'!ltem Ll'agut' Delta Upsilon ... Alpha Delta. Phi Kappa Alph~ .. . South Coliege .. . Theta Nu E:psilon Blacl.: o .. w G $6.001 to $10.00 a !'air Serving Old Union 43 \'ears PATTON & HALL 2·11> State St. MILK SO RICH YOU CAN WHIP THE CREAM Prod ueed Under Strict Laboratmy Control For Daily Service PHONE 4-3121 General Ice Cream Corp. L 1 3 3 3 7 I. 0 3 4 4 8 L 1 2 H 7 L 1 3 3 6 6 ACME BARBER SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS A PLEASURE 509 UNION ST. NEAREST THE CAMPUS SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING COMPANY ENGRAVERS for THE CONCORDIENSIS 147 JAY STREET TELEPHONE 4·9002

Puge F0Ul' THE CONCORDIENSlS, FRIDAY, 1\IAY 21, 1937 Repayment Plan Of Loans Evolved CALENDAR Today Hy,pnotism Seen as Answer Progress of N. C. S. R. L. To Prayers of lVums·kulls GlloUp Here T6ld by Smith Steinmetz Amazed Faculty Members By Smoking Cigars In Meetings DeJ Afternoon and evening- Fac- ulty Woman's Club Audubon Exhibit, Hale House. 8.00 p. m. ·Biology Colloquin, Profe~sor Harold .A. Plough of thP Biology Department of Amher~t College, Biology Lab. E,tsy Payment System vised Facilitating· Collect- ing; Low interest Rate Tomm·1-ow 1-:d•tol's Nutt• The following is a JUllll ~tatement issued by Dean l 'hal lt>o .!<'. I<'. Garis, in charge of tlw stud<>nt loan fund, and Anthony deB. Hoadl~y. romp- t.ollel, l<'ga!dmg a new sys· \t'lll of 1 <>payment of student \oall:->. 10.00 u. m. Daily Assembly, SpPakt>r, D1. Go1don Silber. \Our Interest in Pl'esent Duy Italian Schola1ship,\ Memo- Ita! Chapel. ·Ofl p. m. International B•·~ad­ ca,;t, 01 gan Recital by D1. E. A. Ti<lmat sh, ~lemol iul Cha- pP! A study of ou1· ex.prrience in the C'ollt·<·lmg of ,;tud~nt loans at t :nion College ;;haws that in a number of cases thr recipient of I he loan dors not handle his end of tht• rE>lationship in a busmess- llk<' way aftei graduation. This h'\' ,,.,uJted m a tate of collec- t wns considetably bpluv. that of ,;onw other collegPs. and one of \\hich we can scarcPly be proud. Tlw1 ,. is, hoW<'V<H, considerable :-;atlsfaction m the fact that the t•ol!Pctions fur the last y£>ar ran f•fty per c-ent ahead of thos.- for th•• p1 cceding y.-at·. Present indi- <'ation>' alt' that this ypar's collec- llon' will bt• st1ll bPtt~1·. Other l'ollege;; have been faced wtth tin>< same problem of tlaining ~tutlt•n t bull uwe1,; to handh• tht• 1 e· paynu'nt of tht'ir studPnt loans on a bu,.;m.--~s-like basi>. Some of them h.t' t' 1 t'Ll u11eJ. thl'll undt_•t grad ua t p:; ttJ }Hty a nominal 1atP of interf'~t on t hell' loans w hilt• undN grad· uutt•s. and. an lll<'tPa~wt.i 1att> aftt•l ctmluutlUn. The Fmance C'ommit- l<'<' ul the BoaiLi of Tru,tN's of l 'nwn C'ullt>gt• hav<> c-oncluded that th\ would be a desilable plan to uwugtll ate in eonnection with our oiUdPnt loans. The plan p!opospd •~ to dtalg<' the undergraduate stu- dt·nt oUt' pP·t cPnt each year, o1 f1 \l'l ion t bet eof, on all loans ~•antl'd ufl•·• Jun•• 1937. A mini- mum l'harge of $2 UO per yeu1· will bP mad•• on loans amounting to It·,..~ than $200. F1 om the Vl'I y low intr1 l'st rule charged it can be H'adily seen that thl' additional income is not the purpmP of making a chat ge on tlw undPrg•aduatP loans Thts n<'w 't <'P has b.-en takC'n in th<> hopE' thnt 11 w11l result m a fmther im· ptovPnwnt m the rc-paym<>nt of l<>all' aftPr 11:1aduation. ThP mter- \\t on the undeq;taduate loans v.1ll l\' •·nl!Peted sometime during the sprond semester Bills will be sPnt out for intPlest due. but afte1 that !\'' i~od t hP responsibility fo1· pay- ment will bl' th1own entuPl)o' on t)•,. <t\II!Pnt A 'tudent',; interPst payna·nt 1 Peon! will be ear efully <'<>n u!Plt'd whPn grantin,; any ad- diltt'n·d lo:-tn...:: 0 Sunday 11:00 a. m. Sunday Service, P1 eacher, Dr. George Hugh i:lmyth of Hitchcock Memorial Church, Scarsdale, N. Y., Mt•morial Chapel. 1\londay !'lake-up Tt>sts 7:30 p.m.--Band Reheutsul, Tto· phy Room, Gym. 11:-15 p. m Broadcast over WGY, W2XAD, lntPrnational Relations Club. Tuesday 10.00 u. Ill Daily A~<Pmbly, Thc- Union Colle~e Rand, Memorial Chapf'l. Smyth Speaks Sunday D1·. Gemge Hugh Smyth, minister of the Hltchcu< k !.\lemollul Chut ~h of Scar~dale sinc<· 1913. will <peak on \Viston Translated Into Action' at the regula• Sunday morntng chapt>l services in the !.\1emotial Chapel at 11 o'clock. Rad1o station WG Y will also btuadcust tltt• sel'\'· ices. 'l'l'tlf'll: lllllt'll to R11ild .\1·u· 1-'ralf'rrlity lloust• \\'lwn fl frttPt'nJty want~ to !.u·ld a \''V.P rhaptPt\ how.;e, tht' dt t•,il-.; nf 1 nP·nng nHHH'V nt\1\1 i1t' ('nn..:l•h•r t>d ..:Pttnll~l~· ~\ unt· nf thP ho\'R nf n \ltt!lll l ~:11\, r·,tt\' hH•thPt'hnnrl \\ t<•tt tu ,~ l,q ... ~ ·('Jt~ \finanrial [t \. to ~d ~d\·irt• on 1·nw to t ,t, ., fuJ,d:--.. l hP ltt:Xl J.a• U Wilt' ''alllt' t\wl ltEl\EI \'E:fl YOt 'R I.!. 'l T E !<. co::--:CER:\I;:\;f; I!UL::-;1-: :>Tul' AD\'ISE Yot' I !A \'E HHE 1:\.IMI::DIA TE:I.Y :-\TllP ~E:-\T \\\I:;HES A nnn\'t•rl thP Mtanute v.. 11 t>Li h.wk i'HAl'KS :-\TOP \\'ILL T ,\ Kl<~ AD VIC~~ STOP HA \'b: Y t ll\ noT A 1\1 AT<'H '! QUOTES and COMMENTS .t·~~r~t·ntH{i fronH• pngP :!l lltt al!.:.UIIl.t.·nt tL1l -nwl<ltl!-=, cut._ ~Olll \\II Hi h.1.;, uf l\Ulll :-f>, hPt'll qutlt• thutuugttly JUo\.t>Il a lll)\th. Tlw truth of thP matt~•· i\ that <.,fllt~IUrl'~ dut·~~ nut .._,hot·t Pn thP '\ t•ath. but l<·n~thens il. as any non-stu.ukt>l v.hu has bt•t-n V'l.ittun ttl! <'L' f•·et of ,, ,uffet el f1 om HI rd· <'n~t· Mouth ean testlfy. As a Ieo.;ult of thts Jon~ bt·t•ath yuu may h!lVE' ttouhlP ('ontm~ thtough Ill tht• Amllt'r~t St u<IPnl. Charlotte:;ville, Va., l ACP)- How he has helped students to improve thPir gr·ades from 2 to 16 points by hypnotizing them was explained to the Vir- gima Academy of Science by Dr D. M. Al•lan, psychologist at Hampden-Sydney College. I did this, he said, by talking the student into a hypnotic state and then stating with em- phasis. 'As the 1 esult of this trance you1· powers of concent1ation will be greatly inct eased, your mmd will worlt better and you will not be nervou,; during ex- aminations. You w•ll have great ambition to be successful in your stud-ies and to improve your class records. Aftet ;;ubm1tt111g to the ex- P<'ttment, a numbt•r of failing, or near-failing, individuals climbPd f10m the ··D\ grade to the Jette!' above. Others cllmbed f10m \B\ to \A\, Two students jumped tht' entire scale ftom failute to the honor gtoup, an inc1rase of 16 points in their average grades. During the five yea1s he has been conducting the experi- m~nt, Dr. Allan has tr1ed 62 voluntPPl' subjects and im- proved thP marlts of all but five. who could not be hyp- notized Students who were put mto d10wsin<>s~ by the hypnotism show.--d the leaBt improvPmPnt in gr a LiPs. while those who Wt'l e put into a sleep m which thf'y were able to walk showPd the greatest imp•·ovPment. \\'ould 11 \wlp It> ~Ul >;It• With • * l.arnPnt 11f An lt.lt>ali!!t < m<'P I \\\' happy l\11t now I'm fOlhllll I found out todav I n .. ver '-'11>! bm n Aroma is half the pleasure of smoking The progress to date and the plan for next year for the Union College chapte1 of the National Civil Set·v- ice Refo1 m League were explained Tuesday in dally a~sembly by Jerome L. Smith '39, one of the two' st~:~dent organizers of the local· g1·oup. \Much work has been done in the shm t time we have had,\ Smith stated. \We realize that examina- tions a1 e approaching and that there are more important things on the students' minds. But we do feel that a good sound foundation has been created so that we may go ahead full speed next fall. The consummating desire to im- bue within the heart~ of student enginee1s the zeal to study and de- vel<>P a !teen app1ec.bti<m for the mtricacies of eledricity led the Jute Dr. Charles P. Steinmetz t~ acc~pt the tequest of Dr. Andrew Van Vtanlten Raymond, p1 esident of Un·ion College in 1902, to devote a p01 lion of his time to building a well-ot·ganized electt ical engineer- ing depat'tment at Union. D1. Steinmetz directed the work at Union for 10 years and changed it from a mediocre department into one of the best in the United States. Under his dil·ectorship, new equipment was added, the staff was inct eased and a new curriculum established. The General Electric Company, always willing to assist the college, quickly app10ved Stein- metz's action and gave employment \Last Februaty, President Fox spoke over a nat10nal rad1o haole- up from New York under the aus- pices of the National Civil Service RC'fo1m League. He cited the worth of the me1 it system and the step Union College has taken by estab- lishing inte1 nship in state govern- ment during the summer. \But most important is that out' of this has grown a movement to set up a network of college outlet c haptet s of the league at various leading colleges and universities throughout the country. Besides be- ing the mother of fraternities, we are happy to announce that Union College 1s also the mother of the college outlet chapters of the Na- ttonal Civil Set vice Reform league.\ He 1 efet'l'ed to the organization meetmg of the local g1 oup in the Old Chapel, Ap1·i! 27. to many of the graduates upon Dr. Steinmetz',; recommendaticms. It is interesting to note that Dr. Steinmetz, the foremost electrical engineer of the day, set ved t-he col- lege without remuneration and took a very active interest, not only in the engineermg departments, but als<> in the gene1 a! welfare of the institution, and attended the fac- ulty meetings regularly. His cigar smoking, about which so much has been written, continued in these mt•etings and he ts the only pe1son harmony with the Ja,nguage depart- ments. During his 10 years as head of the depat·tmen t, he lec- tmed eve1y day to the junior and .oenior engmeetlng students, and al- .hough not a strict disciplinarian, his genuine enthusiasm and pa- tience immediately gainell the ab- solute respect of all with whom he came In contact. The fact that he took an active interest in the •college when outside the classroom was shown when he became a member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity and personally as- sisted in the raising of funds for their Etew house. He often invited students to come to his laboratot·y on Wendell Ave- nue and was a welcomed speaker at the College Y. M. C. A. meetings. His great sense of humor made him ve1y popular among the stu· dents and he was often seen at- tending various undergraduate functions and joining in their revels. ln 1913 he asked to be t elieved of the duties of head of the depart· ment ant:! suggested the appoint- ment of Dr. E:. J. Bet·g, his close friend and associate. Dr. Berg Wad appointed and Dr. Steinmetz was pe1suaded to t·cmain as professor of electrophysics, a position he held until his death in 1923. \It is to pe1 petuate the memory The purpose of the loeal group, lle ,;atd, will be to acquaint ,;tudPnts with the idea of bettt>ring govern- mental conditions through the mer It system for the college :otu- dPnt. as well as to spealc bettet bPneflts fm thosP students directly inte1 esletl in Civil SPrvice. known to have smoked during a faculty sessLDn. His intt•rpst was in improving his d~pat tment and in helping \his boy,;\ as he refer1ed to his stn- dpnb, to 1 ealize the important wot k to be dan~ in the electrical field. He 1e31ized the significance of tht' classics and worlted in close of ~uch a man that the Chamber of Commerce has taken on a cam- paign to 1 atse $25,000 fot' Ute pUI· chase of his Wendell avenue homP. which the state has agreed to main- tain fOt·ever,\ Laurence G. Magne1·, president of the chamber explained. ed I n1~vf\r ~rPw up A11<l nP>\Pl' will dit• F'ot only ~()nu·luH.ly·~ 1<\f•a am I Th<' wo1 ;;\ of tt all Is to think of tht• cash I pa1d to J oP Bc-hne!<h•r 'fo .. tudy thts trash' Chesterfield's aroma is DIFFERENT ••• more pleasing •.. you like it better. Chesterfields will CaniRIUS nrlffln. .. . I .. hut an arrnw into thP air; It hit a man-1 ht>ard him s\\<•ar. Ut>fol'P I had a ehaJU'f\ to yPII; T!IP man eunw ba<'l1 and gavP mP tlw arrow. Roche,.tPr C'ampuH. .. AtHl fnnn ou1 uwn C'oncotdl. Man Superior to Animals Asserts Rev. Lynn Hough We suspected as much. That's because of the way we blend and balance Chesterfield's mild ripe home- grown tobaccos and aromatic Turkish tobaccos ••• and because the Chesterfield paper is PURE and burns without taste or odor • Copyright 19}7, LIGGBTI & M¥Jll\~ TOli4CCO Co. give you MORE PLEASURE 7 -4-lltl'., .. • sir l· v ] s gl P: T L• W< AI y, wl wi of sp of C8 of ru St' tiE of sh rit WI gc W• fil w• p~ to m Wt th th til of PE e~ !JI bt th su or m er fll m tt ::ll Sc at w tt sc sc tu 12 pE gc m of be Cl c s.

as lee- and al- pa- >tb- he he as- for Ave- at ings. stu- at- thei.r of part- close WUd was he Ill uf caul- put- :!.;;·;.:~!~ {.·· {{).··:·.; \ ' . ,_ Studen·r Body 'Meets Last Time ··- Vol. LX., No. 59 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, MAY 28, 1937 -·- -----,~--=-\-'=---~ lnterneships Continue For This Summer PRICE FIVE CENTS ------- ___________ , - --~~~~~~ --~---,~--7'-\--~~~===~===== Student Body Closes Year With Exercises This Morning Professor French Arranges Second Internes' Program Program Is Announced Cal·penter and Johnson Ter~race Counci·l Is Tapned For 2ud Freshman Camp Win Glee Club Elections · . · . · · • ·:.::, Among the new features of the Tuesday, May 25.-The annual. Freshman Camp program this year meeting and election of officers of is the ·opportunity for freshmen the Union College Glee Club was to take Entrance Examination.s at· held: tonight at Hale House. Ed- camp. Since there will be a large wa1·d M. Carpenter, '39, was chosen number of the faculty group at student leader, and Elmer John- camp, those men needing extra son, '38, manager. In Moving Up Day Cermony Schenectady, Albany, New York City Government Offices to Absorb Students Interested in Gaining Practical Kuo\vledge help in connection with the ex- Carpenter has had a vat·led ex- aminations may obtain tutoring be- peri-ence in music, having been a fort>hand, it was anounced in the me~bel' of the Glee Club, Choll·, bulletin which will be issued next Band, and Garnet Goblins since his week. ent1~nce here from Columbia Pre- Classes Final Get-Together, Seniors Now Alumni Othel' Classes Move Up; Alouette Songs Highlight of Program Plans are nearing completion for the second annual pro- gram of intemeships in government, it was announced by Dr. Patterson H. French, Associate Pl'ofessor of Government. Twelve Juniors and Seniors f1·on1. the course in State and Local Government have qua.lified to<!>--------------- The freshmen will leave Sche- paratory School at \Vashington, nectady Friday morning, Septem- D. c: He is affiliated with Beta ber 10, for Lake George. In addi- Thet.a. Pi fraternity and has been tion to the usual camp activities, a columnist of the Curcordiensis. swimming instruction will be given Besides this, at one time he played to beginners, and fteshmen may trmnpet in Hal Kemp's orchestra. pass the required college swim- Elmet· Johnson has been a mem- ming test, usually given in the gym ber of the Glee Club since his first pool. year, has served on the Junim One of the m()st colol'ful of Union's traditional ceremonies, l\Ioving-U p Day, was held this morning in Memorial Chapel as graduating .senior::; became Alumni, undel'classmen \moved up\ and seven new members were tapped for Terrace CounciL work in eight government offices in Al,bany, Schenectady, and New York City. Under the internship program, which was inaugurated a year ago with the coopetation of six units of the State government, students spend three weeks at the beginning of the summer vacation in practi- cal work in various government offices. The worlc ranges -from running errands to malting special studies, depending on the capabili- ties of the students and the needs of the offices. During the interne- ship period, the gtoup meets pe- riodically for discussions of the work and of the problems of date government which are involved. All Summet· Jobs Although tile regulat· period of work is three weeks, half of the fit st group of twelve internes worked for the enth·e summer and part of the nresent group expect to do likewise. The work is nor- mally done on a volunteer basis without pay, but four members of the first group wel'e retained by their respective offices on a full- time paid basi:; for the 1 emainder of the summer after the iqternship pet iod. One indication of the inter- e~t of the students i 11 thi:; kind of pt·uctkal study is that two mem- betti of the fit tit ~;:ruU!J continued their internship$ for the entire l:iUilUIH~f Ull a IlUil-Sii.al,Y bariiS and one member of the J!l'e~cnt gr·oup intends to do likewise. Organi:taliuns which are coop- erating in this pt ogram for the f11·st time this year '-ll e the Bank- ing and Civil Se1vic~ department:;, the Division of Parole, and the i:!c.henectady City Mauager's office. Students The students on this year·~ li~t are John W. Cebula ':38 of Altamont and Victor Cohen '38 of SchenPc- tady to worlt in the State Law De- J!I.l.ltment in Albany; Robert Galu- ten '37 of New Yorlt City and Rob- ert B. Shepard, Jr. '38 of Glt>n Ridge New Jersey to worl< in the State' Law DPnartmPnt in New Yorlt City· Robert C. Denzler '38 of Wilmingto'n, Delaware in (he Civil Service Department; George H. Witbeck '37 of East Greenbush i_n the Banking Department; Francts D. Sullivan '37 of Troy in the Re- gents' Educational Inquiry; Pre.s- ton T. Reed '38 of Schenectady m the Schenectady City Manager's of· fice and Bernard H. Salad '37 of Sch~nectady, Alfred R. Se!gle '38 of Brooklyn, and Edward Wtckert, Jr. '38 of Albany in offices yet to be chosen. -7\'-·0---- y ale Law Sch()larship Accepted by Ruszlwwsk~ Casimir J. Ruszkowski, '37, of Schenectady, has accepted a schol- arship to the Yale Law. School. where he was recently admitted. At the same time he was offere~ a scholarship to a second leadmg school, but chose the Yale. oppor- tunity, which is presented to only 120 men yearly, selected on a com- petitive basis. _ . . . Ruszkowski, who IS maJOrmg m government, was recently elected to membership in the Union chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, and is a mem- ber of the Honorary Social Studies Club. College Contributes $1400, Students Give $27 to Chest President Dixon Ryan Fox has announced the result of the recent campaign on the campus to collect money for the Com- munity Che.st. The college as a -whole,-the teaching, secretar- ial, and ground staffs, together with the students;-contributed ·over $1,400. The students gave a tot';l-1 of $27_to make this fine. showmg poss1ble. Cummins Resigns S. S. Chairmanship · ---·!> The singing of the Alouette song by John P. Delaney and John B. Many New Names Dowling, in which the hithetto lin- BI'Onner Named as Successor; Taug·h t History Since Graduation More opportunities will be al- Prom Committee, and has played lotted this season for informal dis- 'baseball every year. revealed foibles of the metn:bers of Ad ·ded to Counc 1 • 1 · the graduating class were brought to light was followed. by the actual moving- up of classes to theh· new The appointment of Professor L. J31onner as Chairman of the Social Studies Division was announced to- day by President Dixon Ryan Fox. He succeeds Professor Earl E. Cummin.s who resigned from his pos·ition as chairman this week. cussions by the freshmen with the Ja.mes Scott, '38, was elected as- faculty. sistant leader, while Rollin Twin- Afternoons will be devoted to ing, :39, Craig Miller, '39, and Jack athletics, while talks on various Mor1'ison, '39, were elected candl- Retiring Presid~11t Stresses Need (}f Stude11t Help In Final A.ddress phase.s of college will be given by date managers. --- students and members of the fac- Th t\ h ld · th e mee mg was e m e Robert D. Everest, retil·ing pres- ulty in the evenings. Professor form of a dinner at Hale House. ident of the Student. Council, today Johnson will give the first on Fri- Cat'! Marshall, the retil'ing man- announced the new ntembers of day night. Saturday morning Pro- age1·, Ed Moulton, retiring co- the council at the Moving Up Day fessor March will speak on \How lead-er, with Frank Gatchell and ceremonies that ended the year's to Study,\ and Professor E. S, C. Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh gave shott Assembly program. F'ollowing the Professor I>ronner, who was noti- Smith on \Schenectady and Its speeches, after which Marshall was announcement, Everest adminis- fied yesterday that he will receive Environment.\ That evening Pro- presented with a sweater. Then tered the formal- charge to the sev- his degree of doctor of philosophy fessor Bronner will discuss \Fra- the club moved to the student enteen men who malce up the from Harvard this June, is the ternities and Social Life of Union.\ lounge where the elections were council for the ensuing year. ranking member of the Social Stud-. Tuesday morning the campers held_ In his address, Eve test said, ies division in rank o-f service. He. will leave for Schenectady, in time· Following this, Dr. Tidmarsh \You have been selected by yout was graduated from Union In 1923. for registration on Wednesday, play-ed the organ in the chapel at classmates to represent. them on After teaching history here for a. September 15. the request of the club. the Union College Student Council. year, ht> attended the Harvard During the college y~r fl·om 1931 graduate school from which he re- through 1938 matters of student ceived his rnasteT's degree in 1925. Commentf'>ement Proor<IJ\m government will rest in yuur halld:; After three more years as instruc- ~ § ~ to a large degree. tor in history at Union, he returned \One of the greatest problems to Harvard In 1928 to complete his ThP program of the 142nd Com- 10:30 a. m. Alumni Procession, of the retiring counc:ll ha~ been r~sidence for his doctorate, rt>turn- mencernent exercises as announced stat·ting from Genet·al Engineer- student apathy. Sucn .._n attilud<. ing to Union In 1930 as assistant by the Graduate Council office to- ing Bldg. must not prevail, for nL atlmim:;· p!Ofe.~sot· of history. day will ex:tend ovet· a period of 10:30 a. m. Meeting of Board of tmtion, even in ,;ta<lent govem· four days, and will Include myriad Di.l'~t\tors President's Office. ment, can accum!Jli>~lt ~; 1 ~at things Laot y·ear i1e wa• ading-!ibtadan of the college in audition to hi:; teaching dutieo;. Profes,;ut· Brunne1 has ·serv~J. un many comm-ittees of the college and alumni organiza- tions. He Is a membet· of Phi Beta Kappa, Delta Upsilon, and the Hale Club. Dr. Cummins has been teaching at Union since 1927-28. He is a lead- ing authority on American labor pwblems an<.! has taught courses in the subject at several colleges. He has been teaching a special course in labor problem:; at the Bryn Mawt· Summer School. ---o,--- Dauton•s Bool'- Reviewed \Monatshefle fur Deutschen Un-. terricht,\ a monthly journal de- voted to the interests of teachers of German in the schools and col- leges of America, this month car- ries a five page article on Haus- mann's \Abel Mil Der Mundhar- monika\ E'ditPd by Professor George H. Danton, chairman of the depat tment of Modern Languages. activities, ranging from a Phi Beta ll:OOa. m. Review of alumni pro- without popu!a 1 · :;app<Ht. Kappa meeting to an Alumni ball cession by the PrcsidPnt. \Du1·ing the neJC.t cullege yea1 game. The program will open at RE>reption of Class of 1937 into you should be enabled to cumpiett 3:00 o'clock on Friday afternoon, Alumni Body. the study of ;;tudent govemment June 11, with the traditional Class Alumni vs. Varsity lacrosse game, st 1 ·ucture, and imJ!t·ove the sy~ten. Day Exercises in Jackson's Garden, ALexander Field. which is now in U8e here. Your and will be terminated on Monday, 12:00-1:00 Balloting for alumni organization has n:1an)· O!Jportuni- June 14, at which time Honorar}' trustNs in Old Chapel. ties to change and imptuve student Chancellor Bernard M. Baruch, 12:45 p. m. Alumni luncheon in life at Union College.'' LL.D. will deliver the Commence- gym. The senior member,;· of the coun- mPnt Address in Memorial Chapel. 3:00 p. m. Varsity vs. Alumni base- cil are Harold B. Ackennan, 01 ThP program as Issued is as fol- bali game, Alexander Field. Schenectady; Wintet tun U. Day. lows: 5:00-6:00 p. m. President's Recep- Phi Delta Theta, of Alplau~; Hy- Frlday, ,Jtme 11 tion at Hale House. man A. Enzer, Elizabeth, N. J., 3 00 p. m. Class Day Exercises in 7:30 p. m. Alumni Night. Band William H. I::Iawkes, P<3i Upsilon. Jackson's Gardens. ca.ncett, fireworks, and informal of Elmira; Frederick B. Hawley, 4:00 p. m. --Phi Beta Kappa meet-· dance in gymnasium. Chi Psi, of Bridgepor-t, Conn.; Jo- ing, Room 2, Washburn Hall. Stinday, June 13 seph Paul, of Baltimore, Md.; J. 4:00-7:00 p. m. Fraternity teas and 10:00 a. m. Baccalaureate Address Vincent Smith, Phi D\'lta Theta, ol alumni dinners. , by- President Fox: in Memorial Schenectady; and H. Lawrenc£. 8.:00 p. m.-Meeting of Board of Cbapel. Achilles, Sigma Phi, of Scheneo- Trustees, at the office uf the' 4 :00 p. m.--Grand organ recital, in- tady, ex-officio as C!hailrnaJ! of tht. President. eluding many choruses, under di- Tax Committee. 8.00 p. m. Goodrich-Duane extern-· 1edion of Dr·. Titlmarsh. The Junior membero are: JacoL poraneous prize debate in Old Monday, June a Amazon, Phi Sigmo. Delta, of Sche· Chapel. 10:00 a. m. Commencement Exer- nectady; Tyler E. Dennett, Alpha Sltturday, JWie 12 cises in Memorill,l Chapel. Delta Phi, of WilllairuStown, Mass ; 10:00 a. m. -Meeting of the Board: Hono1ary Chancellor's addre~s by David B. Miller, Psi lJpsilon, ui of Governors, President's Office.· Bernard M. Baruch, LL.D. \Continued on I'a~e i) Union Gets Sheep to Mow Spring Prank in 1903 Was Beginning College Pasture Grass OfColorfulMoving Up Day Tradition Deer Visitor iu Campus Safely Eludes Pursuers Union College had an unex- pected visitor on the campus Sunday, one seeking sanctuary from the cruel wo1ld beyond our sheltering walls. Veal, veal, veal, things have come to a pretty pasture, and it begins to loolt as though \Ewe Can't Pull the Wool Over My Eyes.\ If you're wonder- ing mutton hell this is all about, we'll tell you. That structure down In the pasture that you thought to be a child'll play yard is nothing of the sort, and in fact It Is going to be used to shelter sheep,- about eight of them if present plans are successful. The idea, ·first conceived by Mr. Hoadley, has a dual pur- pose: Primarily, it is expected that the eight sheep grazing in the pasture will enhance the wholesome qualities of the campus, and also that the sheep will keep the gra.ss cut. Sheep were chosen .because they were more picturesque than cows, and were less elegantly aro- matic than goats. Mr. Male is now negotiating for the pur- chase of the animals. Mr. Hoadley vigorously de- nied the 1·11mors that Union wa.s going to grow her own diplomas. \Baa he said, \that's jwt a lot of shee:p taUt.\ ~----- --~---- When a small group of very time the faculty found itself on the rowdy students back in the spring spot. It could not allow such dis- of 1903 started a general exodus respect for authority to run ram- fl'om classes and a parade about pant and it couldn't very well sus- the town, they little dreamed that pend the entire college, so it took they were the progenitors of a· the most practical means in sight ceremony that was later to develop of saving its face gracefully and into one of Union's most treasured forll:lB.lized the ceremony into the traditions, that which is known to MoV\Ing Up Day exercises. the present generation of students. The following year the ceremony as Moving Up Day. was performed much as It is Guy Griswold 03, was the leader lmo\Wn today. There was the sing- of that small group, and as they ing of -the Alouette songs by the paraded about the campus their seni-<>rs, and the moving up of the numbers increased as they called diffErent classes to the place of their forces from the different the class ahead, followed by the classrooms. They called out to burning of the freshman hats in their friends to join them in the front of the Idol. It was In 1912 fun until presently the entire stu- that the act of \tapping\ the Ter- dent body was prancing and sing- race C<>uncil was introduced into ing and everyone was quite happy the ceremony. The council had except the professors whose class- been organi2ed in '06 by the class rooms had been deserted. of that year as an honorary sen- Of course the faculty was highly ior society, but had fallen into de- incensed and many threats of se- cay after their graduation. How- vere disciplinary measures were ever, in 1!l11 it w8S reorganized made, but no action was talwn. und,er the d.irection of Dr. Charles· The memory of the occasion was N. Waldron, one of the members so lively that the following spring of the class of '06, and the color- another group of students organ- ful \tapping\ of the juniors by the . ized a slmllai• walkout to the gt·eat outgoing council, was incorporated delight of all :participating. This ln th~ Moving Up Day exercises. Hotly pursued by students and policemen, a year-old deer led its stalkers a rneny chase over the campus Sunday morn- ing. Where it had come from and where it w~nt remains cloaked in myste1y. The animal was first seen when it leaped a f~nce in the parking space In the rear of the Kappa Sigma House, land· ing the roof of one of the cars parked there. Bruised and bleeding, it slid to the ground and cta.1·ted away. The d'eer zig- zagged its way to th-€ campus and was next sighted .in the hollow between the Chi Psi Lodge and the Psi Upsilon House, running toward Mrs. Perkins' garden beside Hale House. It cleared t:lle wall into the garden and tllen jumped out again, heading for Presi- dent Fox's lawn where it stopped at the :po~l to drinl<. Aftei·wards it bounded toward the college pasiure eluding pursuers. positions in Memorial Chapel. Fol- lowing this Norman R. Stewart awarded Life Passes to managers, and captains of athletic tea:ros. Next came the \tapping\ for the Terrace Council, when the new members of the honorary council ·were named by the retiring group. Those who were chosen fot· the honor include Winterton U. Day, who Wa£ tapped by President Elver- est, Hyman A. Enzer by Frank B. Gatchell, Frederick B. Hawley, tap- ped by Richard C. Snyder, William H. Hawkes by Ernest C. Brown, J. Vincent Smith by William K. Potts, Joseph Paul ·by John F. Smith, and Carl R. Trahman 'by Norman R. Stewart. Potts Chargrs Following the tap.ping, William K. Potts delivered the cllarge to th~ new members, in which he sai<.l; \The Tel'l'ace Council this year voted to follow the .precedent of the last few years and continue as a purely honorary organization. However, in tht> eatly winter it be- gun to organize functions uf a .:o- ~ial· natute, anc.l believes that a sat- idactot y und Utiel ul niche has at 'ast ·been fuund for· the council. Union has lung been d.cfictent in :>ocial affair,; run fur the benefit uf lhe <:nth e college. The pte~lige of . he Ten ace Council is sufficient that it may hanc.lle ull·college Jances an<.! conce1 ts succe8:>fully, .vhPie uthers mi~:ht fail. The small ,ize of the Council malic:; for a :;lrung arganizatlon. Day, a 1 esi<.lent of Alplauti, b a .nember of Phi Delta Theta, the Student Council, was vice-president >f the Juniot· Class, and a member Jf the Junior Prom Committee. He has been active in athletics, having run varsity t1ack and played fr?.sh- man football. He ilao; o>ung with .. ,e Glee Club and Choir. );ditor of Cono:>ordy Enzer is from Elizabeth, N. J, 1.nd is editor-in-chief of the Cun- 20rdicn>Jis, He was a r.nember of Junior Prom Committee, has pla~·ed c1·eshman bast>ball, !l,nd has )Jeen tcti\'e in the Mountebanks. He is t m~mber of the Gavel Club and Hale Club. He is a member of the News Bureau staff. Hawkes, a resident of Elmira, is 3. member of Psi Upsilon, has run on the track team and is c:aptain of the cross country team. He play- ed freshman basketball, was photo- graphic editor of the Garnet and is a member of the Gavel Club. Hawley is from Bridgeport, Conn. He has been a member of the Stu- dent Counci-l for three years and was a member of the Junior· Prom Committee. The champion tennis player of the college, he has been on the varsity team for th1·ee years and is the captain of -the hockey team. He was an associate editor of the Garnet, sings with the Glee Club and the Choir and i9 a mem- ber of the German Club. Paul comes fl'Om Baltimore, Md. and has played freshman and var- sity hockey as well as freshman and varsity lacrosse. He was re- cently elected to the Eta Kappa Nu society, Smith, of Schenectady, !e a mem- ber of Phi Delta Theta, the Student Council, and was an associate edi- tor of the Garnet. An outstanding athlete, he has played varsity bas- ketball and varsity lacrosse. Trahrrian, a resident of Bloom- field, N. J., is President of Kappa Sigma, a member of the French Club and is one of the Mounte- bank's outstanding character act- ors. He is sports editor of the Con- . cordiensis.

I I , .I I ')i THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRlDAY, MAY 28, 1937 Pag•e Two not a definite need, for student govermnent, ~~· ~ in the trouble with the ex-~ditm·. ;; ~ • • 1 : we apologize again. . OU(ll .· ·t· rn·. s· .t· s· ' something ought to be done about it by the .1C P. t. ttl p 11·' ~ i.. •. Continually throughout the year . : .· · . • · student governing body. A little bit of di- '}.1.:.. \ ~ ; we have defended the Student i • Council. We're sorry; that body --------------------\\~ rection from the student council, a little !:!;;;;=============::;;;;=============;!!· should·n't be defended. We realize more enthusiastn in formul~ttin 0 o' progt·an1S. 'that as a .governing body it is \A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ FOUNDED 1877 No Showing• .F. H. ' quite useless. However, cit·curn- for public presentation, a little lnot·e encour- To tile stupe who has been Four years ago a twitchy lit- :s~a:nces wet·e such that we couldn~t aging l'esponse from the students in general writing about the cinema all tie boy wit·h taffy hair and criticize. year, and who rejoices in the glasses presented himself •at ·L-astly, we have,del\bel'ately ltept -that's what we charge the council with lovely name of John B. the Administration Building :out •of this ,column, and the news and the students it professes to represent.. (Stinlter> Dowling, \So Lcmg:\ fur ent1'ance. His ·chi'ef virtues .. columns in general, happenings As a Mountebank he is an were the use of words twice .as ·which, if printed, would prove in- outstanding actor-as a cinema large as himself, an uncon- · • jurious to the political ambitions of !<)J6 Member I'H7 1=\ssocidted CoUe6iate Press commentator he is stHI a trollable voice and as vicious a fellows close to us. This is espe- fairly good act 8 r. His perfor- tongue as ·ever came down the · cially true of certain prominent marrce ·as \Mio\ in the Mounte- river. H is l'Umot·ed that he fraternity brothers. One of them Distributors of Cdlle5iate Di5est REPRESENTE.O PO~ NA.\TIONAL. ADVERTISIN!l BY National Advertising Service, Inc. BLOW, GABRIEL, BLOW Despite a few disc01·dant notes, undoullt- edly caused by over-enthusiasm, the college band gave one of the Lest performances of the year Tuesday moming in daily Hssembly. The results of the student ta .. x poll may have been the inspiration for the spirited playing of the band, or it may have been the unex- pected anangement of college songs and martial pieces. At any rate the concert \Vas banlts production of \Winter- was almost J:efused because he has led a dou'ble existence. The hid- set\ is the best amateur job insisted on ca!J:ing the Presi- ' den .side would fill this column for we haNe ever seen, though you dent \Your Tran!SpaJency\ and : weeks. 'iNe't•e sony. We have not College PJil>llshers Represe_ntatlrJe 420 MADISOf'l AVE. NEW YoRK. N. Y, cuuldn~t bribe us to say so. As loudly ·referred to Mr, Hoadley : been the true \.colunmi~t.\ We have an actor he is considerate. He as \a bursar with hanker's an1- not told all. CHICAGO BoSTON • G~N FRANCISCO LOG ANGELES •PORTLAND • SEATTLE T'ut• d{fidal u.~, .. ~JKIPt'l' uf thl• ~tudt>ttts of l'uiou l',dlL•g.._•,, jtutJii~hetl rrue~day UJH.l lo~rldHY,:o; lhrough~ uut. tm t·olh·g-t .. ye~l'l'. l\'Xl't>pt durmg l'hll~llllU~ and ~llril!~--~:--::~~·_c_· _____________ _ Pub.i.'ati{ln lHrle•·. T'he Unzette l 1 rt'~~. :!3-1 ~tatt' :::4t.. ~khL'Ilt>i'lWl:y, ~. \\. rrde[)hune 4--1141 --J-·:utt·rt·tl .at tlH:' ~kht•I\PI'.tady Pn~l llfftl't' a:-> ~t·1.1111tl L'la:.;.~ :\latl .:\latter ~~tU!\>tTit'tiou Jll ht• I•'ivt- ct~llt~ a l'lll>Y; $3.00 a ~t>al': Ut>lin-·n:·tl any\\o'here Ill tht> I_Tuited :3tatt'~. l·!tlitorial Uuum~. Silliman Hall. l' tt11 .. n l'olll·gt\ l'alll{llb. 'l'elel..)hOIW. :_-;t..'ht'llt'l'tt_lllY, -1-LJ1:33. ------- Senior Boal'd Hyman A. Enzer .•... , .......... Editor-in-Chief 1 l S 8. South Colh•ge-G·~72b Robert H. Ferguson .......... Managing Editor l':-.1 Up:::iilun Hou~..:--1~~710 Julius J. Bundgus ................ News Editor ~ :...;, 8. ~ou th (._ \vllvgt· ti·~~7~X Hemy D. Hat.tman ........... , . Feature Editor 30 Union Av~uue-·t-~lit.i~l Cal'l R. Trahman ............... , .Sports Editor l\a JlJlU ~JgliJU Hou~t··--l-~325 John H. Gilmour ............. Business Manager llell<t U JlHilOll Huu::-.t.·· -4-7!.12:! Matvin M. Miller .. Associate Business Manager Ku.ppa ;c.;u-4-7331 Alfred R. Seigle ......... Circulation Manager Kappa. Nu-4-7331 Junior Board ASSO{'\A 'J'b: Elll'l'UHH Herhl:\'rt t ). I•'ux H.oLt:>rt A. ~a at Ftt_~dPrh·k \V. l!equemLuurg ..lt>rome _~nuth 11. \\'\own Hnd.wodc Etl\\arll L'. Hetartyk !Javtd. H. ~llil\r Huu<·rl <'. \\'altel, Jr. Rophomore Board A:> ::liH1'A:-:'1' I•: PIT• IHH C. nu~~toll llt'\U,.. l~hri~tuphet' ~I. Fal!y. HUllt'lt L. t.illmurt--, \rtlli:UII ( t <lonnlL~y •• \lLPrt fl. Halavin. H1clmttl S HarrisOil, t.l!!ol'l:!;t-' L. Pt'd~ .• l..a\\J't:>lll't\ Y. l'l:'lh~tllt>l' .lr, Tf'hutna~ II. ltal~tvu, To\\IJ:-;.t'Iltl .1. ~{tft'llbi~0·._~,!~H- -~~t~Jdlr>~ ~1. lialt' H(~frn_a~~· ___ _ :Rosiness Stall' ~lax Ll'll, Stardy· I ... it>lliiHUI, lluu~la~ !.\luq•hY. t: ... otgP Ha1Jll1. ~nl_l~~_!.rumbull. -~·alt\'I~ i''a1lt!_I! _______ _ Circulation Staff Alan \\'I ana. :-\1 :lllh·y tiertt., \\ illtalfl S• !J:tlil, John t'ulL:-,·, H.ulwt t -1·:.-l~l!t'r, Leo Kutn·d<i·. Issue Editot·s Christopher Fuh y Geol'ge Peck never tries to steal a scene, he bitions.\ backs the action up when not It soon became ala·rmingl¥ speaking and will ad lib until apparent that he meant to the last corpse is carried out. catve a name for hi·mself not Offstage he is not J•emar'k- in the usual marble blocl<, .but ably good looking. A red nose, in the various denieres of a nobby face and straight hak, those learned men, the faculty. a lanky build, and a jerlty Meanwhile he rai~ec.l meny •hell walk combined with Astatre- with them in his classes by fre- tihe gestures, mal.:e him look quently knowing IDOt'e than like a burlesque comedian on the p.oor p1of. He has never hi~ day off. done poorly in acauemic wodt, To get back to a painful sub- except in mathematics, which, ject-his column. It is all done we are Pl'OUd to say, he with a mechanical, \workman- flunked flatly. like\ style, \competency\ writ He has ·columnized, Idolized, latge across it. To the actor, and acted. The greatest or \Hail!\ to the columnist these sins have been his c·ol- \He\1.\ umns. He has insulted every- ve1·y stimulating. P. For an organization that has been kept going through twenty-five yems without assistance from R. 0. T, C. compulsol'Y train- ing or without the coeTcion of music ct·edits, the Union College band is an example of per- severing effort. And the effort has been principu:lly that of Charles T. l\lale. Although the band has not yet hit the .·,·.~ CINEMA ~···. road to secure populal'ity, concerts of the type which was given Tuesday seems to I.Je By JOHN B. DOWLING the best way to win favor. l\lol'e college ~========\'==~ thing and everybody on the campus worth insulting, and many not worthy. He has .been the worm who .has fed on the faculty's damask cheek wi\ol1 such vigor. Four years ·have changed him little. He still has the venom, the uncon- trollable voice, plus a lot .of facts, a July-sunset complexion and the academic mind. songs, colorful anangements, and lots of umpfh are wanted. Give it to us. The exigencies of getting this issuo out on Friday morning and the hoped-for graduation of this JUST IN JEST I'. column's author (by himself, and others not ~o cha 1 itable who, I'm \The curfew tolls the knell of part- ing day, afr·aiu, covet this position for Mr. \'The columnist homeward plods Fabian's comtesy in the matter of his weary way:• Although Eliphalet Nut.t paid $1,300 oi passes·! malte the reviewing of any. May this serve as your Uncle ·' U · C 11 1 curTent picture impossible as well Witly's swan song. He is finished•; goou mon o ege money in 18-1\ fot• a set and most of you are glad. UNEARTHING AUDUBON f • . . I . t f' ., A, • B' d , d a~ ;;econdary to some thoughts that Sooo, today we wi\l\ have no .gos- 0 ortg-ma prm s o n..mencan 1r s all· have 'been com·sing through the sip, no belittling remarks, no cri- a set of plates of quadrupeds by the famous: columnar head. ticism, just 1·egrets-for certain John J. AdLidU 1 '0ll, there h>L~ bee11 a C'll'l''-'t1t I don 't d t things that have happened. u • u c '- pteten to any grea pro- In an attempt to amuse the ma- l'UlUOl' that Union Colleg·e has but recently fundit)', but in the some lwo and a jority, we have sometimes hu•t in- unearthed from its tr'!ditionall ,, dusty third half years during which I have dividuals. For th1s we't e sony. \ seen on an average of six films a Striving for attention, 've 've . · floor the rare and valuable collection \)ought often rendered that which was weelt, the cinema has undergone slightly indelicate. We're sorry. almost 100 years ago. definite changes which seem wor- Though we have hied very hard I<'uls€ as the rumor· mny be, even though thy of note. to judge unbiasedly, we have oftm '' Most noticeable to the general been influenced by pet·sonal and I he Cuncordiensis started it, the fact in it- public ate the technical auvances political motives. Ou1 regrets again .. If , · f d · · · · Certain lads have been eonsist- se gtves cause ut' \\TOll ermg if everyt.htng such as Technicolor and improved entty ridden throughout the year. Yours, UNCLE WILLY. Oear AhJmn.u§: Keep in constant touch witl1 your Alma Mater. Learn the latest news concerning your frater- nity brothers and stu- dent friends. Know the la-l:est campus gossip. Subscribe NOW to THE CONCORDIENSIS and have your name on the mailing list next fall, ! Subscription Price: $2,00 for 60 Issues 1 Address Communications to AI Seigle, Circulation Manager of Concordiensis As·>istants R. Deyo R. Gilmore A. llalavin J. Smith L. Pellettiet' J. Sleidle connected with the Union College lil.nary ~ound. Color has been consistently They tool< it swell. 'To them we improved, first in out<.loot· photog- offer our apolog·ies. hasn't lJeen \unearthed from the dust\ third l'Rphy where it has a natural au- , vantage in scope and color, and ~F~o~l~' ~o~u~l-' ~d~is~p~l~a-:_y_o~f__'t~e~m~J~)e':\t~a'::m~e~n~t~~~~~~~~~~:::=~=~=~· floor.\ It was almost a hwbit to believe that lately in interior work. A star Is - Friday, May 28, 1987 anything rare which wa::; brought to light Horn was carried by the strength uf its stUJy and not by the n.ere must have been just discovered. wonder of the tints. Color has The Union Co1Jeo·e 0 lil:wary, however, has talten its place as a component of a film, not as its feature, just as With this issue The Concordiensis sus- pends puiJlicalion until Saturday, June 12. gained populat' inter·est this yem·. It has sound ha.s. I.Jeen r·efurnished excellently, it has been en- The more intangible changes I aro manifold. The Legion of De- urged for reading and study, it has taken cency made its drive and led the 011 a new life, and it has a good fellow fOJ pt·oducers into the fertile fields of 1ite1·ature where they garnered WE CHARGE .. To you men who have donned the sancti- monious robes of the student council and who feel the weight of future responsibilities already pressing upon you we entrust the cares and woes of the student government- such as it may be. libmrian who is giving the \round building' David Coppet·Held and other direct added prestige. translations trom books and plays. rhis emphasis on the d1·amatic That the Audubon prints have rarely been 1athet' than the suggestive and sen- ! \b' sational has had a welcome influ- ex ll Lted before may be the reason for be· ence. story and characterization lieving such articles were \recently unearth- nave been ted to greater and greater realism both •by the dlrec-. Pd,\ Hut we should like to clear the college tors and the writers. library staffs, past and present, of any .slur' The director himself has as- sumed a. place of importance with· \We know tha.t with hearts and minds filled only with thoughts of ~erving rour fel- low students and your athletic teams you will go l'ight on doing the best that lies ·within your ll.uman powers. Then, with eyes turned forw;trd and bodies stripped for ac- tion, move on to greater college achieve- ments.\ Ever since student government was trans- formed into the present fiasco, seniors, jun- iors and soph.omores have been charged with similar grandiose encouragements for future years. There was a time in the very recent past when the Tenace Council was denuded of its administrative powers and the Student Council was made a l'eal governing body which actually functioned. But time and tide have waited l'or few men ~nd the college student body has been bettered very little lJy its student administrators. It is true that the stud.ent leaders are the real controlling forces in student gcwern- ment, but Robert Everest spoke very impor- tant words to the new council this morning when he said it must ovel'come student apathy. There is sufficient teason to believe that such a[>athy has been the result of in- competent leadership. On the other hand, Union College students have been notor- iously phlegmatic. But since Union has a definiw place, if whicll such faulty reasoning may have the stars in the public eye. He has . developed the warm, human film of the present. caused. And At Other Colleges HUNTER COLLEGE students nameu President Roosevelt as the greatest living man, and Mrs. Wallh Warfield as the greatest living woman in a recent poll. Others named were Albert Einstein and thL Duke of Windsor among the men, and Mrs. Roose· velt among the women. * * * R. P. I., recognizing the usual spealdng ability of engineers, has set up a trial court where tutm·e eng. necrs will learn to ~peale Among the audience aH ribbing ~pectators and bored 1istene1e who squin. and yawn. If the engineers can speak well unde. these adverse conditions, it is reasoned that nothing can phase them. * WILLIAMS COLLEGE has eliminated the Fresh man English exam. Instead of this the marks will bt based on exam papers handed in from other cou1scs ,, 50 colleges will send rept PsentulivN; to ST. LAWR ENCE UNIVERSITY this NovembPI' to talte part in the conference on World Affairs. • Physicists at PRINCETON UNIVERSITY havt attained the tong sought goat of the trnnsmutatior. of elements. By means of a new cycltron, they hav• changed the chlorine in salt to potassium and finally to argon. * Thirty-four Britons will study in American col· leges next year thwugh the Commonwealth I<'und. They will include students and government officials' and will stUdy at HARVARD, YALE, N. Y. U., and STANFORD. • * COLBY COLLEGE plans an exhibition of the works of Thomas Hardy on the ninety-seventh anni- versary of his birth. Copies of all his works and originals of many of them will be on display. Great films have appeared. Those that remain in the mmd are lt Happened One Night, The Thin .dan, ·l'lle Informer, l\'Iutiny On The ~omtty and The Lite of Louis Pas- teur. There have been others, but chese set the pace. The public itself has changed I feel. Per·haps it is more accurate to say that it has been educated. rhe prove! bial twelve yea.r old ,eve! of the cinema has been t·aised. Far be it from this column ,o say how high, but the advance ~~ definitely noticeable. Mature themes and high comedy have found their places along with low ~omedy and melodrama which, God . grant, the producers will never lose sight of. .And with the change of attitude on the public's part, the studios have fc.und it necessary to abandon the old ballyhoo publicity. Re- straint an.d actual fact are now at a pl'emium. The more serious pe- ciodicals are inclined to treat the Jinema with respect. Class B pictures and the doufble ieature are still vvlth us, but Bank Night has disappeared in many lo- calities. The future holds bri~ght promise for the alert producer, the man with courage and taste ·Of whom the late Irving 'Tha.lberg and Sam- uel Goldwyn are good examples. There are changes on the hori'zon; three dirnensiona:l pictures and sound with the threat of television behind them. The column has no predictions to make, only hopes that the advance continues. WHOOPS, VACATION££RSg. Let staunch, dependable Railway, Express ship your baggage, bundles and boxes straight home. Jop speed. Low cost. Real economy. Pick- up and delivery without extro charge-in all cities and principdl towns-and send collect if you want to. Just phone the nearest Rail- way Expr.ess office when to call. ·Easy as that, a11d believe us, you'll relax contentedly in your Pullman. Cor. Wall & Liberty Sh. Depot Office: N. Y. C. Station 'Phone 4-5612 Phone 4-8512 SCHENECTADY, N. Y. XPRESS ~----•NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE------- l r I I .• ~ l', 1 I l\ f. Tu. in Cit; We bas to its 'I R. da~ ser act cell the tea 'I nin bo~ tht• def wir end wit five VI for the mai ffitl T hav Coli flin and flin a o por bae day I A bas• wile cou· feni ers occ:: Arrr in i· fin, win ing way H mE>e in t dets u Th•• Am! Bro• Wyl Millo Mye Mat· Yun Wat x-B~ Tc x.: AI Durl Kas1 Weil Lah1 Dab: Rut! Ginc Steg Cur1 NotE Grif Har Hin• LOlli xx-F. Tc XX Sc Unio Arm Le vinci ches· in tl Satu I'UnS Yelle fashi John cont• tiona a ho a boa feat Un sevel Wyli that then ner 1 Van hits bit breal whic last: I~ode

s pt d- ar ve Pick· ncipdl Rail- you'll I • ~ r! 'fHE CONCORDTENSIS, FRliDAY, MAY 28, 1937 Page Thr!;!e Nine Faces R. P. I. Here Tomorrow; Track Meet At Troy $----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-- Ball Team Vs. Mass. State Monday;RunnersEndSeason Nelson men 'Try fm Third and· ~even Seniors in Action for :~'ourth Wins itt Final , Last Time in Contest Colleg·iate Games With Engineers A Her beating Hedi'icks 11-3 het·e · Captain Sherman Hirst, Vi bert Tuesday night on Alexande!' Field' Fqer, John Kreusi, Frank B. Gat- in a benefit game for the Outing: chei'I, Wallace R. Hughes, Jack Club, and after losing to At·my at Bhmm and Jack Glenn will wear West Point Wednesday, the va-rsity· the Union College colors for the baseball team now looks forward: last time tomorrow when the track to two mol'e collegiate games on te\m joumeys to Troy to meet the its schedule. Rennselaer Polytechnic Institute Tomorrow the nine vies with the outfit iu the final meet of the sea- R. P, I. Engineers here, and Mon- · son. day, the day set aside for the ob- Last Saturday the Dutchmen servance of Memol'ia'l Day which lost their first meet in twelve starts actually falls on Sunday, it w!ll to the Middle Atlantic Track and celebrate the occasion by meeting Field Champion, Haverford College. the Massachusetts State ·CDllege One of the reasons for the defeat team, of the Garnet was the lack of sec- The R. P. I. game will be the and and third place men. The fact ninth of the season for the G&rnet that tomorow's meet will be played boys and a win will give th.em a at Troy also hinders the chances three to five score in wins against of the team to start out on another defeats, and if they can repeat the. winning streak since there are winning ways Monday, they will many ineligible men, end the inter-collegiate season The only means of comparing the with a record of four· victories and. Dutchmen to the Engineers is the five losses. .scores against Hamilton College, With these two games accounted which both institutions have met. for the Alumni game scheduled for RPI met Hamilton recently and the 12th of June is the only re- was victorious 89-37, while the first malning competiHon for the Dutch- meet of the year for the Union mm. team brought us a victory 90.9 to 30.1. The fact that the Union men The Engineers will probably have improved since their first hav:e the misfortune of d!\awing competition offsets the disadvan- Colby Jones as -thek opposing tage we will have in playing away flinger. Jones has won two games ft•om home. and lost one to date for the best Whethet· Union wins or loses ac- flinging average on the roster. If cording to the score, the college is a one day rest is sufficient for the ·sure to lose on the 14th of June, port-sider, he may also try to turn when the seniors mentioned up back the New Englanders on Man- above receive their diplomas-never day. again to compete on any teams of Drop Army Game Army beat Union Wednesday at baseball by a score of 7 to 6. The wildness of Army's pitchers coupled with the Cadets' weak de· fenses nearly -cost the West Point- ers the game on more than one occasion. The score was tied twice. Army breaking up the ball game in its final time at bat when Grif- fin, team captain, l'Ushed home with the winning run after wall\- ing and then going the rest of th~? way on hits by Lough and Kaspec It was Army's final game before meeting Navy here neKt Saturday in the windup contest of the Ca- dets' season. Score: Union Collt>gt>- A& R II PO A E Th'>mlls, cf . .. . .. 3 2 2 2 0 0 Amazon, If . , , . , . 4 0 1 2 0 0 Brown, 1b . . . . . . . . 3 3 0 11 0 1 Wylie, rf ..... , • . . 4 0 1 1 0 0 Miller, ss .. , . , .. , . 5 0 2 2 1 1 Myers, 2b 3 0 0 2 4 0 Marra, 3b , , . .. . .. 4 0 0 2 1 0 Yuniclr, c . , . . . . . . 5 0 1 1 1 Waters, p ..•..... 2 1 0 2 0 x-Euchanan . . . • . . 1 0 0 0 0 Totals .......... 34 6 7 24 9 3 x-Batted for Waters in 9th. Army- AB R H FOA E Durbin, 2 4 0 1 4 2 0 Kasper, rf 5 1 3 0 0 0 Weinning, cf ..... 5 0 0 1 0 1 Lahti, If . . . . . . . . . 3 2 2 2 0 0 Dabflon, 1b , ..... , 4 1 2 10 1 1 H.uthet ford, ss . . .. 3 1 0 0 1 0 Ginder, ss . . . . . . . . 1 0 0 2 2 0 Stegrneier, 3b .. . .. 3 0 0 1 4 1 Curtin, 3b ...... ; . 1 0 0 0 0 0 Nolan, c ......... 1 0 0 4 0 0 Griffin, c ... , . , • , , 1 2 1 1 0 2 Hartline, p ...... 1 0 0 0 0 0 Hines, p , . . . . . . . . . 1 0 1 1 1 0 Lough, p , ... ; .... 1 0 1 0 1 1 xx-Holcomb .. , • . . 1 0 0 0 0 0 Totals .......... 85 7 11 26 12 6 xx-Batted for Hines in 6th. Score by innings: Union College ..... , .101 003 010-6 Army ........ , ...... 100 311 01*-7 Lose to Rcchester Led again by- the well-nigh in- vincible Wes Van Grafland, Ro- chestet· University -downed Union In the second game of the series Saturday, 9 to 1. Piling up eight runs in the first three innings, the Yellowjackets were tamed in good fashion for the next six •by Elmer Johnson, tossing his fii·st varsity contest, who allowed but one addi- tional run. Ed Mee connected for a homer In the second with three aboard to furnish the outstanding feat of the day. Union's lone run came in the seventh, on successive singles by Wylie, Mlller and Yunich. Up till that inning however, and from then until the end, no Gal'net run- ner even reached third, so well did Van Grafland control the eight hits he gave. His fast hall 1vas a bit too fast and his curve was breaking nicely, a combination which worked to perfection in the last home game of the year for the Kodak City team. i their Alma Matet'. ---0 Stickmen Register Win Over Williams Jack Smith Leads Dutchmen With Eight Tallies Against Purple In the final contest of the year for both teams, Union's lacrosse team ran roughshod over the Pur- ·pJe of Williams Saturday, 22-10. Led by Captaln and All-American Jack Smith who scored eight goals, Union put on a second half rally which netted twelve goals and stamped this year's ten as one of the best in several years. Williams put up a strenuous fight In the early periods, keeping cl<Jse to Union and at halftime trailing 8-7. Immediately after the second half whistle however, the Garnet began to find the target and scored ten straight goals. Hal Vandecar with seven, and Joe Paul and Doug Blue with three scores each helped Smith with the Union scoring, while for Williams, Dun- can with three and Meyersburg and Efferts with two apiece were outstanding. Union will be inactive now until the final game of the campaign, an unofficial one with Alumni, which will be played here on June 12. The official season closed with five victories, one tie and one defeat. Goals: Union-J. Smith C8l, Van- decar <7>, Paul <3>, Liffiton, Fra- ser, Blue. Williams-Duncan C3), Meyers- but'g (2), E:fferts (2), Means, Mac- Gruer, Brown. AMERICAN Al LAUNDRY The Most Pe1•fect Laundry Worlt in the Capitol District Phone 4-3166 1030 Barrett St. A NEW SYMBOL OF a national org·aniza- tion dedicated to the sci- entific conti·ol of dairy products, this seal is your assurance of finer ice cream. Ba.sReubn·na·•'n)gl th:Me .beaseestwon by H. -~~ One first place, one second place, -- two tie.:; for a fourth position, ami C. Smith, Beta Theta Pi; J•. Bloom,· !!;;;;=============;!.I INTRAMURALS MALE'S API'IUWIATION IN THE MAIL To llw Editor: Softball Re~mlts two fifth places were enough to Delta Phi; Canale, Lambda Chi· give the Betas a slight edge in the Alpha; Hamrnerst1•om, Lambda Baseball Field Mert held Wednes- Chi Alpha; B1·own, Derta Phi; An- -Friday, nl.ay 21-- Th~ta Nu Ep- day afternoon on Alexander Field. nese, South College; Ladue, Beta silon 14, Delta Upsilon 10; Lambda I wish to take this opportunity to express my personal apprecia- tion of the gpnetal encuwagement und support generously extended to the College Band by the college community during the past year. Lambda Chi Alpha was a close Theta Pi. Time 14.4 seconds, Chi Alpha. 1, Beta Theta Pi 1; Del- second in the scoring, but its fail- ta Phi 9, Phi Sigma Kappa 0. ure to enter more men ~n more Throwing for distance-Won by events spelled them .for defeat. E:nzer, South College; Laid, Phi Softball Playoffs Much enthusiasm was snown in Delta 'Theta; SU!lman, Kap-pa Sig- the affair. Hy Enzer, of So ulh Col- ma; Liffiton, Phi Delta Theta; and lege, proved himself wo:r'thy of Ladue, Bela Theta Pi. Distance- The constant encouragement of the President; the very evident in- ter·est of an inc1·easing number of the faculty; continued and valued support of the alumni; the enthu- siasm of the student body, these all furnish conclusive evidence of the fact that the entire college community appreciates the value of the Band to the institution and, flinging a baseball when he ave,r- 870 feet. aged 290 feet a throw in the base· Batting· fot· distance Won by ball throwing event. Cammack, Psi Upsilotl; Hatch, Psi The summaries: Upsilon; G. Miller, Phi Gamma Bunt and run to first bas-e- Won Delta; Di edt•ic h, Sigma Phi; and by Glen, Phi Gamma Delta; Van- Geer, Beta Tneta Pi. Distance-- decar, Phi Delta Theta; and Ran- 890 feet. dall, Lambda Chi Alpha, all Lied fm Accuracy throw- Won by Sloat- first place with 3.1 seconds. Endi- han, Chi Psi; Geer, Beta Theta Pi: cott, Sigma Chi; Rigvs Bet .a Theta Szczombr<>wsld, Lambda Chi AI· Pi; Ames, Phi Gamma Delta, pha, and Burl<e, Delta Phi tied for Shugg, Phi Gamma Delta; and An- third; Canale, Lambda Chi Alpha nese, South CoHege, all 3.3 seconds. Distance -12 feet. nlunday, May 24--Kappa N.u 9, Delta Phi 8; Delta Upsilon 16, Phi Gamma Delta 15. Tuesday, May 25-Kappa Nu 16, Delta Upsilon- 12; Delta Phi 5, Phi .. Gamma. Delta 3. Wednesday, May 2U-Delta Phi 21, Delta Upsilon 9. Final Leag-ue Standings Northern most important, sympathizes w-ith the p•·oblems of maintaining such an organization here. I have w Phi Gamma Delta , . . . . . . . . 7 Lambda Chi Alpha ........ 5 L known the Band intimately for 25 1 years. This has been one of the 3 most pleasant of those yPars. Beta Theta Pi ........... 4 4 Cha1'lcs T. Male. Kappa Sigma .. , .......... 3 5 ---0---- Phi Sigma Delta ........... 1 7 Eastern Hedricl\:s' Nine Def\eated· Faculty Tettm Not Up to w By Garnet Varsity,. 11-3 Par This Year Says Ketz ~~: ~~ ::::::::::::::::.! Frosh Golfers Triumph L The Union 0 College freshman in their second win last Sat.urday when Manlius School, 4% in a benefit .game for the Out- ing Club, the Union College varsity nine solved the .offerings ~.>f three Hedricks' pitchers to win easily, 11-3, on Alexander Field Tuesday afternoon. Bill Thomas was the ba.tti ng star of the day, hammering ·Out two doubles and a single, In h.is first time at bat he gave the bali a ride for one of the two base ·h.its; he was advanced to third b~· A.mazon, and sent home by Jones' single Colby Jones, stellar Union south- paw, disl.ed them up in filte form t<. outlast the three semi-]JI'<J heav- erb for his second win of the sea- son. ---01--- Frosh Lacrosse Team Out For 2nd Win Tornm'I'OW The freshman lacrosse team scored its first victory of the sea- son last Saturday afternoon when it ran roughshod over the Manlius School ten, 14 to 2, on Library Field. The yearlings will be seelt- in.g their second win tornol'!'ow when they close their schedule with a match here with the Man- bassett High School stickmen. George England led the Union frosh in scoring in the ga1ne with Manlius, netting six of t·he four- teen tallies, AU but one of Union's points were registered in the first three periods. At the start of the last quarter Coach Wyatt changed the lineup, substituting freely. This altered combination was :respon- sible for the remaining tally-, Qualify for College IIJen Black Ol' <ll\aln $6.00 to $10.00 a Pair Serving Old Union 43 Years PATTON & HALL 245 State St. 633 State St. Thru to Nott Terrace The old· bars just aren't what they used to be; they don't come bacl<. Such statements as these can be applied to the faculty softball men which last year won every one of their games mowing down their opposition with ease and reg- ularity, but this year· the best that they have been able to do is to split even in their eight games. They have dropped games to Sig Phi, Beta Theta Pi, Delta Phi, and Phi Gamma Delta, while winning games frorn Alpha Delta Phi, Ph.i Delta Theta, Chi Psi and Kappa Nu. In the opinion of Bill Ketz, star hurler, the team is \lousy.\ 'The greatest handicap is the lack of regulars. When the Faculty have not enough men to fill the gaps in their line up, they just insert a ringer in the field. When they played the Kappa Nu's, Jake BloDm cou.ld be seen filling up a big gap in the field. The faculty have a few games left to be played. They will be out to make up for their mediocre showing thus far this year, and maybe they will wind up their sea- son in a !>laze of glory. However, their remai.nlng games will be with the teams that were in the finals, and fireworl<s can be expected. CHARLES' (fiJrmerly Ed's) The oftlcial Union College bar- ber for tlte JliLSt 26 years. Aslt any upperclassmen, they know. Four cperators. Schenectady's greatest barber. Cor. STATE and B'WAY Inttrested in Schmectady l11llfrestd in UNlON MAURICE B. GRAUBART T l1t Jay Street Jeweler I 66 JAY STREET T-P atclz and Jewelry Repairing a Specialty p-ARKER PENS PHONE 6-3456 THE CAMPUS BARBER SHOP Basement of Silliman Hall A Special Service for Unio11 Si1.1dents ANTHONY F. BARBIERI HOURS: I :30-7:00 P. M. GUERRA PHARMI\CY 600 Union St., c::or. Barrett Phone 2-9419 PRESS Printers Neutrals .. , ................ 4 Theta Delta Chi ........... 3 Alpha Phi Delta .. , ........ 0 Southern w Delta. Phi . , • , ...... , ....... 7 Chi Psi ........ , .. , . . . . . . . . 5 Phi Delta 'Theta ........... 5 Psi Upsilon • , . , .. , ..... , , .. 2 Phi Sigma !Cappa ......... 0 'Vestern w Delta. Upsilon ............. 6 Alpha Delta Phi .......... 5 Kappa Alpha. ..... , ..... , , . 5 South College .............. 2 Theta Nu Epsilon ......... 2 SPORTS CALENDAH Tomorrow Varsity Baseball, Union vs. R. P. I., Alex:ander Field. F1•eshman Lacrosse, Union vs. Manhassett High School, Li brary Field. Track, Union vs. R. P. I., Troy, Monday Varsity Baseball, Union vs. Massachusetts State College, Alexande1· F'iel d. 3 golfers turned of the season ! they defeated 8 to 1 1 .;,. L 1 2 2 6 8 L 2 3 3 6 6 II:.ODAKS RADIOS FOUNTAIN PENS Expert Repairing J. T. & D. B. LYON \Evel'ything Photogra.phle\ 236 State St. Phone: 4-8647 CONNELLY BROTHERS DAIRY, Inc. I 858 HAMBURG STREET PHONE 2-0910 • SAMPLE FARES New York ..••. $2.35 Syracuse • . . . . . 1.95 Buffalo • , • , , • • • 3.95 Watertown , , . . 3.10 Ithaca • . • . . . . . 3.30 Scranto11 3.45 Boston •.•••••• Roc::hester ..••• Washington .••• Philadelphia Binghamton 3.60 3.20 5.60 3.60 2.25 Impossible? Not on your life! You'll hit the old home town in unpreced- ented affluence. The magic formula is simply this-go by Greyhound. It costs only Ya as much as driving even a small car-and a lot less than any other means of travel. Best of all, you'll enjoy the trip-a good crowd, a comfortable ride, For facts, figures and such see your local Grey- hound agent at the address below. Cleveland 6.55 Chicago , • , , , •• 11.35 Detroit • , • , .. . • 8.25 St. Louis , , ••••• 14.25 GREYHOUND TERMINAL 277 STATE ST. f'ho11e: Schenectady 4-5521

/ Page Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 28, 1937 N·ew Festival Star Is Lillian Emerson llere This Summer :New Public Speaking Experiment Or. ;Fox and Commencement ; Fraternities Elect Officers I :Aided 40 Daily Assembly Talkers .~--- lias Appeared in Numerous Bmadway Productions In Long Caree1· With the conclusion of this :year:s assembly p1·ograms in to- clay's Mo¥ing Up Day exercise~. a!Iowances. The quota o.f abs·ences . has been .ta!;cn by only 2.75 pe1· cent. .. the college au tho! it ies have · 1 luought forty representative stu- Dr. Kellogg stressed .the need of : dent ~pealters before the coi'Jegc: the tl'Uining in stating that \clear bod~. dil ect, ,brick, well-digested presen- 'I'.he stuc!ent speakel'S were of- tation is imperative\ in both bu~i­ feretl the as..-.;istance of Profc~::;uJ nes,; and professi<mal l[ife. Lillian Emercun, young star of \Say When,\ \The nagged Edge,\\ and \AtJest That \'/oman,\ Nance ·IJ'NeH, and Frances Starr have been definitely signed for the 1937 season of the Mohawk Drama Fes- t.i val, Genet\a Manager Freue!'ick 'l:tJJII·in announced today. Describl'd as \one of the most JH umi:;ing young stars in the New York theatre today, Miss Emerson should prove a happy addition to tlw FestivaJ cast,\ said Mr. Calvin. In addition to her cm·ee1· as an ac- t l'ess, Miss Eme1 son has made a· world tour as a dancer. She is an accomplished musician, also, and· has appeat ed in command perfor- I:nances before Royalty. Geoq.;e D. Kellogg, whn huH hud charge of the speciul cou.rse in public speaking offer0d by the General Electric Company to its \tE>st men\ since 1922. The inten•st aroused among the sl mien\ body ' by these speakers resul\ed in the spontaneous request for informal extra-curricula.~: instructioB this Spring by twenty-five students. . Some 0f the outstanding Jeuders of the country who ·learned the rudiments of public speaking at Union he·fore the CivH War were' William H. Sewald, Amasa J .:· Parlter, Amos Dean, and Henry' Tappan. MISS LILUAS EM!o3RRON The program of student speal<ei s. was drawn up in an effwrt to rem- -----0-·--- Boo!\ Prize Awarded edy the condition re1·ealed by a questionnaire sent out to the Class Wednesday, May 26.-John J: of 1911 last June. The g!'E·atest · Potocki, '37, of Schenectady, was· need that the class felt fo.r the col- awarded $25 by Union College fen. lege cunicuium was .public speak-. having made the best collection of ing. Since the death of Profes~o1· books during his four years at col-· HorraC'e l\1C'Kean the interest i·n lege. The presentation was made\ Under thl' aegis of Arthur Hop- kins Miss Emerson has played; 1·oles in \Man on Stilts\ and \Pass-· ing Present\ and has made per- sonal hits in \Tell Her The Truth\. and \\Vife ln,urance.\ Playing op-. posite Florance Reed in \The 'Thomughbi eds, she won the de- scription of \~tar material\; later Hhe V..'as u B Ul'ee:..-s as the 1ead in the musical cunwdy, \Say When.\ This season 'he played in \The Ragged Edge\ and \Arrest That Woman\ for A. H. Woods, and with Mr. Cobu1·n in \Around the Cor- the sub.kct had declined in the col-. by President Fox at Daily Assem- K N .:< ftb II ('h • lege and wa> prese1ved only in bly today. appa U .:::>0 a ampl()nS some English courses and in sonl<' Hyman A. Enzer, '38, editor-in- engineei ing ~emina1·s. ch~ef of The ·Concordiensis, oc- nel·.\ As a l'haractPr actress, Miss O'Neill has earned high praise; and she has been called by a New Yorl> <'J'itic \One of the rare things in the theater: a chat,mingiy natural Hrt tP~~ of gn)ut distinction. \She ha:-; t•njoyt·d lung 1 uns in ''!\.iuc- h··t h\\ \1!<-dda <:abler,\ \Trilby.\ ··Ttw Hot t't 1 I P~~... and \Canullt·.· ~Itt• h~L' bt·t-n uut=--tanJ.1ng 1n tht· ha:-.tot ll' t~t!t·:' of l.JUt>i'l\ ~:liz.abt•fh . • .J~•an of :\1 t'. Clt·opat 1 a. Thai!\'~. :lla~da, and ;'-;anr); in \Oll\'t'l Twist.\ Mis~ Stan recently drew out· standing praist• hom the NE'W York clitics for hl'r performancP ill \ThP !.al;\\ in whieh slw co\ \tarred with Cathei me HeJJIJUtll, un ! .. ave of absense ftom Holly\ wuutl. .:\11:-;::, Stall \;a:; bot !l ir. Ont•tH1ta and t•dth·att.·d in tht• puh he sl\huub of ~\lb.tny. ~hP nmdt· ht•J fn :-.t :-.t:.q.:,l' :.tl•i'ParancP at A1 bauy 111 H:Ul undn t h<' manag<' utt·nt uf Ftt•tki 1d; Hand\ Imnlt'di· atdy aft<'l'WHI •l <he jnurnPd to ~t'W Yoll{, whPlt' ~hf' was fe-aturPd. in tlw !Ill!! ray Hill TheatPr's pro· dud ion:-; tlf \()\lr Hoy~\ and \ThP P1 i\'atP Sf'('J rtat y .\ {) SOTH' 1':~ Air :-lei\\·lct\ The Kappa Nu softball team eap- tured the coi!P•e soft.ball chan~pion­ ,;hip when it defPatPd th .. Delta Phi outfit 8 to 5 ye~tetday in the f,inuls of the i.ntramural curnpetHion\ Previously Kappa Nu had won eight straight gamed to sweep the league and .finish up undefeated'. This is t·he second cono;ecutive time Kappa Nu has gained the I championship, having gained t·he · cha .. mpionship last year with 10 vic- I· tones. The \\'tu I h·P'\ t m•·nt is snlici1 in~ nppltrants fui tht·n July cia:;.; at lilt· Au {'olp:-. Ttatnlng Centt'l' at H.illtU<Ji[Jh 1· tdd, T<'Xa>o. C'opi<·' of JHtlllJthlt·t ....... 1111 ttw subjt·(·t of \Fir 111~ ('.illt·t ... of tlw ,\lillY t'\ir Cui p:-;'' and a(Jplu·attun bb Ill<~ atP on tilt• at t lw I J),tt't·Jllt'Tlt l~un·a u. Po~ition\- Opt>n :-'al\:-- pn: af1111l~ ;II t' continuing to f'l)lllt' to th•· attt·ntlull of thfl Pl:u·t•- !lll'tlt I~UJP:tu Tho~,, with inclina- t 1u11 for t'a1Pt·rs 1n thi~ fip\d arP a.'k•·tl to call for particulars. H.-funds l~t·flllltl.· fut lotl.o.. ... un tl~t• gyrn l\<t~lUUl }oL'kl\t:-. \\ill ht· Ilt.llk f111tll .JUIIl' 1 ltJ JUIIt' };1 IJt•l\\t·t'll tht• lluUl., ul ullt· o'c:nt k and fh·c t..~t•lut·k l.J) 1·1 t·d l'.ul\:-. at lht· :--tod~ J:uulll an tlw O .. t·.~t:'IHt.Hll·Jf tlw gyrn llUl\'lUllt u(JlJu.--..tlt.· t l1t' cullt•gt· pool '!Itt· tt·l Utic..l •~ tliH' dollar. !.nuns A\ailahle Th<'ll' ;, a H<'voivmg TnJsl Fund }i,IH•~An \\\ tl'1t· KntM\hts TPnlplar Ed- llC'~d i11Hlll }4~ounctahun. thP lJlirpUSe c1f \\ hwh i\' to a .. \:... hv loan~ wo1 · t-hY ~twlt·nt ... 1n ptw~uin·~ tht>tJ Edu· cat inn ThP loHn 1~ nvulr to and up<!Il thP t·Ps.ponsibthty of the Htudent :tlonP nnti not w the Patl'nt or HPlutivP. The student must be a bonafide resident ot the :\tate of New York. Loans are g1anted in accordance with the available Funds at the time of application. T he interest of the student body cupied the rostrum at the morn- is mani.fested in the attendance ing chapel pl'ogram, reading sev- record for this yem·, only one per era! poems in conjunction with C'<'llt having ovrrcut their· ab\Pnce Me>morial Day. PINE GROVE DAIRY, Inc. 118 S. FERRY ST. SCHENECTADY. N.Y. •\\' .... ,r.\\'' ... ••• -:>;:::~' May :n, Commencement ad- dress at the Horace Mmm School· for Boys, New York City. June 1, Commenceme,nt ad- dress at Keuka Col·leg-e, Kculm Pa·tk, New York June 2, ·Commencement ad- dress at lhe l\1otTioJ CoUJtty Jun- ior Colll•gc, Morristown, N. J. June :5, Commencerne.nt ad- dt·es:o nt the It·vlng School, Tan·ylown, New York. ;June 7, Commencement au- dress at Hartwick College, One- onta, New York. June 10, Commencement ad- dress of Mohawlc SchotJl· and Albany -Law School coJn.mence- ment, .klbany, New Yol:'k. June 13, Union baccalaureate addxess. June 14, Union ·commence- ment and Albany Medical Col- lege corn·mencement, Albany, New York June 15, Address dedicating tablet at Tuckerman's Ravine, DIHlha user, New Hampshire. .June 18, CommenceJn.ent ad- dress a:t Scarsdale High. School. -----o---- Ope>nlng fOl' Teache;- 'The last meeting of the college year for many .of the fraternities has tuken place and new officers have been installed. The following officet.s wm·e elected: Psi Upsilon, Pt e;ident, William Hawltes, Vice- l't csidents Eldward Arundel and · Robert Ferguson; Alpha Della Phi, Pt e~iden\,; E:!dward Arundel and lJtcsidcnt, Preston Reed; Sigma Chi, Pre:;ident Kenneth Reinhardt, Vice-Presi·dent Severyn Hasbroueit; Phi Delta Theta, President Harry Myers; ·Lambda Chi Alpha, Presi- dent ·William Thomas, Vice-Presi- dent Sherman Parry; Alpha Phi Delta, PDesident, Armand Cammar- ota, Vice-President, Ftank Mele. 0 Student Council Named (Continued from Page 1) Ellmira; WHuam !'. Thomas, Lan:b- da Chi Alpha, of Jamestown; and David Yunich, Kappa Nu, .of Al- bany. The Sop·homore members are: The ?lacement Bm·eau has learned of an opening for an Eng- Hsh teacher in New 'York State. Men qualified are aslted to caH at the Administration Building. Samuel C. ·Hammerstrom, Lambda Chi Alpha, of Jamestown; Louis J. Kozlevcar, Lambda Chi Alpha, Cleveland, 0.: John S. Krull, Beta Theta Pi, Lynbrook, N .. J.; Thomas H. Ralston. A'lpha Delta Phi, Brockway, Pa. LOUIS WASSE,RMAN lj)UALITY MEAT MARKET 354 Broadway 1st to those of Hnights Templar an tecendan ts. 2nd to those of Masonic antecen· dents. 3rd to those without Masonic an• tecedants. The maximum loan is-- $200 whPn on!' year is required to complete the course. $200 per yeat· when two years are required to complete thr course. $200 each of last two years when thref' or four years are required to rotnpietP th<' cotl!'sr. •.. giving more pleasure to more people every day $200 the last year unly when mote than four yPar·s an• I'Pt)Uit t•<l tu rnn1plrtf 1 thP colll :---t• The maximum loans may not PX· I'Pf'd $400. Fut tht•t· informal ion may lH' s< cured' at the Dean's offici'. ChesteJjie!dJ· zvill gtPe you more ;Ieasure . •. Up-to-the-minute trains and 1nodern planes make travel easier • . more pleasant. And wherever you see folks en .. joying these modern thingsoflifc you' 11 sec them enjoying Chester .. field Cigarettes. Upoto-the-minute methods and finer ingredients ... pure cigarette paper ... mild ripe aromatic home- grown and Turkish tobaccos, aged and mellowed for two years or more ... make Chesterfield an out- standiu.g. cigarette. ., , i I ' 1,1$ '' ~ .. ( ( ' \ 'li c i: j. t a s n ii d 0 d S( gc st al re of st C• e~ se \'] te of ca re m be ur cl: ar

