Hotel • UJl\HO!'l COLLEGE L1 BR; • 1877 StS 1937 Z5U 60th Anfl;iversary Issue Vol. LXI., No. 13 PRICE FIVE CENTS UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY\ N.Y., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1937 19th C t 1 ------------------------------------·------------·---------------------~;;-,illllil C d. .. e~n u.ry ll!'m:::::m:::::::::mm:::m:mmm:mmm:.mw:m::m:mmm:mm::m:m::::::m:m::m:mm::m::::::::mm:::m:m:mm::mmm::mm:m:::::m:m:: mmmm:::mmmmmmm::mm:::::::mmmmm::mmmm:mm m i 0 n c 0 r 1 ens 1 S Publications .Ill THE CONCORDIENSIS ing pt>OS])ectus: First, we desire to increase ;,,i Ann,iversary • m literary interes-t by inducing an emulation m • Old Union Was Mother Many Unusual Periodicals Of :m PuBLISHED MoNTHLY DuRING THE m! 60 1 ,~ Bvc~~;~~:O.~::o, ~{~!~~·~Er~~::£7.?.!T::~!~ ~ to~n;is ~~~;;:~~~!:; 0 ~~; .ll !~.';. 1 \ .. , 1 ! .. : JUFN:::~~;,~::::, ~:~o:::i:!t~~:·~ !~:~.::~~~=~~:!: .. '1 ... 1 ... 1, Years of Publication Commemorated This Month Are The first sixty years of The Con- cordiensis, 1877 to 1937, come to a close this man th. Offspring of val'ious class w. w. CHLLDS, '79 F. F. CHISOLM, '7 9 N. L. REED, '\ not necessarily C()nfined to the narrow limits Byron, a society beau, and, whisper 1 ' ~:~t!r· to \~~~eac~~r!::D~~ ~~;~ •m LAw ~E;~~~;:NDER, •so r:o~~~~~~~~~MEN\ of a certai~ cou.rsed, but embhracting in.detp~nd- l!ii journals and records, The Concor· diensis, the official publication of the students of Union College (and Union University) was the tangible result of cooperative effort of the junior, sophomore and freshman classes in 1877 to print an all-col- lege monthly. ent excarswns an researc ; o mam am a Seminary,\ in the fall of 1806, but: m TERMS m his guardian thought Schenectady's. ·.:.'j·.·j. One Doll a!' Per, Year, in advance. Single CtJpies, 10 Cn1ts high toae of co-ur-tesy, honor and refinement :,~' .. ,::!:, ~~ isolation might cure him of the ADDRESS • 11 1 t' tl t \increasing and desolate effects of· ::: ' THE CONCORDIENSIS m a OU.l' rea ums, as among gen emen; 0 :::o democra.sy.\ His name was John I m Box 481, Schenectady, N.Y. encourage greaJel' activity in all the enter- m I H~~rftf!'~~:· was a confused af- , I' Ill CONTENTS prises of the c;llege, the musical and rowing lii fair of studies under Tutor Allen, ::: LITERARY: ·Page associations, the gymnasium, baseball and \' respondents, awkward g-estures of: Mars~aff Ney- ~ = ~ = = ~ l football, the debating societies, etc. The Insecure in its financial standing at its beginning, but supported by enough interested students, the col- lege news-magazine, overcame dif- ficulties of gathering material, printing on schedule, and securing subscriptions and within ten years became firmly established. elegant letters to a legion of cor-· A Re e 1 friendship toward his classmates, Prof. Isaac W. Jackson - - - - - 2 fact is, to<> ma::ny men come here and settle and bitter complaining over money. E I' h L' · c 11 Ed · 3 Money, or the hope of breeding a,· ng Is Iterature m 0 ege ucation - down to a set ~f slow and narrow habits. We little of it, gave rise to Union's Prof. Taylor Lewis - - - - - 4 first student publication, which ap- Honor • - - - - - - - 5 need to ~w:ak~ and g0 at all th.ese things with peared early in 1807. To My Niece - - - • - - 5 more lif~ and ei1e1·gy, and secure the benefits Semi-Literary Printed at different presses each year and frequently hindered by lack of facilities for accurate news- gathering The Concordiensis in its rtrst decade made little attempt to be anything more than a semi- literary, semi-newspaper. In 1890 the format· of the magazine was enlarged and revitalized with new print and cover, and was put out as a semi-monthly. In 1892 it was printed on alternate Wednesdays, and in 1896, it was issued weekly. EDITORIAL: Salutatory • _ _ _ _ _ _ 6 they afford. Tl:!e Concordiensis will be found Military Drill - - - - · - 6 on duty- h.ere e:v:ery time. Then, we wish to New Rule for Seniors - - - - - 7 Football _ _ _ _ • _ _ '7 keep ou.r Alumni acquainted each. with the Down-town Disturbances · - - - 7 other's f()liunes, and inter.ested in the wei- To Our Alumni - - - - - - 7 f · AT 11.11' t H · Duty of the Seniors _ _ _ _ _ 7 fare o then ~ma .u.La er. el'e agam we FALL ATHLmcs - - - - - - - ~ need assistanc.e if we are to succeed. We CLAss ELEctxoNs - - - - - - - !J· shall also ende~vor to more closely unite the PERSONALS - - - - - - • - !() PARAGRAPHs _ • - - - - - - 11 different departments of the University. We send g:reeting's to the Law and Medical The Pastime \On suit a b I e encouragement,\ w1·ote young Payne in his most. ornate style, \it is proposed to is- sue a Weekly Paper in this city to be called The Pastime. Such per- sons as are disposed to promote a project of this nature are requested to affix their names to thts sub· scription. The editor will not impli- cate himself in promises which he may not be able to perform; but he pledges himself tba.t no exer- tions shall be wanting on his part to render the .l:'astune a spn·tted auxiliary to the cause of polite lit- erature.\ The spirit embodied in the all- enclusive sweep of that last state- ment was the spirit of the paper. \The matter, original or selected,\ was \exclusively literary.\ John Howard dunned his classmates for \lubcubrations\ ~s he called all contributions; they were usually re- prints of poems and essays, trans- lations from foreign works, and not infrequently, grandiose poems of his own. Apparently The Pastime made money, for its editor kept up his work until 1808 when he for· swore Union and all the tyranny of guardians for the more romantic, and, for John Howard Payne, the far more lucrative life of America'a leading juvenile actor. The Pastime is important to us, however, not only because of its famous editor, but because it was our first Union College publication, probably the second undergraduate paper printed. in this country, if we allow Dart- mouth's claim of priority. l EDITORIAL schools,. and bespeak their active interest. m Finally,. it is ~ll:r purpose t<> bring to bear ti~ m It is an unpleasant feature of the past tba.t upon Union th.e ambitions and achievements !l~ ,!II the college paper should have been disc<Ja- and prevalent SJ;>irit of other colleges, and to \Ill tinued by class dissention. In the J)ast let it obtain j 0 r her arnong them the consideration The formation of The Press Club in 1899 with Philip Thompson, Gardiner Kline, Arthur S. Golden (censor), and Lester T. Hubbard as its first members was the next step in the awakening of college consciousness to the importance of adequate public relations. From a 24-page publication issued weekly to a four-to-eight-page semi- weekly was the transition of The Concordiensis in the next 20 years At the fortieth anniversary of its publication, 1917, under the editor ship of Ralph Knight the paper Wall issued three times a week with a literary supplement every four issues. Into the four-column newspaper was put all the news which established The Concordi- ensis on par with the news-gather ing agencies of other colleges. Five columns were printed after 1920, and such stories as the an- nouncement of the first wireless broadcast of musical concert by Union College's own radio club made important headlines. The Floriad Three years later the Floriad, flowered with the same bouquets of poems and essays and reprinted material which had filled the pages of The Pastime. Although we have not been able to examine a. com~ plete edition of this second Union paper, we know that it withered and died with number fourteen of volume one. The ability of the undergraduate to stomach the over- powering odor of romanticism and imported culture is wonderful to contemplate as one turns these faded pages. Elegance and Refine- ment, well capitalized, absorbed a vigorous life from the ink wells of these forgotten editors, In 1823 came the :Miscellaneous Cabinet, probably published by persons close to the college, al- though apparently not an official college paper. It appeared from June 12, 1823 until Ja.nuary 3, 1824, twenty-six numbers in all. The Student Album remain as a warning for the future. Th.e which she deserves. classes of Seventy-nine and Eighty novr undertake to supply what has lately been tlu greatest deficiency of the University. 'I'o accomplish this, we banish all class-spirit We desire that The Concordiensis shall be a genuine representative of the culture aud scholarship, the manliness and enterprise, of Union, and to this end we invoke the h.ea;rty co-operation of students, Faculty, Alum:ni and friends. To the Alumni we beg to offer the follovv- .. THE We already .foresee many difficulties to be encoun-tered, and are conscious of the unfit~ ness aad inexperience we bring to meet them. Theref~re, we feel the grea.t need of assist- ance and su:pp.ort from all who desire success for a live paper, devoted to Old Union's in- terests.. We JUake O:Ul\ bow to our exchanges as we enter the circ:le of college publications, mod- (C()ntinued on Page 6) Many College Papers Founded 1870-1890 On the 50th anniversary of The Concordiensis, the Gazette Press took over the publishing of the paper for the first time, following a period of almost thirty years that the Schenectady Art Press had done the printing. Spl)rtS !'age The above is a.n exact repro- duction of the editorial page of the :first issue of The Concordi- e:nsls, witl1 as close a. copy of the 1877 type faces as is pos- sible. CONCORDIENSIS. A six-column newspaper was issued regularly for one year, and in 1928-29 the paper went back to five columns. A notable innovation was the formation of sports page. The period from 1870-18 9 0 saw Athletic news before this time was the birth of many college newspa- prominent in every issue of The pers, including the Concordiensis. Concordiensis, taking up more It was at this time that most of the space than any other phase of col- This (to the right) is a line~ reproduetion of the front page of tlJ.e :first issue. Typical of the journalism of the day was tile section titled \Literary wbieh was milst prominent among the dep5rtments of the paper until athletics took precedence over all othel' matters. turous and ghoul haunted region of the horror story, and still smelled of th.e odors which rose from the iambic sweetness distilled by the contemporary- poets, but it had an imposing make-up worthy of the best magazines of tbe day. In the first number the editors depl?red \The. Present State of AroerlCan Literature and Our Own Pros- pects.\ VoL. l. ScliENEC'fA.I>Y, N. Y., NovEMBER, 1&77- No.1. LITERAR~. A REVERY. Is maner dl? Goes soul ror naught? Do all our a.sf)iratlons and our do111l1s, Oo nil these ~ubtlc, winge!lth~:>ug~t~. Lea.ve trace behind lhem a one. ? WhEn in yon tl.lttefut, odor«Jus 'W~~. We walk alone anJ c:dmly m!lse, Do pe-rfume~ cheer :~.nd mustc 1l11l\T\I: 1 But solitude's lrr.splring thcugbl~ More 1leeting, llStle<;s pro\Yd \Vhtm yor1der setting sun sets ·iire To all the drape\Yy of cloud, Docs color's infiueBce lea\Ve n.:l ln.!ch O!l. us, \s 011 the leaves? Do our resolves and hone-st tr-ials., Do moral vic fries l>ra,·oly won, Docs patience long ami. [!tarity Etcrt no iniltlCilCC so grc:::u, As motions physical ? Be praise' man's in. nor life does t:cll, Upon tlJCWOTid witholll run wd\ ... 'Earh hope. eacli fear, each secrel lhO'tlght 1 Each bc.'lut~ous.scene, en t1msiast•5 dream. Each purpose formcd,cach \'OW well kept, Hils strength to bst ten thou san~ )'Can, lla'i powl.'r to sha?e e'en adar11ara.t They make the mm, man~ rules tho wilrld, They al! arc rc·ll,tbcy o11ly real. the army when none but r<>-yal ty could hope for promotion, he advanced s.]Mvly at first ; but after equality <~f rights w~~ restored, his rise was rapid. We see him in Napoleon's battles along the RhiE1c; at Wo7RlS and Frankfort; at Stuttgard a~>od Zurich. Again, he is Minister to Switzerlan<i., and shortl!y a. fierward a Mar- simi of France. With courage Ney c01nbincd coolness and sound judgmetlft. In tl>c heat of battle he stood in marble calm. ness, observ--ing every moverpent and never erring in. 1tis conmands. These qualities won his soldiers' \\hc,.rts. He led men where no other: general coold. Time and again did Napoleon Jllace in Ney's hands the fate of the Empire. Of the num-cro>!s titles conferred upon this her!>-, the \vorthiest '\vas that of\ Brav- est of the :Brn~c ... ito win..-rhis name from Mu- rat, Macdona!<! and Lann-., VJas grea~ glory. A page froi~Hhe Mars!Ial's life will illust.rate his character~ Moscow was taken. l'be burning towers were flaring .0.11 the night ; b<Juses \Vere falling ; walls were cora•hing d01vn. With forty thou- sand men Ncywas dc:t,liled t ()cover the retreat. The soldiers suffered tc .. rii>ly. At every step some one stJccurnbed to the weary march and pinching cold Those behind stumbled over MARSHAL N EY'. the bodies or those wlto Jt,td preceded. Many, - in despair,th:rc\v U\vaytl.dr arms and lay down First Jrmkn Priu OraliG'Jh to die. Cl~uds of croaking ra,•ens hovered - near. The \V\·Qlv-es ho·wlcdarni~l the snow. The JAMF.'io cosLE'fT S~[]H--3:, Jit , winter wind v.hi.stled tbrough the cold pines. . legiate activity. oldest collegiate publications were The passing generations of the founded. editors of The Concordiensis have At that time there seems to have been an important trend toward . journalism in the colleges. How- : ever, there are two notable excep- tions to the rule. The \Campus\, at • Middlebury, and the Dartmouth pa- per, published for the first time in lS30 and 1839 respectively. These papers stand as pioneers in the field, followed in 1868 by \Am- herst Students\ the \Wesleyan· Argus\ and the Colgate Ma.roon\. emphasized similar editorial princi- ples. For example, in 1892 appeared this in an editorial: \it is a curious but very deplotable fact that so many things at college are run by cliques and societies. We never have an election but see a great amount of wire-pulling, and the you-scmtch-my-back and 1'11- scratch-yours method go.ing on.\ The Concordiensis even offered a Some of those first published dur- ing that period are tbe Rutgers \Targum\, 1869, the \Lafayette\, 1870., the Bowdoin \Orient\, 1871, the Harvard \Crimson\, 1S73, the Rochester \Campus\, 1873, the Princetonian\ 1877, the Yale \Daily News\ 1878, the Hobart \Herald\, 1879, the \Smith College Weekly,\ 1879, the Cornell \Sun 1880, the M. I. T. \Tech\, 1881, the Swarth- more \Phoenix\, 1881, the Vermont \Cynic\, 1883, the R. P. I. \Poly- technic\ 1885, the Williams \Rec- ord\ 1887, the \Hamilton Life\ 1889, and the Michigan \Daily\, 18\HJ. $25.00 prize for the best college song written during the year, even as was done last year. The only difference lies in the fact that no one claimed the prize and the money was turned into a prize for the baseball player who got the best batting average for the year From the dim past the oldest liv- i;ng editor of The Concordienais, John Ickler, '80, of Ferndale Mich., writes to congratulate the 'college paper of today and to add some reminiscences of the college in his day, The following are excerpts from congratulatory letters and articles from former editors of The Concordiensls: 1879 ~80 I notice you speak of Volume one, number one of The Student Album, June 15, 1827, con- tained one of the typically light tales so dear to the reader of those days of gothic literature. \Le Solitaire\ begins with this happy reflection: \There is a calm, un- earthly feeling that perme3:tes. the soul, at the stilL hour of mtdnrght, when universal nature is slumber- ing in the arms of repose; when the busy and the bustling scenes of day are over; and the mind, col- lected within itself, feels the bright glow of intellectual joy, which is known only to the mind of the sentimental and the refined.\ Pos- sibly the readers of The Student Album were not sufficiently senti- mental and refined; at any rate the paper expired with volume one, number one. From November, 1832, until July, 1934 Union supported a really am- biti~us student publication. True, The Parthenon and AcademiciELn's Magazme still reflected that tor- \We have no acknowledged class called authors,\ they sorrowed. \We hear it daily asserted that we have no national character.\ Eng- land Is berated for berating Amer- ica. .A challenging call is issued to all young writers to use the pages of The Parthenon to prove ho~ wrong the calumniators of thiS new country were. And the young writers responded, We fin~ such stories as \The Somna.bt;tbst ~nd His Daughter,\ a recurrmg t1t1e, \ D u t c h Remlniscenses,\ under which are gathered a number of flowel·y tales of old Schenectady- and the Mohawk Valley, such poenls as \The Battle of Lexing- ton\ and \How Worthies~ See~s Life.\ In this first vo!uJp.e JS a stlr- ring report of the arrival of the (Continued on Page 7) ~IICIIh.E.I. NEY was a s<1ldicr br inheritance. The driving ~nrnv cut th< very flco;h. At night His father served in the Seven Veil~· war 1 and the soldier<;. lay down ab-out their firt•o;:., and the at his f.llhcr's knee be listened t:o tlle tales o-f morning fou.11cl cirdcs ~r ·<leJ.d men in their valorous deeds ·tltat thrilled his S(Jul and fed place<;. Ncy's forty thc-\l\>a:nd men bccnmc fif. his inherent longing to b~ a soldier. teen hundn:><l. Still he <;t.rug~led on, him'>.t'lf Ncycould boast no lofty lineage_ Entering gnawed byp,tng.c>f hungel', h1s heart blccdmg. Besides being one of the oldest Collegiate publications, the \Con- cordiensis\ is the oldest paper in Schenectady, outdating the \Ga- zette\ which was founded in 1894, and the Union-Star, which was first published in 1911. J. F. Green of '79 as the first editor. I can't recall Mr. Green, and always believed that Mr. E. P. White was the first editor, and I always understood that he first suggested the plan of publish- ing a college paper and calling it (Continued on Page 2

Pag·e Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1937 ::=:=======;:; ~~=~==-==~~~====~===;===============~=~=========-====~~-~~ FROM THE PAST (Contlmied from Page 1) the ConC'nrdiensis. He was the most able mnn in the C'laAs of '79 and evE'!yon~ admired and rPspected him. Robert C. Alexander. a younger brother of Rf'V nr. 0f'O!'ge Alf'xan- der was a member of the llrst board of edito1s but he was a member of the Junior class, and the chief edi- tors wei'e always chosen from the senior class. He would have made an unusual chief Pditor and only a few years later became the distin- guished editor of the New York Mail and Express, and then the proprietor. . Electric lights were a no:velty m those days and Professor Price never considered it too much work to furnish the illumina,tions for any party on the hilL The ladies of the First Presbyterian Church once held a party in Captain Jack's gar- den and Professor Price ·entertain-, ed ;,.ith his electric light larc light). The boys in South College joi~ed in the celebration., by decoratmg their windows with banners com- posed of bed-sheets at the end of a flag-pole. Alexander wrote a. ve~-y funny article in the Concord1ens1s, in which he said that if ladies on the campus were as much of a rarity as a b1ass mine, such hilarity. might be excusable. Of course everybody knew that Alexander was the instigator of the decora- tions and !mew that the rebuke was not intended to be taken seriously. The students of today may well think of us of 50 years or more. ago, as living in the Middle Age;o. We had no telephones, or electnc lights. All students studied by the old kerosene lamps, and each stu- dent supplied himself with what he needed. An old man would make the rounds of the dormitories offer- ing to sell kerosene and some boys to tease him would say he had water mixed In his kerosene at which he would earnestly argue that his oil was not diluted in any way. Many of the boys however were so annoyed at certain fellows who would constantly seek to bor- row when their lamps were low that some of the mme provident would keep two oil cans, one con- taining water to lend and the other with oil for their lamps exclusively. ... In 1880 Harvard was ambi- tious to publish a daily paper and wanted us to contribute a column of news from Union, which we obligingly did. In 1880, too, we pub- lished a commencement number clad in pink. covers, the most i~ter­ estina article in which contamed the b~autiful tribute which Mr. Ed- ward Carey, one of the editors of the N. Y. Times paid to Col Elias Peisner, a former professor of G~r­ man at Union College, and son-m- law of our distinguished Dr. Taylor Lewis, who was killed in battle, May 2, 1863, just a few weeks be- fore the graduating exercises of the class of 1863. The class presented the bronze bust of Col. Peisner to the College which stands in the li- brary. John Ickier, '80 1882 83 Until I received your - · letter I did not know, or had forgotten that The Con- cordiensis was such an infant when I was a member of the Board. It certainly was a pallid creature. In- cubators and vitamins had yet to be discovered and it recei:ved scant nourishment from contributors either editorially or financially. It is only fair to state that the field was :very restricted, the student body was small and the meager ad- :vertising was in the nat\,\! e of a compliment. The budget was fre- quently unbalanced and deficits were no rarity. The second year I was on the Board, I took over the business management. The magazine was printed in a little job plant on the second floor of a building on State Street next to the rallt·oad tracks. The end of that year, luckily, found the slate clean for the next board. We left a rather aenemic child to our successors who have done bet- ter, increasingly better by their charge. An incident occurred in this sec- ond year which I have always re- membered. Roland Reed, the co- median, was billed to play one night in Schenectady either before or after a week's engagement In Al- bany. His advance agent to my surprise came up to the college and gave me an \add\ for The Con- cordiensis to cost $15 to cover which he wrote out an order on the box ofl'lce. When the night arri:ved the sale was so poor, the perform- ance wa9 cancelled. Now $15 was a lot of money to The Concordiensis in those days so I went down to the Givens Hotel loolring for the treas. urer. In answer to my Inquiries, a trim, keen, pleasant looking man rose and asked what I want and stated that be was Mr. Reed. I showed him the ad and the order and without a word he pulled out some bills and paid with a smile for something that was not of the slightest value to him. Conde Hamlin, '83 1884 85 Your letter caused • a hurried digging-up of bound volumes of Concordiensis and many hours in re-living college days from 1881 to 1885. Concordiensis, Vol. VII, No. 1, October 22, i883, shows John F •. Delaney, Editor-in-Chief, and J. T. Morey among associate editor.s. Collegiate- 1877 We tool ' it seriously, but I doubt if wheedled, cajoled or forced from I am told is the only picture thus • b k junior members of the Concordy preserved in the college archives., anyone else did. As I loolt · ac staff, under pain of instant ,d!smis- Why this should be, I do n()t know,, on It now, it must have been pretty sal. One, however, deserve~ men- because, as I remember it. we had. tenible at times. · tion summa cum laude. It .is pre- thut picture taken by an Albany. We were usually late ·In getting •er·v'ed to posterity in pri~t over A.s an experiement the depart- ·ments of Law, Medicine and Phar- macy, at Albany were represented, making the paper at university publication. As the increased cost of publication was not met by cor- respondingly inc! eased subscrip- tions the experiement was dis- continued at the end of the year. Volume VIII, 1884-1885. has my name as Editor-in-Chief. F. S. Ran- dall, '86, who died at his home in Idaho, several years ago, was lit- eruy editot•, and William Hutch- inson, '85, Business Editor. Ran- dall became Editm-ln-Chief for 1885-1886. There were several other assistant editors and my re- membrance is that we worked to- gelher in complete harmony. Ran- dall could always be depended on in an emergency. A. B. Bishop was class pot of '85 and contributed freely. He was a poet of no mean ability. · The year '84-'85 saw the resigna- tion as President of Union of Dr. Potter. Joudge J. S. Landon acted as president ad interim through 18&5. This period saw, also, the pass- Ing of Professors Price and Haw- ley. The last number of Volume Vli shows James Stoller as Pipe of Peace Orator and Dow Beek- man as Historian. J. T. M01 ey, '85. 1886 87 My recollection of - my editor-in-chiefship of The Concordiensis is that I took myself mighty seriously, thinking that its success rested on my shoulders for the time being. This led me to lock horns with an as- sedate editor whose copy I re· jected- he claimed the right to have his matter published and took the matter before the student body 1t a meeting in the Chapel and during the debate I resigned. Later this gentleman entered the min- istry and became rather noted as a preacher and lecturer-which I take it proves that I used poor judgment in r·epecting his writings but I claim that I atoned for that when I removed myself from the leadership and I hope history will allow my claim. With best wishes for the success of The Concordiensis as well as for you severally and collectively, . I am. Edward D. Very, '87. 1887 88 I think it was in • 1886 that I was Editor in Chief of The Concordiensis. I remember it was published ten months in the year. Also as I re- member it, there appeared in each issue two articles by eminent graduates, and we also had a spe- cial department for the library. I think this would be a good feature at this time. It did not occur to us that The Concordiensis would ever get to 'he point where it would be Issued twice each week and become solely a news organ. I congratulate the College, The Concordiensis and Its editors upon the paper as it now exists. It is a real credit to all. H. C. Mandeville, '88 1893 94 I do not know why I - was honored by being made an Editor of The Concordlen- sls. I do know that it was one of the highlights of my experiences :.t old Union. I ha:ve fond memories of the four years I spent in those revered gray walls and on that campus, whereon so many men of honor and distinction have tt·od. Again and again I have liced in resttospect the days when my loyal board of editors and that good right-arm, my business manager, H. L. Baggerly, worked so faith- fully and untiringly to make suc- cessful our efforts to maintain, if not sui pass p1 evious records. I am proud to have had a share in contr·ibuting to the success of The Concordiensis. one of the out- standing college pape1s past and present. My hat is off to those who have in successive years carried on. Ashley J. B1aman, '94 1895 9 1! A congratulatory • U line to The Cbncord- iensis on its sixtieth bil thday. If it is in orde1· to make a sug- gestion, it would be along the fol- lowing lines: In the days of the nineties I do think the old \Con- cordy\ gave the boys more inti- mate heart to heart, elbow to elbow news, or I might say it was more of a \home town\ paper than you are publishing today; and in a col- lege the size of Union I believe the boys want to know what is going on personally and socially on the campus, with a bit of gossip th1 own in now and then for a relish. ' h · 1' f 11 yt'ng out the copy, which meant t~e ip. s .Jn ~ d b p>tutograp er· m 1eu· o Is, pa h the s 1 ·mn!e Initial \C\, followe Y h hi d tl t d a the ml .ddle ·of the night .fro.J:Il. t e • ca:s for :s a ver semen , an s· ~he class· numerals \'10.\ I am quite t hi h Sou ht to. t'n cam·pus down to the Gazette· office.: - th 'a ·cus om w c we g · -, .::ertain, however, that its au or augurate, but which our successors, where the printing was done. \'\~ Sam Cavert, who was later to tl f 'l d t late Wiuhing you the be::~~ of good .. ~~ . apvaten y a1 e o emu · : ~ become ·one of Unimi's sons. distln- I look back upon the •training I fortune, I am . ·o~ . 'ut'shed 1 ·n the ministry. d I · C d' ' Albert H. White, ,. receive · n a year as a oncor 1en- . \'This article was in the Form of a .,is Feporter and two years as its everie. Its author drifted back in Editor as an e<eperience .which has: }· 9 0 7 •. ~8 I wonder wlletller: nemmy to the early days of the been extremely valuable to me in a: \1 there is any essential · ;allege under Dr. Nott. \Then he busine~s career of thirty-seven difference between the Concordien- Jontinues: \I thought of what ·a .r·eazs, most of it in the field •Of sis of thirty years ago and thoe Con- pioneer Union College had been: w·ntin~. Durin~ that time I have:, cordiensis of today. In lookln;g over rhe first college in America found- .;een like expene_nce_ on ~he pa:t of my cherished files of 1907 and 1908, ed on a non-sectarian yet Christian .nany others capitaliZed tn ·business , I am Impressed by at least one• basis, and that, too, at a time when .1.nd pt•ofessiona~ careers, and I can,, striking .similarity. In .a rt;minis- infidelity on the one hand and de- thet efore, heartily recommend such. cent number you are going to recall nominational bigotry on the other training . ~ 0 undergrad1:1at~s who the experiences of editors .of by-' ran rampant; the first college to have a ltkmg for, or s~nll m, su.ch gone years. In March, 190&., that, receive a charter from the Regents work, as an extra-curncul:ar actw-, same Idea found partial ex:pression.· of the University ·of New York .ty of gr~at value. . , My connection with the Coocordy: State; the first to establish a school My smcere congratulations .to started in freshman days,. wben; of science as a separate depart• you a~d to t_hos~ ~ho will follow:. Dan Imrie, '05, then Its editor-, gave: ment· the first to gi:ve modern Ian- you. m _ ~amtammg The Con-. me assignments as a general 1·e-· guag~s a place in the curriculum. , cordte.nsis 1~ the forefront of col- , porter. I set·:ved .successively under. \My thoughts wandered to those ege JOurnah_s~. , Stub Ellenwood, '06, and· Bert who had lived on this Campus and Phtllp L. Thomson, 00 · White '07. had loved it. I thought of the old Among Union's less-widely- pub- faculty members: of Laurens P. 1900 1\} The Concordy under licized tuditions is that of a. hter- Hickok, a scholar of world-wicle ·U my supervision got off · ary magazine called the '\Ph.arthe- reputation, known as \The Prince to a very bad start. \Bobby\ Rob-; non,\ the first number of whl~h ~p-: of American Metaphysicians; of inson, Its manager, had the first peared in November, 1832. Dunng Tayler Lewis, greatest linguist and two issues printed out of :town .• uur sojourn in college, it see10ed as scholar of his day, in whose frail As we had no opportunity to cor· if we had been drifting too decld-, body resided such a mighty mind; reet proof, the results were appall-· edly toward the materialistic and; of William Gillespie, a leader in the ing. Dr. Raymond promptly put his away from the classical. Hor<les .. of' world of engineering; of Professors foot down, much to my satisfac-. mathematical-minded eng!neer1ng (Continued on Page liJ) tion, and the typography there• :students with their desire to meas-· ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ffi after wa.s subject to little ct~iticism. ure hurnan affairs by the sli<ierule,, I• ----- --- -- ---- --- The greatest trouble in my day T-square and theodolite ha.d lit. was to get any assistance from the· seemed to us) caused a gener·at de-· assistant editors. This generally re- · viatlon from the older paths of mlted In the editor writing the en- . academic higher education, For the lssuse, and he always had the. some time, the student editors of: job of correcting proof. My only the Concordy representing the non- industrious assistant was Jolm D. engineering minority, consadered Guthrie and I appointed him my doing se>mething about it. (If edi-. · successor by the strong arm method tors don't do something about of personal designation without something they are always. un- consulation with the authorities happy.) who were supposed to have charge The classical tradition and tile of the matter. Parthenon tradition, it seem.ed .to Porter L. Merriman, '01. ·the editors, fitted together perfectly. 1903 ~4 I am grateful for ·V letter. May I extend my sincere congratulations to The Concordiensis on achieving Its sixtieth birthday. Sincerely, Archibald Rutledge, '04 Why not, we argued, revive the Parthenon ideals? UnaniJDou::~ly agreeing that in this way co1Lld we best save the college, an editorial appeal was published. In part, it said: CONCORDIENSIS began its journalistic career sixty years ago • This Mutual SAVINGS BANK was established nearly I 04 years ago. My very best wishes to you ali 1905 oc When 1 was editor for continued success. • U of the \Concordy\ in \As a q~onument to the older period, the Parthenon was one of the most successful maga- zines o£ lts day, and was widely read. Its successor, The 'Con- cordiensis, is, like the majo:rity of its contemporaries, valuable only a.s a recorder of passing events, Still, to some extent, it is supposed to inherit tbe old litera1y spirit of the Pai·thelllon. To create an atmosphere as nearly like that of the early period as possible, T1le C'on- cordiensis will appear 8.'l a Par- thenon Number on March four- teenth.\ Today it extends ~earty congratulations to CONCORDIENSIS and, to its many subscrib- ers, offers this salient ad- Major Allan Twyford, '96 1905-06, it was a weekly publication; _ ___ at times, I confess, \weakly\ would 1898 99 When I read The also b<: a fair desci'iption. I have - Concordiense:> of today, been 1?-terested and pleased to I feel as if I had been born thirty I watch rts development since !;ben years too noon. The piesent papet· and f~el that changes m~de smce is newsy, ft esh and breezy. In my that t1me have definitely tmproved day The Concurdiensis wa~ quite lts field of usefulness. With the dignified in :size and style. Profes- ~rowd~h of.~he cfo.ll~ge atnd t~teh~r~~- o Truax and Hale were our mg tver:st y o m eres s Wl In. e s rst college, Its more frequent publtca- men ors. 1 - h b 11 · t'ft d' I am grateful to have an oppor- Ion . as een w~ JUS I e . tunity to confess that my experi- . Wtth best Wishes for the con- ences in reporting the news of the tmued success of your Board and social intellectual and athletic ac- those who folloW: you. _ , tivities of the college have helped Dame! F. Imue, 06. vice: Put Your Savings in a SAVINGS Bank SCHENECTADY SAVINGS BANK much to keep my interest centered on the college. The intimate friend- ships with faculty and studen·ts are :1 che1 ished memory. 1906 07 After all these years • Concordy Is somewhat Followed, then, an appeal to alumni, faculty members and u.nder- graduates for literary contributions. There responded one faculty m~em­ ber, three alumni, and five u:mder- graduates. Where Clinton Crosses State My home has a Union College room. The walls are covered with pictures of the buildings of my day and of class reunions. So the col- lege is a part of my daily life and in spirit I commune frequently with the members of the faculty of that time. George C. Rowell, '99 1899 00 Your letter of Octo- - · ber 21st is a pleasant reminder of my three years as a member of The Concordiensis staff, and, while you are good enough to invite reminiscences from me as one of the editors who served dur- ing the magazine's long life of 60 years, I am loath to take advantage of the opportunity thus presented. Even if only 50% of those 60 editors are still living, I hesitate to think how much space would be occupied if 30 such reminiscences were laid end to end. Indeed, I am afraid any of your readers who are patient enough to find their way through such a mass of his- torical data might be ready to rec- ommend that the best thing that could happen to the aforesaid sur- :viving editors would be to lay them end to end, and call it a day. May I, therefor·e, in the exercise of a modicum of self-restrain re- fer your 1 eaders to the picture of the editorial board in 1900, which ha~y in my memory. Of course, Most of the five contrib~tlolls from the undergraduates were LEGITIMATE PLAYS ~PRESENTED IN SCHENE·CTADY and ALBANY Frederick Ca[vin and Beauvais Fox, Managers, Announce That the Noted Broadway Company THE EMP.IRE PLAYERS will henceforth open its weekly Broa.dway Hits Thursdays, at the ERIE THEATRE, Schenectady Playing thru Friday and Saturday matinee arrd evening. Mondays, at the CAPITOL THEATRE, Albany Playing thru Tuesday and Wednesday matinee and evening. Robert Sherwood's Pulitzer Prize Winner and the New York Theatre Guild's Smash Hit Playing in SCHENECTADY: thru SC)turday night, November 6 Playing in ALBANY: Mon., Tues., Wed., mat. and eve., Nov~ 8 thru 10 Congratulations To-- ••cRIMINAL The THE CONCORDIENSIS ON SIXTY YEARS OF WORTHWHILE SERVICE Graduate Council AND The Union Alumni Monthly AT A Scotland Yard Mystery. by E?gar Wallace, Greatest Detective Story Wnter Smce Conan Oo.yle atERIETHEATRE,SCHENECTADY:Thurs., Fri.,Sa.t.,.mat.andeve.,Nov.ll, 12,13 at CAPITOL THEATRE, ALBANY: Mon., Tues., Wed.,;rnat. and eve., Nov. 15, 16, 17 TICKETS (tax included)-Nights, ~+ 8:30: 55c, 85c and $1.10 Wednesday ancl Saturday Matinees. at 1:30: SSe and SSe Special Discount to Union College StuJents and F acuity: 85c seats for 65c: $1.1 0 seats for 85c. Plea:Se 'Bring Identification. Se-nio1 Clas.s Also ( 1938 AI! Haw IE Fi Hawkes, Chairn Of Thm•sda Day, '38, the Senic William f time ·elect offi,Ce/-'S a' 'Treasurer Seoretary. The vot daily l;l.SS fel'entfl'(l l fleers be tVtelve m• the surpri week. Th• election v second, 'Y A total ·out of a At the Wold, '3~ student c caused · Edward J Willian: erick B.: of '38, w• vice-chair Terrace society, nesday b: nett, co- tlvities. nounced Committe den as it The re mlttee m organizat nary pl; chosen c South Or ber of S hockey e year ·anc hockey. Mounteb Union C tion. Hawke many c: mer's in< cr.oss-cot ship in Student Society, among taincy o: is· team: Student prom co Seco D; Tea D: I A teE Faculty Pyraml• neutral! Hanna the Roc This affairs ship of several neutral these : after tt K. Bas Pyraml Fran: themu will re] row. T dance this afJ petus t the Alt J The will he even in eronea and D; of the Doris falo; Helen pie, F ;Marys Unive1 maine Wome Chase Betty for W ley; (!, Betty Drape l!am, Alsc Vict01 Sweet Moun· Bryn State 'nice •(

·ced from Concordy nt ·dism!s- :ves men- It \.is pre- •rint over nciwed by :am quite ts author .s later to ms distin- form of a d back in ys of the Then,\ he f what a •ad been; \ca found- Christian ime when d\ and de- the other college to e Regents ew York 1 a school e depart• 1dern lan- \·iculum. I to those tnpus and •f the old Lurens P. •orld-wide !Je Prince Jians; Of guist and hose frail 1ty mind; jer in the 'J.•ofessors l(J) s ;tic go K 1rly arty s ;crib- r ad- s nk s State Seniors ·Elect D_ay Cla.ss President; Also Other Olficers 1938 Also Chooses Hawke.s, Hawley, Ladd; Wold to FiU Council Post Borden Prom Chairman Hawkes, Hawley Also Chosen Chairman, Vice-Chairman Of Terrace Council Thm:sday, t-Tov. 4. Winterton U. N ntt iElttt Day, '38, was >!lee ted'. president of 'the Senior •Class · .this morning. William Hawkes was ii.t' the same time elected vice president; othei off~cers aJ;e •. F~~d~_i;,ic_k., . .fl. ~wl~y, · · Tr~asurer, artd Floyd v. Lactd, Seoretary. · The vptii!g took place in today's daily s.ssemb!y pe~·iod. The pre- ferential system was U!>ed, .tll,e of- · fipers being selected from the · twelve ·men who polled highest in the .surprtse nomination ballot last weel1::. The highest m.an in today's · election was harned pr-esident, thll second, -vice-president, and. so o1.. A total of 8\6 votes were ca,st, \out of a senior enrollment of 150. · ·At the same election John S. Wold, '38; \was appointed to the Student Council to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation .of Edward Barry, '38. William H. Hawkes and Fred- erick B. Hawley, both or the class of '38,. were elected chaidnan arnd vice-chairman, respectively, of the Terrace Council, senior honorary society, it was announced Wed- nesday by Professor William Ben- nett, co-ordinator of student ac- tivities. Dr. Bennett also a;n- nounced that the Junior Prom Committee had elected Albert Bor- den as its chairman. · The recently elected prom com- mittee met yesterday to discuss th\ organization and to outline prelimi- nary plans. Borden, the newly · chosen chairman, is a resident of South Orange, N. J., and is a mem- ber of Sigma Phi. He played both hockey and lacrosse his freshman year -and has since played varsity hockey. He is a membe1• of the Mountebanks, the choir, and the U11ion College Christian Associa- tion. Hawkes and Hawley both have many campus activities; the for- mer's includes the captaincy of the cross-country .team and member- ship in the Terrace Council, the Student Council, the Spiked Shoe Society, and Psi Upsilon; while among the latter's are the cap- taincy of both the hockey and ten- is teams, and membership in the Student Council, the choir, the 1938 prom committee and to Chi Psi. ----0•---- Second Neutral Dance Tomorrow Tea Dance Open to All Non- Fl·atemity Men In Hanna Hall A tea dance sponsored by the Faculty Women's Club and the Pyramid Club for the benefit of neutrals will be held tomorrow In Hanna Hall at 4:30 p. m. following the Rochester football game. This will be the second of these affairs and is under the chai·rman• ship of John Bigwood •ag and his several committees composed of neutral undergraduates. The first of these social functions was held after the R. F. I. game and Vilmar K. Bose, former president of the Pyramid Club, was In charge. Ra<vaged now each airy arm, Fallen c<V'ry resting leaf, Rotted, mortldy each old charm, Desolate with gra<Verz (Jriej, Just the trunk slandr up alo11e, N O'Vi that death has come at last, Stiff and barretz, but the throne 0 j the unforqotten past. ~H. M.S. College Welfomes Numerous Guests Unusual Activity to Follow Rocheste1· Game, With Many Dances Scheduled The alumni, returning h<>me for College Week-end which starts to- day, will be entertained by an un- usually active carnpus. The program for the Alumni in- cludes visit to classes and l3!bOI a- tory sections today, followed by dinnm· in Hale House. The fall meeting of the Graduate Council takes place on Sat\!,l'day morning at 10:2{) in the Trophy Room of the Gymnasium, after which the Coun- cil will be host to all alumni and friend's of the college at a buffet lunch served in Silliman Hall. The Alpha Delta Phi and Sigma Phi fraternities will hold a joint buffet dinner, tea dance and formal dance this afternoon and tonight. The tea dance will ta.ke place at the Sigma Phi House from 4 :30 until 6:30 o'clock, the buffet di1mer at the Alpha Delta Phi fraternity and the formal dance at Sigma Phi from nine o'cloclt until m.idnight. Music will be furnished by Jaclc Lanny and his orchestra. Chaperones will be Dr. and Mrs. DiXon Ryan Fox, Dr. and Mrs. H. Laurence Achilles, Dr. and Mrs. Frank Vander Bogert, Mr. and Mrs. J. Russell Hartman, Mr. and Mrs. Cat!' Wagoner, Mr. and Mrs. C. L. Patterson, Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Pal~ner. Guests of the Sigma Phi frater- nity will be the Misses Adelaide TOWllsend, Sue B()ulecue, Jocelyn THE CONOORDIENSIS, FRiDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1937 Frank Pa,rker Day After f;he Union College Glee Club will sing some of Dr. Day's favorite songs tomorrow morning in daily assembly, 'J,'hoodore V. w. Anthony, '96, in behalf of iellow alumni and friends of the former president of Union College, will .present a portrait of Frank Parker Day to t11e College. President Dixon Ryan Fox will accept the gift for the college at the principal public ceremony marking the annual homecoming weekend for Union alumni. In this act is symbolized the great love which Unicm alumni have for .the great Canadian soldier, teacher and Wl'iter who led the affairs of the college from November 1928 until illness compelled him to resign in the sununer of 1938. Dr. Day i!l still convalescing at his home in Nova Scotia from the complications of wounds be sustained while commanding with distinction tke 25th Nova Scotia Battalion overseas druing the four years of the World War. The portrait is the work of E. L. Ipsen, •D.oted· artist of New Yorlt City who painted it this summer at Dr. Day's home. Student Council Sanctions Dance To Be Held Interfrater.nity Night -----\~ ~·---------------------------- Wednesday, Nov. 3-With view to week by David L. Y.unich '39, a promoting social life of the campus member of the Student Council' more on an all-college basis, the who felt the need for more all-col- Union College Student Council to lege dances, rather than only the night voted to sanction a formal annual JunioJ.• Prom affair. Sane- dane eon November 24 in Alumni tion by the Admin.istration was Gymnasium, as a substitute for the given for the night of November 24, various fraternity dances Interfra- the regular time of the Interfrater- ternity Night.. nity gatherings, a date set aside by At meetings held Tuesday night the coll.ege. and Wednesday afternoon, frater- The dance will be less elaborate nity and non-fraternity chairmen than the Pr1>m. There will be no strongly favored such a proposal. charge for booths but each frater- Harringtan, Polly White and Flor- ence Snyder of V:assar; Janet AWl- tin, Haroldi.ne Donahue and Lynn Wolfe of .Smith; Helen Wallace, Marion Cronenweth and Kay Rath- bun of Skidmore; Madeline Bing- ham, Katherine Gibbs; Joyce Pat- terson, Simmons; Gene Rankin, Utica; Edith Clarke and Betty Weaver of Utica; Jean Hobbs, King's Lynd, England and Charlotte Ochs, Kalamazoo, Michigan. . Alpha Delta Phi fraternity guests will be the Misses Bettie MacDon- ald and Martha Mariner of New York City; Jane Bishop, Wellesley; Clara Stetson, Hingham, Mass.; Helen :Muller, Margaret Gouinlock, Lenore Hurth and Ann Delaney of Skidmore; .Jean Eggston arid Helen Brush of Vassar; Margaret Houck and Priscilla Rice of Schenectady; Patricia Wood, Glen Ridge, N. J.; Lillian Larsen, Hartsdale; Lucia Dana, Scarsdale; Julia Corscaden, Englewood, N. J.; Mary Ellen Pal- mer, Boaton, Mass. and Lucy_ Temp- line, Tamagami, Ontario, :Oeita Phi Cynthia. Abbot, Winifred Adams, Alice Reynolds, Constance Ric.,, Lela Rockefeller, and Katherine Sawyer, Schenectady. Miriam Luf- barrow, Jean Sommersgil, Sl!;id- more. Jean Cochburn, Patricia Peebles, and Shirley Sprung, Am- sterdam. Janet Gurney, Scotia. Jean Perry and Mary Nealon, Al- bany. Betty Strait, and Jean Du- senberry, Middlebury College. Jane Noyes, Scarsdale, N. Y. Dorothy Wike, Endicott. Betty Naramore and Katherine Gibbs, Boston. Cath- The idea was first brought up last nity will have its furniture and fra- ternity banners there, lined up in an oval shape around the floor w:ith Thanksgiving decorations. The dance, from 10 until 2 o'clock, will cost $1.50 per couple with a pop- ular orchestra, as yet unselected, playing. \It is a well-known fact that Union has gr·eat need of more all· college dances,\ Yunich stated in an interview. \This will be within e:veryone's means and can be made the starting point for simila1·. dances. Here is the chance to bring together the students of the college more often, helping to eliminate the group feeling. Here is the chance to make Union what its name im- plies.'' It was pointed out that individual dances on previous Inter~fraternity Nights were unsuccessful. By band- ing together, there are enough who stay at the college to make such a dance successful. There may be more like tll.is one, po.ssibly dances after basketball games and other functions. erine KneiJ>, Manliattansvme Col- lege. Daphne Smith, St. Agnes School. Ge11evieve Bryan, Toronto. Chaperones: Mr. and Mrs. Ferdi- nand Helm and Dr .. and Mrs. Ever- ett Thatcher. Obi Psi Lodge Marion Carlson, Helen Chandler, Josephine Lahr, Edith Miller, Lu- cile Nicolls, Margaret Orr, Dorothy Rose, Jane Hitchcock, Betty Stllz, Barbara Sylvester, and Doris Young, Skidmore. Betty Cargill, Binghamton. Mary Hurley, Long- (Continued on Page 12) German Student Here Hans Munzer, German-J·ewish ; student who is being sponsored •: with twelve other young men from ' Germany -in va!'ious colleges and universities in America by the Phi Sigma Delta fraternity, arrived on . the campus Wednesday morning. He is new l'esiding at the chap- ter house of .Ph1 Sigma Delta, and will begin his delayed studies un- der Dr. George H. Danton and in the Social Studies department im- mediately. Granted a two-year scholarship by the college and given all facilities by the fraternity which is supporting him here, Mr. Munzer will specialize in the field of economics, a1though he will de- vote much of his time assisting Dr. Danton. in conversation classes in German. ----o---- Hamilton Jinx May Come Again Bronner Presages Buff and Blne May Hex Union Next Week The famous \Hamilton Jinx\ may be starting again, said Dr. Fred- erick J.,. Bronner, head of the So- cial Studies Division, in Daily As- sembly this morning. The \Hamilton Jinx,\ said Dr. Bronner, is the inability of Union teams to beat Hamilton on its own field. The jinx is a well-known fact. From 1898 to 1903, a period of twenty-four years, not a s·ingle game was taken by Union on the Hamilton field, no matter how close the game or how powerful the team. In 1915, for examplE., the Union team, led by \Rosecrans of the educated toe,\ famous kicker, had forced its way to the Hamil- ton 12-yard line, and was preparing to kick when the gun ended the game. In 1921, when the Hamiltor. team was so weak that it lost every preVious game, Union lost to Hamilton by a score of 7-0. \Steuben Field,\ said Dr. Bron- ner, \is worth at least fifteen points to Hamilton. It is the worst mess of clay this side of the Mississippi.'' The hill that leads to the campus may also have something to do with the jinx, for the visiting team is forced to walk up its \horrible\ slopes. \Yet the remembrance o\f things past still stirs the old alumni in early November, and they ask, 'What about Hamilton?' They know that past performances count fDI nothing, they know that six years have gone by without a Victory there--is the jinx starting again? \Yet paradoxical as it may seem, as they recall the days of their youth and the excitement en- gendered by the Hamilton Jinx, if you must lose, there is no one they would rather see beat you than Hamilton.\ Frank Flemming, who provided the music at the first social session, will repeat his :performance tomor- row. The same success as the first dance enjoyed is anticipated since this affair will be given added Im- petus by the fa.ct that it is part of the Alumni Week-end program. .ALL HAIL TO ROCHESTER I Beta Theta PI Guests The Beta Theta Pi Fraternity will hold: a formal dance Saturday evening from 9 to 12. The chap- erone9 will ·be Dr. and Mrs. Scott and Dr, and Mn. O'Rourke. Guests of the fraternity will be the Misses Paris Prichard, University of Buf- falo; Louise Smith, Skidmore; Helen Irish, Wellesley; Jane Gilles- pie, Firtch School; Emile Watson, ;Marysville College; Mary Watson, University of Vermont; Nancy Tre- maine, Connectiilut College for Women; Patricia Krouse, Chevy Chase; Peggy Briggs, Schenectady; Betty Andrew, Connecticut College for Women; Jane Fenton, Welles- ley; Margaret ·Sogge, Sweet Briar; • Betty King, Skidmore; Eleanor Draper, Bennington; and Fay Wil- liam, Vassar. Also Betty Tennah, Bryn Mawr; Victoria .Mien, Smith; Murial Sweet, Russell Sage; Shirley Fleck; Mount Holyoke; J'?-net ~ulison. Bryn Mawr; Helen. Moore, :Albany State Teacher~s College; and Eu- nice ·Gour, WUsrm. Page Three Union Plays La.st Home Gaime With Rochester Saturday Three Garnet .Seniors Will See Action on Alexander Field for Last Time Dutchmen Favored Yellowjackets Have Lost All Games So Far This Year; 34th Game W.ith Union By DAVD B. MLLER The curtain will be rung down on the current local football sit- nation tomorrow afternoon when the Yellowjackets of Rochester storm Alexander Field to engage Union in the 34th game of a 4&- year-old series. The upstate boys •have a two-fold accomplishment to ·achieve in _the game on Saturday, for they Will not only be seeking · their first victory of the present season, but they also will be hop- ing to break the deadlock of 15 games for Rochester, 15 games for .Union, which now stands as the rec- ord of the two teams over the years if rivalry. Three games have been tied. A large gathering, augmented by dance-weekend guests, is e&:- pected to completely jam the fo\lr sides of the field and give the home team abundant support for its final home game. Three seniors, two of them reg- ulars, will be giving the.!r last home performances for their Alma Mater. Van Ladd, Union's nomination for All-America place-kicking honors, and Bill Ladue, brilliant lineman, will be two tackles hard to re- place next year, as will be Bud Freihofer, hefty reserve end. The two former are heavily counted upon to give more-than-satisfactory accounts in their swan song t.o Schenectady football, and Frei- hofer will undoubtedly get into the fray. Rochester possesses one of those teams which always does just the opposite of what is expected. Start- ing the new year with a brand new coach, a new system and new spirit, the eleven immediately proceeded to set up the imposing record of dropping its first five games, most of them by impressive scores. N1>w the iBsue has &ettled upon the Union game in which the Kodak- men will do or die, and we hope, the latter. There apparently is no explainable reason for the River- men's dismal showing. It is jilst one of those things which cannot he fathomed definitely, but which may suddenly change overnight to put the team in its stride. Roches- ter has pulled many an upset in past year and the time is again ripe for the golden egg to be la.id. Coach Bill Co&: has a couple of neat guards among his abundant material, as well as a backfield which is capable of pulling many a fancy stunt, so we may expect any kind of a game. Neuman and Balonek are the to-be-feared line- man, while the backfield is made up of a quartet of speedy men- Dolke, Boucher, Gersbach and Gl!ottone. Nitchman, after laying off his (Continued on Page 4) ----0•---- Denzler Heads New Fraternity Council Name Constitution Committee As Group Is Revived; Shepard Secretary Tuesday, Nov. 2-Nineteen dele- gates, representing all the fraterni- ties at Union, met this evening and formed a new inter-fraternity council. Robert C. Denzler, '38, of l'heta Delta Chi, was elected ~hairman, and Robert Shephard, 38, of Alpha Delta Phi, secret.ary. The council appointed a com- mittee of eight to draw up a con- stitution and a program of act-ivity for submission to the council. The committee inc! udes the following • William H. Hawkes, '38, Psi Up- ~ilon; Winte1ton U. Day, '38, Phi Delta Theta; Frank Van Dyke, '38 Phi Sigma Kappa; Carl R. Trah~ man, '38, Kappa Sigma; Edson V. S. Dl\aper '38, Chi Psi; Grant Smith '38, Beta Theta Pi; Louis Thomp; son, '38, Lambda Chi Alpha- Alfred Seigle, '3-8, Kappa Nu. ' The Student Council initiated the movement for the formation of an interfraternity council, feeling that present conditions warranted such action. An iriter-fratemlty council formerly existed here but was disbanded in 1934 due to lack of interest. Other delegates to the council from the fraternities include: Lon H. Barringer, '39, Sigma Chi; (}eorge Doyle, '38, Delta Phi; HoWal'd Sands, '39, Phi Gamma \Delta; Edward Barry,. '38, l;)elta ()'psilcn; Frank Frehofm·. '38, ·Sigma Phi; Stanley Kollin, '38, Phi Sigma Delta; A1·thur Lawrence, '88, R:appa Alpha; Ralph Pearse, '38, Theta Nu Epsilon; and Howard · Vfl.n Keu1·en, '40, Pelta Chi.

Page Four La1·ge Crowd Expected to See Union Gridders Triumph Over Yellow jacl•ets (Continued from Page 3) men over Election Day, huddled them again on WednPsday to run through a brisk Rrrimmage with the freshmen. With the yearlings prancing th1ough the fancy steps of the Yellowjacltets, using Rochester plays and AFt Lawrence in the backfield, a ~Iimmer of the ·natur'e of the ensuing game was gained. The Rochrster offemP, which seemed to consist chiefly of a com- I plicated seriea of shifts, did not click so well for the fre!Ohman,j who, although piling up a few first 1 downs, on the whole got the worst of the punishment. Nitchman un- earthed a couple of new play~. Hammerstrom threw a couple of j sweet pa.sses, Thomas and Broclt- myer got together for a lateral which went for a touchdown, and that was the total action of the scrimmage. The team was called out again on Thursday for a ,;tiff session and is now at home praying for anything but rain. Lewis and Busino or Mulcare will flank the line, Ladd and Ladue will fill tackle shot's, Irish and Mul- '1 care or Lynn will be at guat d and Stubby Adams will do the center I flipping. Amazon is still the quar- terback choice and the remaining three are Brockme~·er, Thomas and Hammerstrom. Dennett and Patrie . may also see action although de- fense mechanism is not at its best unless the veterans are perform- ing. It is a safe guess that most of the team will get a bit of play- ing time to thf>ir· credit, for there has not yet been a game when all 23 have been on the substitution list. However, .<ideline quarterbacks have no place in predicting foot- ball tactics, so we will retract our statement to a hope that they all will play. The lineup: Union Rochester LE Lewis • .. .. . . . . .. .. . .. Oliver LT Ladd ................. Jones LG Irish .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . Neuman C Adams . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Martin RG Mulcare . . . . . . . . . . . . Balonek RT Ladue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dunstan RE Buslno . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stugis QB Amazon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dolke HB Thomas .. \ . . . . . . . . Boucher HB Brockmyer .. , . . . . . Gersbach FB Hammerstrom . . . . . Gllottone Three of l\nion's doughty linesmen are scheduled for their last intercol- legiate game tomorrow-Ladd and La-· due, tackels, and Freihofer, end. THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 5,.1937 ~ 17 Men Answer Call For Basketball Candidates The first call for can.didates for the Union l!f37-1938 varsity basket- ball squad brought out 17 men to the first official practice session on Tuesday of this week. Six veterans of formet· Garnet fives turned out and 11 new men. Practice will start each afternoon at 2 o'clock. Until the football sea- son is over Captain Smith will assist Coach Nitchman. Candidates reporting included veterans Captain Grant Smith, John Schultz, Cha!'les Wiberley, David Miller, George Doyle, and Frank Myers. The other men who ·urned out were Leonard Schult7 Robert Hanson, Norman Dietrich, \Red\ O'Brien, Herbert Watson, Hudson Tanner, Merlin Fay, George Miller, Harry Palmer, Joseph Annese, and Louis Carr. AMERICAN A-1 LAUNDRY The Most Perfect Laundry Work in the Capital District Ph. 4·3166 1030 Barrett St. Hope to Repeat Last Y ea1·'s Win on Vermont Course Tomorrow Afternoon Under the guidance of Coach Joseph Wheatley, the swimmiag squad, which has been wol'iting out .fol' a month, is rounding out into a well developed squad. There are With his squad in perfect physl- about twenty-five working otlt reg~­ cal condition Coach Ketz .[s con- larly In the pool. fident of victory as the varsity With on'ly a few veterans as· a haniers face Middlebury tomorrow ·nucleus, Coach Wheatley is banlt- over the Panther's course. Although ing heavily on· his sophomore t:ank· the mountaineers course Is five· men wh() Will form the backboo.e miles long and contains several of the squad. Thus far conditionln.g steep hills their record to date Is has been emphasized to a g:reat unimpressive, having lost to both evxtent. - - · -- ~-- ~ R. P. I. and Williams. In the meet Two sophomores, Charles Passe last year the Garnet triumphed by and Burdick Britti11 are sure of a perfect score. places on the squad. Passe wfll Led by Captain Bill :fiawkes who compete in the 220 yard dash an.d 440 yard dash while Brittin will be won his fourth consecutive victory entered in the 50 and 100 Yat\d of tlce season the varsity harriers dashes. down.ed the Lavender of C. C. N. Y. George Hart, Mills, and Rein· over· Union course Saturday by a hardt are battling it out for tb.e• score of 16-39. This marked the · sther positions in the 220 and 44(), Reinhardt is a Yeteran o:f last last appearance of the hlll and year's team, but he is hard pres~ed· dalers here this year as their re- by Mills who has been sbowtn.g maining meets with Middlebury .great improvement. and Colgate are both away. Dave Wilder, Denick, Paul A strong wind prevented any Teare, and DeWitt are trying out · · d b k' ti for the short dashes. possrbillty of recor rea mg me The breast stroke will be handled· but Hawkes did manage to ·do the distance in the good time .of 26:46.5 by Captain Gordon. Jack Wrigh.t, which is 31.5 seconds slower· than a newcomer to the squad, look::s his course record ,set last year. He like a certain runner up to Gordon was followed over the line by in this event. · Paul Santoro, sophomore ace, who The backstroke department is at finished thirteen seconds later. Ed this time the wealtest one. Bot.l!' Wells and Bill Johnson werE! the Faelton and Moulton who swar:n third and fourth men to cross the the backstroke last year wel\e line for Union . graduated, and this event must. l>e Spaner of c. c. N. Y. squad raced filled with inexpex•ienced men. to a close finish with Melewltz and Frank Dunnigan and Mills al\e just nosed out the garnet sopho- competing for this position. · more to prevent a perfect score. Harry Myers is again the spring- All Union Meets At the··· ACME BARBER 509 UNION ST. NEAREST THE CAMPUS board artist. Leo Minkin, who is also out for divln!l', has possibili- ties but Jacks experience. The first meet is with Trinity, and hopes are high for the first Union swimming victory in over two years.. If the sophomores benefit by the Hmg pre-season training, Union should at least make a fight out of every meet. Hundreds of New· Sl L K TIES 55c 2 for $7.00 Hand tailored of lovely silks, they are ava.Uable in dozens of striped, plaid, paisley, spaced print and all- over prints. -Barneys Street Floor 5 If you are the Host : = ;;; or the honored guest = = = = = = = certain enioyable events are expected to make up = the College Weekend • • • • one of the most important is a visit to : = = the ~ ~ = = = ~ = ;;;;a- = = == VAN CURLER ; = ;;;;;;;;· = ~ TAP ROOM ! = = !'§§ = = ~ = a Base b. Was 1 This resu ·R.t Union b.:Y The G .era.tion wi1 d .. epartment •CSS of mak voey of ooU ,mcomplete view will 1 lcng and .Union's atl Editor. 'Baseball According baseball w: sport at U: tb.at it was 1860. The f fi>r the me nine from · It was a f until aroun• be pla,yed a spring. Uni ;baseball ga C<lllege in :l ning, 14-13. to have bej ruption. :&oa.ting Ohronolol o:nd place ir available < dates from eral of the tained creVI Phi and ~ boathouse Boating II height of it Ul75 for a that year • a. day anc races with 1877 rowinJ cline and ~ sue of Th vember of the financi lege at a 1: it could n< the boath felt that Vl'as impro of 1871 Tl an article boating at general in Union 1 sponsored program : cause the from that corded in letic Regil by the F the sprin~ in the libi .et down ;;tate int~ with priv: contest w Ri:ll.e Shoc There VI lng team 1879 ther• feat of th Edward~ 4. In Ma~ was cone rifle squa College. l of a po: 200 score Tennis Lawn parativel~ mention April Co sport, ho in the '9( try like · Football AlthOUJ legiate fc the clas ries was teams u played t string VI R

~aily ~tley who is possiblli- Trinity, the first In over •homo res ~e-season at least meet. ' ~ew· >vely e in •laid, 1 all- i'loor THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1937 Baseball, Which Sta·rted in In the Showers INTRAMURALS Page Five lege added three points Wednesday to the 22 it had garnered last week TRACK MEET RESULTS and finished up in first place, lead- Pcints ing Kappa 'Sigma by five points. Was First Organized ·Union 1860, Sport by O.A.RL R. TRAHM.A.N Group Seored Brockner of Phi Delta Theta made ' N t c 11 25 ·the winning jump, Morris of Kappa ' or h 0 ege ' · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Alpha was second, and Wilson of This resume of organized aport l.!:============================::!;l; Kappa Sigma. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Delta Phi was third. ·!l.\t Union College wa.s 'Prepared : of ilie members of the Garnet We wish to add our hearty welcome and jour.nalistlc handshake to: Ka:ppa ~lpha · ........ · .. · .. · .. 17 .b:y The Concordieilllis i:n co-op- : squad was killed in a game and the many which the Rochester team, and Union alumni, guests, and Ps1 Ups!l~n · · · · · · · · • · • · · · · • · · · · · 1 12 -. 6 .eration witb. the college athletic '·this fatali:ty led to a re~islon of the friends will receive during the college weekend festivities. A grea.t·. Sigma ·Ch1 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ~o d-epartment which is i:n i;he proo- ··rules. T-here was no team here in crowd will be on hand tomorrow afternoon at .Alexander Field to watclJ. Neutrals · · · · · · · · · • · · · · • · · · · · · · · ~ .es;; of ma.klng an exhaustive sur- ··1900 but in 1907 football was re- the Dutchmen tackle the Yellowjacket fer the thirty-fourth time .and: Phi Delta :r'heta · · · · · · · · · · · · ·· · · 10· vey of college sporting activities. , sumed snd has been played con- they should, unJess the weather man peels onions, see a fine game. This. Delta Ups~lon · · · · · · · · • · · · · · · · ··· 9 Bookstore Offers Faculty Some \Last Chance Buys\ •blcomplete as it is, .this brief re- . tinuously since then. ·Will be a crucial contest in the long series between the two schools f~r· S1~ma Ph1 · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·· · · ·· · · 9 view will give an inklin.g of the Basketlxlll Union and Rochester have each won 15 games. Three have been tied .. Ph1 Ga.m~a Delta · · · · • ·· · · · · · · 7 Mrs. Dillingham Jenkins, man- long and Interesting history of · Basketball, which is the only rna- All Indications ,point to a Union victo1-y since the Upstaters have ba.<l De~ta. Ph1 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 4 5 ager of the ·College bookstore, is co- .Uni~m's athletic ventu:res.-Sports . jor sport in this country which can a disastrous season, but as our Out on a Limbermen have discovered,. Ph1 S1gma Delt~ · · · · · · • · • · · · · · · ., . operating with the University of Editor. · claim an American origin, was in-· statistics count for nought. Alpha Delta Phi · · . · · • . · · · · · · · · \ Chicago Press in the distribution of .]lase ball vente(l In 1891 by Dr. James A., * * Chi Psi .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. • .. .. .. S a booklet entitled \Last Chance Naismith, a Y. M. C. A. instructor. With Joe Paul and Bob Hayner Buys;' which contains a list of edu- According t(} present records: baseball was the first organized The game spread very rapidly, We think it's about time there was an explanation of the athletic, taking fourth and fifth places in cational books available to the fac- flrst through the Y. M. C. A.· or- department's stand on the sale of football tickets. A few weekll ag-o. the high jump event of the fall ulty of various colleges of the colln- ganization and then th1'ough educa- the papers carried an account .of Johns Hopkins' new policy of free intramural track meet, North Col- try at a reduced rate . . sport at Union, statistics shoWing· that it was played here as early as: 1860. The first teams played were for the most P!\-rt town clubs or: nine from the .Albany Law School.. It was a. fall .sport predominantly until around 7865 when it began to; ·be played almost exclusively in the spving. Union's first intercollegiate ;baseball game was with Hamilt?n Q()l!ege in 1&74, the Dutchmen wm· ning 14-13. Since that time it seems to ~ve been played without inter- mption. tiona! institutions. Yale was prob- football games in which it was stated that the idea was originally --;:::=:;;::=:=:=:==;;:=;;;;:=;;;:=;nl::::;::;;:;:::;;;:;:;;;;;;;;:;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;- ably the first college to have a Union's because former President Day ·had, several years ago, made a· ii team which played a regular sched- speech advocating admiSsion to games by Invitation. Lately our athletic ule. The sport can be traced back department has furnished an example of the direct opposite of this as far as 1895 at Ell. policy. K.llowlng that the R. P. I. gamE would bring an extra large :&oat!ng ·Ohronologica.lly boating takes sec· ond place in Union sports. The first a. vailable official reference to it dates from 1868. .A.t that time sev- eral of the fraternity houses main· tained crews, certainly Alpha Delta Phi and Sigma Phi, and used a boathouse on the Mohawk River. Boating must have reached the height of its popularity here around 1875 for a. new shell was bought in tllat year. The crews trained twice a day and engaged in sporadic races with local organizations. By 1877 rowing was already on the de· cline and an article in the first is· sue of The Concordiensis, in No· vember of that year, laments that tile financial committee of the col· lege at a late meeting decided that it could not continue payments on the boathouse lease. The writer .felt that the boating association was improperly organized. In. June of 1871 The Conoordiensis printed an article on the degeneration of boating a.t .Union and deplored the general inactivity. In January, 1899, an editc>riai in sale of tickets, Mr. Wittner refused the Union band its usual block of The 'Concordiensis advocated the seats in the center of our cheering section but relegated it to the terrace formation of a basketball team at in back of the n<;>rth gqal post. The band., righteously and naturally in- Union. The article ,argued that digna.nt, protested and was promised that It would get back its old seats 'j)asketbaU was a good substitute tor the Rochester game. The Rochester ga!lle, however, happens to coin· for other sports that could not be cide with our College Weekend and apparently again th prospects .for enjoyed during the winter months. a bumper sale of tickets were so good that the band was curtly in- It we>uld also preserve college inter- formed that it would be placed up on the terrace once more. est.\ Soon after a team was formed and from that year until 190& was played intermittently. Since 1906 basketball has had a. place on the college sports calendar each year. From the time of the first game in 1899 Union has won to date 268 games and lost 202 for a winning percentage of .570. Union teams have twice had winning streaks of fifteen straight games during this period. Hockey Th.e history of hockey is perhaps more interesting than \that of any other sport at Union. The building of a. skating rink on the campus was first suggested in a chapel talk in Jan11ary of 1903 by Guy B. Gris- wold who favored the construction of one here under two conditions: \First that the City Water Com- pany supply the water; second, that the students keep out the rough element.\ A great deal of discussion on hockey followed this speech. and many editorialS and articles were printed in The Con- cordlensis. A skating. rink commit- tee was appointed and a hockey team, which played a. few games that year with the Mohawk Rockey Club on the club rink, was formed. The band is an organization of undergraduates who, along with the rest of the student body, pay a tax for tlc:kets entitling them to reserved seats at all home football games. The ba.nd, In addition, plays through- out the games and is an integral part of the game-color. It desel'Ves the best we have In ·Seats and definitely should not be shunted off to the t~rza:ce, because, as Mr. Wittner is reported to have said, \its pur- pose 1s to play at the game, not to witness it.\ Our band rates as high as many other small college bands. It is present at our gar_nes w~ether they be set-ups or titanic struggles. It should not be sacrlficed JUst to fill the treasury of the athletic depart- ment with the receipts from one game, Are we to remain a college for the students or the customers? A.re we to strive for gate-receipts? Are we to a.im at the \invitation\ policy or \big time\ practices? We wish thE administration and the athletic department would get together. That first skating rink was built were organized comparatively late · under conditions that would ha.ve In college history. Cross-country daunted less determined men. The was a.n activity here around 19()4, questions of water supply, finances, but it was not until 1926 that la- and maintenance plagued various crosse was Introduced as a regular committees for some years. Not the sport here. least of the worries of the hockey I rs;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ enthusiasts was caused by the II weather man, for the winter of 19()5..()6 was unusually warm. One . of The Concordiensis wags pro- duced this quip: ''Water, water everywhere, nor any on the rink.\ In 1907 a team was again formed and played several games. Union's two other major sports BELLINGER PAINT CO. Arthur Trigg, J?rop. Pa.lnJt5, Oils, VarnWtes, Glass, Brushes :and Wall Paper 126 BROADWAY Interested in Schenectady Interested in UNION MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Street Jeweler 166 JAY STREET Watch and Jewelry R~paiTirJO a Specialty PARKER PENS UN lTV SHIRT SHOP • 1.04 Broadway Just Off State Adam 1 Hats $2 .. 95 SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY THE UNIVERSITY. Of BUFFALO A four year curriculum completed in three calendar years, by means of the quarter plan. The dental and med- ical schools are closely affiliated. Dental students have two years of basic medical study under the direction and super· vision of the medical faculty. Clinical practice of dentistry, in all its varied aspects, is supervised by the dental division and is connected with the clinics of several hospitals. One month of interneship in a hospital of 1200 beds, during the senior year, offering unusual experience in clinical observa- tion, diagnosis and treatment of ·dental conditions. The next regular session will start the first week in July, 1938. Class A Rating For Furtl1er Information Address SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY 25 Goodrich Street Buffalo, New York Union College seems to have sp(}nsored a full track and field program as far back as 1875, be- cause the results of track meets from that year until 1&87 were re- corded in the Union College Ath- letic Register which was purchased by the Field Day Committee for the spring meet of :18&6 and kept in the library. In this register were oet down statistics of the yearly otate intercollegiate meets, meets with private athletic clubs, and a contest with R. P. I. In 1880. Rifle Shooting There was a:t least· one rilie shoot- Ing team formed at Union, for in 1879 there is a. record. of the de- feat of the college cl11b by the Fort Edward Stars by the score of 9 to 4. In May, 1879, a telegraphic meet was conducted between the Union rifle squad and that. of Allegheny College. Union won, scoring 231 out of a. possible 25() io Allegheny's 2()6 SCOl'e, B1lt it was not until the next year that a. rink was built approximately where Memorial Chapel now stands. I There seems to have been only one I difficulty with the new rink at first: it would not hold water. (This, in- cidentally, was the fault with our present hockey rink a few years ago.) QI4rtstman Tennis Lawn tennis was :played com- paratively early here, first known mention of it being made in the Ap1·il Concordiensls o:f 1882. This · sport, however, .really hit its stride in the '90's when it swept the coun- try like wildfire. Football AlthOugh o r g an I z e d intercol- legiate football began in 1869 when the classic Rutgers·Pl'in~<?Wl!. se- ries was inaugurated, Union ha.d no teams until 1886. In this year it played the first ga.me of its long string with R. :P. I. In 1905 one Pleasant Valley Meat Market • Home of Sunshine Meat Products • 586·592 BROADWAY Phone 4·3181-2-3-4 Schenectady Emgraving Co. 147 J A 'f ST. ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORDIENSlS UNION! Beat Rochester • AFTER THE GAME MEET AT REUTER•s BOWLING ACADEMY 148 CLINTON STREET \Where U11ioil Students Have Always Bowled\ Created By The Foremost American Artists * Qt~rtstmas ~ift ~uggtatinus BOOKS JEWELRY FELT GOODS NOVELTIES JAPANESE PRINTS Union College. Book Store -~- ---------- ---~-----~·~---.0. ---~- -·-------C--~

Page Six THE eoNC()RDIENsrs, FRIDAY, NOVEMBEm 5, 1937 ~ • .. • brilliant. But the phrase \h.as bee11\ seems 't=i ~ 4J. The fact~n·s that make f<'lr a continuing W Q R D S tfn lttd: to be returning to the present tense. I I· t\'----------..-------- -vitality, however, do not rest upon what the lk·=========;;i;;;;;=;;;;;;o;;=========;;;;:;;;;:;;;;;;!.~ · 1 :present generation is doing. In a few years FouNDBD ~S77 •• A Causa Per sa PIU'ole A srai\ 1937 Member 1938 1=\ssociated CoHeeiate Press Distributor of ColletSiaf:e Di6est REPRESENTI:C FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING B\t' NationaiAdvertisingService,lnc. Co/lege Puh/is/1..-s Representotiv• 4l!O·MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N, Y. ClilCAGO - BOSTON • LOS A.ffGELES • SAN ·FnANCISCO The official newspaper of the students of Union College, Published Tuesday and Fridays through- out the college year, except during Christmas and Spring recesses. Publicatlort Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 EntEred at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mall Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy ; $3.00 a year ; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Senior Board Hyman A Enzer ......• , , •..•.•. Editor-In-Chief H S. S. South College-S-~128 Robert H. Ferguson •..•...... Managing Editor l'si Ups!lon House-4-8710 Julius J. Bundgus .•.....•..•..•.• News Editor 9 S. S. South College-6·9728 Henry D. Hartmann .......... Feature Editor 7 U. G. D.-6·9620 Carl R. Trahman ........•.... , , .Sports Editor Kappa Sigma House-4-8325 John H. Gilmour ......•...... Business Manager Delta Upsilon House-4-7922 Marvin M. Miller .. Associate Bwlneas Manager Kappa Nu-4-7331 Alfred R. Seigle .......•... Circulation Manager Kappa Nu-4·7331 Junior Board ASSOCIATE EDITORS Herbert 0. Fox Robert A. Saat Frederick W. Hequembourg Jerome Smltlt H. Wyman Hitchcock Edward C. Retartyk Hobart C. Walter, Jr. Published by the Senior Board FRI CAY NOVEMBER 5, 1937 ANNIVERSARY the sentiment of the campus may change en- tirely. What can make the present zest per- manent is a personal support o.f the colleg·e wl1ich. many graduates feel is unnec- essary @nee the undergraduate tie is broken. Union is making progress that cannot be sustained withQut motive .power. It is the present g!'aduate and undergraduate ·bodies i who must accept the challenge to go fo-rward. ROCHESTER-HAJ.v.ULTON The welcoming back to the campus of the Inany alumni who will be here for the College Week-End activities is an annual editorial pleasure. To Rochester football players and followers we also extend eur hea1ty greet- ings and best wishes. Tomorrow's football game will be the last ·on the home field for Union, and cencludes h.ere a season which has been extremely suc- cessful. The only game l'em.aining is with Hamilton rrext week-end at Clinton. Tickets fo1· that contest ue now being sold in Harold Wittner's office and the number of tickets sold for that game will help the ad- ministration determine wl1ether a. holiday next Saturday will be justified. Anyway, fratel'llity greups are getting out their old college song books and brushing up on Ham- ilton songs and cheers. A courteous prepar- ation. EDITORIAL (Continued from Page 1) estly, as befitting newcomers, cordially, as college-men. We request frorn all a lenient judgment upon this our first issue. IT is our intention to make the CON- CORDIENSIS such a paper that no Alumnus In- Webb's Basement particular pertion who breaks into When the West wind whiffs o'er the 1. a column, the key to ·universal ap- cmpus cliffs, and the moon peaJ. must he foun(j. in that per- shines overhead, · son's foibles. It is the columnist's. And the eampus flocks and Presi- function to be supremely critical. dent Fox: and the students Yet thete sh.ollld be no catty com- are all ·in bed; ments made merely for the sake When the campus hounds have run. of being nasty,. and the reader their rounds, and the campus should be made to understand that cop has tied, columnar characterizations are nee- In the library grot . . . Elipllalet · essarily one-sided. Nott , . , rises up from the o 0 0 dead, With what ghostly moans he rattles his bones! How clammily clank his chains, As he starts to prance in a. spec- ter's dance along the pitch- black lanes; With a g1·isly g-rin he distort.<; his chin, as, reaching the panel board, Ev'ry switch he turns till the base- ment burns, and the clocks tick in accord. Now around the shelves he digs and he delves, and he searches ev'rywhere For a certain book• hid in some odd nook, or cranny hel'e or there; Then with spooky scowls he. screams and he howls, and he roars and jumps about, For just as he spies where the novel lies, and reacbes . . . the lights go out. Stately Limericks There was a young lady from Arkansas, Who went wa.llring one night in the da1·k an' sas A man in the ras, So she called on the las To remove ~hat she's gone in the park an' sas. A popular man from Dakota Of wive:; had much mme than ·his qumta, So he went to a dance, And at five cent a chance, He raffled off •ev'ry iota. There was a young man from Connecticut Who felt much too warm in a pecticut, So, in spite of the ants, He got dressed up in pants, Which was much more according to ectlcut. By M. V. and S. M. H. (two halves malte a wit). When the West wind whiffs o'er the Over the Back-yal'd Fence: When campus cliffs, and the moon Jack M.alone stops. :;tealing cracks shines overhead, from radio's Charlie McCarthy, his And the campus flocks and Presi- feet will finall)i' fit Dowling's shoes. dent Fox and the students are lf Alan Wrana {who won the all in bed, Philip Schuyler song contest last In the library grot . . . Elipl!.alet yeat ·~ J still wants to be a second NQtt ••• is forever doomed to Fitzhugh Ludlow, he'd better lay roam, in an opium supply. Union's Alma Without any rest in his hopeless Mater is nothing more or less than quest for that diabolic a pipe-dream. There is a freshman tome! now at Union who, until he came *Probably Ulysses, by James to college, had never seen a foot- Joyce. ball, basketball, or baseball game, 0 0 0 never heard of lacrosse, handball, or hockey, and who, in spite or per- haps because of his isolation, com- pleted high school in two years. The name is Lino Gallo, of North College. A student named O'Con- nor opened his oral cavity last Sat- urday night on State Street, to yawn, and h.ad. a whole handful of confetti thrust therein.- H. M.S. About this job; The easiest way to produce a popular column is to deal in personalities - adverse ones. Nobody is interested in read- ing panegyrics; we get enough of them in The Garnet at Commence- ment. .Although any number of nice things might be said about any Now starting its sixty-first y.ear of pub- lication, The Concordiensis looks back, with the aid of its former editors, to those not- too-distant events in the later history of the college. We offer our.selves congratulations. of Union will be willing to forgo it, both by ~ ~ AT THE PLAy a lively exhibit of the present doings, and by M 0 T 1 0 N · By Robert H. Ferguson such copious and familiar information con- Idiot's Delight-by Robert E. cerning graduates, that the memory of h.er ~===========;;;.; Sherwood. Erie rneatre, November The purposes of issuing an undergraduate publication are well stated in the first editor- ial ever printed in The Concordiensis. It is especially significant in view of the progress made in the sixty yeal's since the first issue was put out. By the grace of God and sixth gray old walls may be kept green in every years of the Concordiensis we are l-6. Produced. by the Empire heart loyal to his Alma Mater. We have permitted in this issue to general- Players under the direction of ize to our heart's content. But Addison Pitt. made our subscription price very low (one unfortunately for you kiddies, our Donna Earl makes another hit d 11 ' d d d d heart is anything but content; we o ar per yea1· 1n a vance, .an epen upon seenStella Dallas and Ma.da.rue x this week, this time in the part a lal·ge number of subscriptions. We make a at Proctor's this week and we've of Irene in Robert Sherwood's special appeal to all our Alumni and friends seen the light in one of Frederick anti-war fa.rce, \Idiot's Delight\. Lidell Bronner's periodical ordeals, Last week she gave a steller per- The history of Union College at certain periods has been written by diarists and individual journalists, y.et the only continu- ous every-day history-inaccurate though it may be-is recorded by The ·Concordiensis. Other college publications can look back- ward ; they may go to original somces. The college newspaper taps its history from the present-the present in student thought and student action. fol • prompt \'ml'tta d l f · t t and as a result the world seems r._ nces, an a so or m eres - h formance 1'n the role of Karen very muc mis-cast. However • , . ing correspondence. Write as though you It might be interesting to dis- Andre in \Night of January 16th.\ were talking at a class SUpper, and talk as cuss the wiliness of Darryl Zanuck \Idiot's Delight\ a whimsical yet the twentieth century fox-.. W~ freely. might whip u\ a little panegyric biting satire, is a difficult play BJbout his uncanny ability to keep to produce successfully. The lead- Shirley Temple in the limelight ing parts of Irene and Harry Van while she gradually assumes the Call for talented performances if physical proportions of the leas-t WE solemnly protest again.st the removal of the milch kine from the College pasture. We miss the pleasant sound of milk stream- ing into the wash-pitchers. at all times of the night, while occasionally you could distin- .guish the voice of the milker, reciting select passages from profane history, as a well-di- REN AISS.ANCE rected kick caused him to relinquish his hold We are heartily in favor of the active and pick up himself and. the shattered mind, so long as it results in action. That's pitcher from the lacteous ruin around him. why we favor the rebirth of an unselfish Now it requires five able-bodied men to milk college spirit which. has become evident in a cow properly. One creeps up- and wakes the the formation of what seems to be a live- \critter\ from placid slumber, and seizes her wire interfraternity council, an all-college by one horn; two more come .up and lay hold social committee, a non-clique Junior Prom respectively (not respectful1y) of the other Committee, and an effective non-fraternity horn and the c.audal appendage; another pro- organization. ceeds to the active duty of cha.wing the milk, There has been an unmistakable revitaJ- while the fifth keeps off and guards ag·ainst ization of the undergr-aduate affairs this the interruption of officious intn1ders. Milk- year. The decisive action which the student ing here r-equires experience and decision. council bas taken in the reformation of a WE notice in the city papers a protest by system of government which has functioned .some unmusical citizen against the custom imperfectly, and the impartial attitude of the ef the students of singing College songs on Student Tax Committee, in the making of the streets at night, on the ground that om· budgets, gives indication of a lively colleg€ I'Ollicking snatches of song, interspersed with year. frequent \Hikahs\ give great annoyance to of all box-office midgets, a Warn- the play is to succeed. Donna Earl pus Baby star. and Wylie Adams, who have these Or we might concentrate on the roles, do an exce-llent job in main- evils of the double-feature. But taining the tempo and zest of the since we work on the principle play, while at the same time put- that two pad pictures are about ting across to their audience the twice as long, and consequently cogent philosophy it conta1ns. The twice as enticing, as one good pat t of Irenn is especially diffi- picture, our efforts would be two- cult and Miss Earl's splendid in· faced. {Two-faced, double feature. terpretation of it assures her of a Hmrnm.) high place in the estimation of We could even resort to that streamlined V8 dodge of discussing the advances in the field of color- photography, with special reference to Vogues of 1938. There is also an opening for an enterprising young discussion of the cartoon as a medium of sati- ricial art. Think of calling Donald Duck \the embodiment of the in- domitable American spirit\ and getting a.way with it! Then again, you might like some- thing in the gossip line. We could straighten you olit on the life and loves of Franklin Pangborn or the why behind Jane Wither's de- cision not to marry. Don't worry, we won't. Finally, we could go on for hours deploring the cinderella- mentary type of plot which graces nine-tenths of the annual film out- put. In this corner we could get very, very nasty about Jean Par· Iter, Janet Gaynor, Marion Davies, and other prototpyes .. As a matter of fact, we'll do none of these because our space is very nearly exhausted. Instead, we offer you a swell weekend suggestion: Schenectady theatre-goers. Sherwood's satire is set in the cocktail bar of a winter resort in the Italian Alps. Here a few gue~t~ ate gathet·ed awaiting per- mission from officials to cross the border into S1vitzerland. Europe is cowering before war scares. The guests are an ill-assorted lot in- cluding a newly-married English couple, a muaitions czar and his pseudo-Russian mistress, a Germa~ bactetiologist, a communist an American troupe of dancing' girh and their manager. Naturally theil attempts at conversation a.l! turn to the subject of war and national· ism and Shenvood makes good use of !his opportunity to express some fine ideas on the subject of war. A conflict doc; break out durin1; the course of the play, involving the whole of Europe. The com· munist cxpre>SC3 his contempt fm the Itali.an military to several rep· rcsen~atlves of that organization and 1s shot for his pains. Irene, the mistress of the munitions czar, expr-esses her contempt fm her lover's grt1esome business and he deserts bet·. IDLE DRIVEL We with the other- 300 made the hegira to Williams, and even at .this .post-mortem date we feel as though, with a few breaks on our side, we might have 1ei iher tied oi· .come out ahead of the P.ur,ple team. But the one thing that impressed us deeply, so deeply in' fact that we were hoaJ>se aH' night, was the show of spirit and ·cheei'ing that the Union sectiDn ex:bibited. For once they let down• their ·hair and yelled, and a similar show of spirit at Alexander Field would probably shake the steel· ,g-irders of the I:b1ary. One small incide11t a 1 most upset the morale of the cheering fans, when a miniature ·beer geyser sent up a spray from a •badly punctured beer can, and sent Unionites within a ten yard tadlws scurrying from range. A couple of Phi Sigs at- templed to open a; beer 'can with a scout knife, and afte:r· the geyser had subsided, most ·Of the people around smelled .Jike ·one of Tony's towels. The Williams and Union bands both put on shows d ut·ing the half. We Hke to thinlt that our band was just as good -if not better than theirs. However, we'-1e very much afraid that they have never yet learned how to ,play the .Alma Mater so that ·it wouldn't sound Hke a funeral dirge. VIe like Dr. Tidmarsh's version in which he steps up the tempo a •bit so that there is some fee ling i:n it. Jugs of cider were very much in evidence, and a break in the cheering would us11ail:y call for a few slugs. Sometilncs the:y were passed right down the stands. We should like to inform Wil- liams of its lack of :facilities on the athletic field. The only advan- tages of the field Vle:re the very strategically locateli .stands. • \' * One of our studious fl'iends went into the library last 'Sunday night to obtain a rather obscure volume of poetry. The baserne:nt of the li- brary was totally da.rk when he descended the stalt'Si He spent a rather hectic time ·iooldng for num- bers 325 B, and after snapping on the time light at the foot of the stairs, he wandered off into the catacombs of vol utnes. Finally he came to a time switch which sig- nified the 320's, and s:na:pped that on too. After sturni>ling over a .tmall foot stool in his haste to the 325's and after he had perused an entire shelf in quest ·of his poetry, he decided to give .up. :It -was :prob- ably a psychological DJoment, for the light at the stairs snapped off with a click. The student stopped on the way to look over :English fiction. He was looking o-ver a vol- ume of Conrad whett the nearest time switch gave up and died, throwing the entire base:ment into the blackest of darl!::ness. For dark minutes, my friend wandered about blindly stumbling int<> the steel shelves, knocking dow-n ·en route several volumes. Fillall:y, a battered but patient individ11ai, he followed a small gleam of light to the stairs and there snapped ·Dn another time switch. But his love of knowledge again overcame his ter:nper and be wandered off to the left looking for the Cambridge Ancient History, In a few seconds be returned with the required nmnber, srtapJ,Jed off the time switch, and was about to start up the stairs vvhen 'be heard a pleading yell frotn •It remote cor- ner-of the basentenl. \liey who turned off the light. What the devil's the matter 1vith you?\ .. * * We hear that Sunday morning found several people taJting advan- tage of the cmnfor t of Silliman Hall and peacefully snoozing on the chairs in the st -ud:y lounge. We hear that they vtere rudely awakened by impromptu f()rces of law and order and sent on their way. -All of which is j11st in the way of letting you know that of a Sat- urday night, in case you should lock yourself out of your room- or feel incapacitated to find your ~ay home, you might stroll into Silli- man and avail yourself of a nice, comfortable leathet· ch~ir. • \' * One. of the politlcia.n ptofessors ~arne mto class on- election morn- mg •. when everyone-in t:he class was hopmg he would be unable to at- tend, and be down at the polls 0 h!'rking over pnspuclive voter~ as they ,filed in. The prof. was greeted Many Ea.ppy Returns,\ of one of the clas:; Vlits. The prof. rec~vered poise by immediately callmg on Mr. K-, Vlhereupon an- ?t~er bright student ·declared, \He rsn t twenty-one yet.\ See you in Bailey H:all Jabie. Not only is the reawakening evident in the slumbering populace, and especially to in- student affairs, but als<> in the problems of valids. But we do not reg:ard this as the the administration. When a college starts voice of the majol'ity of the DOI'Pian peopl€, sacrificing quantity of students in order to · for we have heard many of those who must get the best quality of students the time has be most annoyed express the opinion that come to look towards better things. Even our singing was rather pleasant than other- the alumni associations, at least the one in wise, and most \enlivening\ in its chal'acter. Schenectady, have realized the need for ''tak- So, boys, go in. Shout, ho-wl, sing and groan ing an intel'est\ or doing something tangible as much as you please; :keep clear of the in becoming a more vital part of the college. C()pS, and the peaceful citiz;ens of Schenec- Dial 1-1911 and aslt for Mary. Laugh? We thought we'd die. A pl.ot as such, however, does th not ex1st in the play or at least . e .audience and tnakes the play The history of Union College has been tady are your friends. • • • The vaudeville this week takes up the matter of N. T. G.'s \Hollywood Revels\. The Th.ree SailC>rs seen in Top of the Town, go through a nicely-balanced rough-house routine that rocks the house. All N. T. G. units are very ea-sy on the eyes, so it's unnec- essary to add that this is deftnltely front-row stUff. J. M. is not noticeable. The value of Sigmficant. Sherwood's WDrlt lies in the sati· Alfred Lunt and Lynne Fontanne rica! comedy and the moral philoso- pla~ed \Idi?t's Delight'• to capacity phy of the play. While \Idiot's a.udJ.ences m New York City, a Delig-ht\ is a comedy and its scenes Slgmficant Indication of the sound- and lines are exceedingly humor· nes~ of it~ content, the tiineliness ous, yet so timely is its SUbJ'ect · of Its subJect-matter and the op- tt th portunity it af\ot·d's competent rna er~ - at of the next war-and t ' so well-reasoned are its ideas on ac ors to show their ability. the subject of war, that it is that NOTE: \Idiot's Delight\ will play and not the element of humor at the Capitol Theatre in Albany which catches the ilnagination of ~:e:he first three days of next 19th Pu <Continu dreaded cholE strangely ho! student body. the period oJ gins in e11.rn E riously consi poet quite Ill own time; Sc be}! are each amount ·of which •::1.1ist with a ;ozy All, h::Jwev skittles for I the student kept the lit€ Union. Jona on Septemb< envy a.nd h have set a·b1 <paper) an< h~s been t·h party strive and gain m day he wro whole colle~ and a conu conduct the come out u Censor moi one do Ua.r. I and I know r.. ay come Oh, for could get e of letters! have come came out i t·an for six: a smaller Farthenor:t, the same m The Wi2a of those w~ affairs whi sian durin@ tetnity life itself. The had grow1 either felt all the hill upset at 1:J dissatisfaci finaUy beea ing to a. The librar; with ma11; tedious sa Union.\ Th. anonymoul into oblivi Such wa ing Pan I came out Its editor·, pine, howe pricking raries, an< the new f1 In 1B4U another a: this time, sor Alonz< \insinuate for old \I!! he could college. U Glass, aPl of neutra five frateJ to think foul in graveyar( pictured 1900; the written c \And so gur I died o1 Kappa. ried this \ ... Thi she That K bel The ·C uary, 18· liberativ< Dr. Noli from tl preach in tinence.\ threaten revelatlc cret soc ed imm cible wl S.M. uate edi publicai short IU May, 18 that he parisan paper v of und may Te lege's H \catalol the reJ \Tem]H Editor active In r.l came t· juvena.1 been v mediat worry • had so den dE tempt same pea red sor of ernbly-. rea.pp~ deaf e Alth eral s: CThe j pub lis

= ~de the oven at feel as on our tied or e team. pressed -ct that vas the rg that >d'. For !l!ir and •f spirit robably of the t upset g fans, :er sent nctured within g from Hgs at- 'n with geyser people Tony's ' bands he half. end was •r than f much ver yet • Alma sound ike Dr. 1ich he so that r much in the I for a y were ds. m Wil- ties on advan- le very .. :Is went y night volume the li- ·hen he spent a )l' num- ping on of the nto the .ally he ich sig- ed that over a ~to the 1sed an poetry, 's prob- ~nt, for •ped off stopped English ravel- nearest i died, mt into :>r dark d about e steel 1 route •attered ollowed e stairs er time )WI edge and be dng for t:ory. In d with ),led off bout to ~ heard )te cor- •Y, who 1at the ?\ norning advan- ;miman .ing on lounge. rudely •rces of n their .he way a Sat- should )OOO, or •UI way . o Sil!i- a nice, lfessors morn- 31ls was to at- ~ polls, voters •f. was :3turns,\ 1e prof. =diately :>on an- 3d, \He Jabie. 1e play •ntanne ~pacity ~rty, a sound- leliness :he op- \lpetent ill play Albany •f next 19th Century Publicatio~ns THE,CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1937 .. CHARLIE'' WALDRON Dormitory Life Was .. zn 1883 Not Effete The above is a typical room of No1•th College of 1883. It beloil.ged to Fra.nk Bailey, '85 a.nd was phoro- g.-aphed by Jess Morey, '85, Dr. Bailey's feet are shown in the pictUJ.\e. Evidence shown aJso indicates be was studying medicine (skull), had use for a large La~n dic\tionary studied by lterosene lamp, swept bis own room. The room was hea.ted by a stove and coal was kept in boxes in the hall. Whoever started bis stove first in the Fall had ma.ny visitors because it was cheaper to get warm on somebody else's stove than to burn one's own coaL \There was no conscience abont stea.J.ing coal-even the divinity students were careleSs about their coal-mo:rals,\ said Union's treasurer. \There were two padlocks put on eaGh box in the ball an.d sometimes-even they would not be sufficiently efficient. In my I\oom there wet•e two car- pets-one on top of the other-nd while the picture shows a broom it was used spa1\iugly because the dust raised from sweeping was Insufferable .••. To bathe, one had to go outdoors and go do\vn to a room that was fm'Dished in concrete with a shower and nothing else. Sometimes it had some \Vann water! You bad to Carry yo~ <lhllh' with ~ou on wlrlch to put your clothes and the cement fll)or was chilly •••• \ Page Seven ---0--- Studettt Life in 1877 <Editor's note: Material for this article was furnished by Dow Beekman, a member of the class of 1884. Student life about the time The Concordiensis was founded in 1877 did not differ greatly in many re- spects from that of today. Alumni accounts of the period describe politics in the election of class of- ficers, cut-throat fraternity rushing, pranks in and out of class· rooms, general congenialty be- tween faculty and stud1mts, and many other characteristics which are present in present campus life. In the period around 1877 little effort was made to acquaint in- coming freshmen with each other as is being done today. The first incentive for students to become acquainted with each other was the election of class officers. Then an inventory had to be made of the qualifications and personality of the members of the class and the candidates for the various of- ficers naturally were active in se- curing friends to vote for them . Each fraternity was anxious to ha.ve its pledges elected and com- binations between different fra- ternities were arranged, although the •·neutrals\' held the balance of power. Several years bef01e 1880 an organization termed the \Union Col~ege Senate\' composed of semors, existed and in 1881 it was revived. Under the plan, the Senate was presided over by a member of the fa<\ulty and Sena- tors were designated for the various states. A committee of seniors acted a!'l a House of Rep- resentatives to originate bills and send them to the Senate where they were considered in a parlia- mentary way. Bills concerned cur- rent questions and proceedings were .carried on under the rules of the United State Senate. All of the fraternities had rooms and headquarters but the major part of the social life consisted in meetings in the rooms of popular students. Around 1882 a fraternity named \Theta Nu Epsilon'\ formed a chapter at Union which was then t·ec?gnized essentially as a hazing socrety. It had no headquarters·and its chief function consisted of hold- ing a boisterous dinner in the fall term after initiation.

Page Eight THE CONOORDIENSIS, FR.IDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1937 Hale Club History BeltJred Nott Elm Ends Career northwest Gf the college green- house. This is being done in antlci·, pation of the Schenectady Garden Continued from Page 7) Continued from Page 7) ' Club's annual ·flower show next sparkled throughout their delivery be exact-and the young Ameri- h~s ,re.t~rn to En~land wrote about spring, which Is to consist of this when the turkey and roast pig ,had can elms growing within two 'hun- h1s vtsit. here: the one. memo~)': one variety of bulb. satisfied the needs of inner man, dxed feet are thought to be Its, that per_s1stently stays w1th me .ls: The principal work of the gar- The subtle gentle satire of Leonard, seedlings. At any rate, tree experts the q1;1amt '?ld garden (Jacksons,; den committee during the past Chester Jones' letters tG Jacobus are now eK.anlning this possibility. at Unwn); It had so much of the. three years, however, has been the Paulus, in which the. foibles of the It was in 1909 th.at the demise of character of a natural, secluded, restoration of the wild natura:! faculty, the students, the frater- the Nott Elm :from old age ·was but charming nook in the woods.: conditions of the woods surround- nities, and the college were pa- predicted. The ,college, however, It was human, too, and very Amer-: !ng the flower gardens. raded in 14th century monastic through care:ful 'Cementing <>i de-· ican. No pretense; just a few old- ' garb, have survived their author cayed spots and other \surgical op-· fashioned s·hrubs with wild flowers and may perhaps be published for erations\ maintained the life cif the at their feet, little stretches 'C>f· 1 9th club members at some future date. tree until last week when the' ma- turf and an unpretending brook The adventm·es of Sir Honnybert, jestic top of Nott Elm, still ,leafy, running through it out into the, C>entury Publications \a knight who lived l:n the middle toppled as the,g-:uy wire holding- the little valley lying like an amphi-' of the Middle Ages\ came from main trunk was cut. The decayed theatre with grand old elms over· the pen of John Vedder, together trunk had not been able to with- arching. How fine a combination, with other papers abounding in a. stand the str-ains of its oscillating I confess I like it better than the peculiar type of humor of which top. Now, only the base of the old garden at New College, Ox-: Betsy was a master. It is possible Nott Elm, ,mostly filled with ce- ford.\ that these too may find more per- ment, stands. rt is causing- much Mr. Van Voast's great contribu· manent expression, ,but all of them perplexity ta. those who are en- tion to the garden was the plant- will lack to some extent that qu.al- 'gaged in tqing- to remove it and ing of many evergreens. ity which made theil· authors its roots fr6nn Jackson's Garden. Since Mrs. Fox and her gardell eminently fitted for membership' The orlg!n.at ,plans of Jacques committee, headed by J. Leslie· in the Hale Club. Ramee, the distinguished French Schoolcraft, '08, began their worll Another tmdition of the old Eng- landscape g-ardenet• and archit- in the garden, many changes· have' lish Club which for some years teet, in planDing the Union cam- taken place. The 1906 pool in the has been neglected was that the pus in 1812, caned for a garden in eastern end has been reconstructed newly electeu members should pre- its present site-. But nothing was and a roclt garden built. Paths sent an original play on the ceca- done about It until Isaac W. have been improved. Ferns, dog-· sion of their initiation. The neo- Jacltson, an alunums of 1826, and wood and hemlocks have been phytes were allowed an entirely professor froXll 1826 to 1877, began planted in the woods upon whose free hand as to the nature and' its devel<>prnez:tt in 1830. His open slopes have been naturalized subject of the play, except for one daughter, Mrs. .Samuel Benedict, about 3,000 daffodils. restriction. All plays must open continued he:r :fatller's work until The borders of the flower gar- with a scene of Dr. Nott and John her death In l.92:i, when an()ther den have been replanted wltll Howard Payne in bed. In the lover of flo--wets, John C. Van perennials and those tulips have earlier days a large table in what, Yoast, '87, later a trustee, toolt particularly delighted visitors. In is now Dr. Johnson's office, whicle1 · over the eare of the historic gar- addition, new bridges have 'beell at that time was the general Eng-' dens. Mrs. Fox bas been in charge erected over the College brook, (Continued from Page 7) ciety, appears to be the next seri- ous attempt at Union jouvna!ism. Here, apparently, are the first ad-, vertlsements . . . \Student Board with Mrs. W'hite, Cornor of Union and Park, $2.00 per week.\ The lo- cal tailors suggest \stocks collars, bosoms, casslmers, vestings, Na- poleon Hes, and halfhose.\ But here, also, ru:e tbe heavy essays, and scented poetry of the earlier, \serious\ magazines. The Concordia expired with its third number, and a long editorial on college cynicism. The Union College Magazine, pub- lished once each term, from 1860 through 1875, is a really ambitious affair. 'The Philomathean Society, the Adelphic and the D,elphian socie- ties joined forces to make it possible. Its make-up was comparable to the best magazines of the day. Here are to be found excellent engravings of the faculty and alumni, (larefully queiLt resurrection. From 1896 ttntil prepared biographies of Union's 1899 it appeared, very much the 'great men, a column called \col- serious periodical. The 'story of legiana\ which retailed campus gos- 'The Goncordiensis and The Garnet, sip in very much i;he modern man- which have survived Into the pres- ner, and a supporting- section of ent, is being told elsewhere In this advertising. It is much more of a anni-versary issue. It is well to re- college magazine, in the sense that :membet', however, our literary past It published Uems of Union inter- 'before we lose ourselves in pride est, stories, essays, :poems, by ! ovet• the present. if ohn Boward Union men, than any-of its predeces- Payne ,did well with The Pastime sors' Here we find the ,first signs of ,one hundred and thirty years ago; 'local interest which have vitalized The Parthenon, in Its 'day, was a all of the succeeding ,campus pub- ,far mote sophisticated jownal than Jications which survived. any 11ndergraduate p 11 bl ic at ion In 1864 another anonymous sheet.' which has yet succeeded it. Union appeared called The Ram. Dr. has, contrary to the stateinents of Hickolt, then acting vice-president, :some of her critics, a literary tra- was attacked as \the pharisee.\ 'dition which we would do well to \Borous Jack Foster\ of the fac- emulate. ulty, Pearson, who apparently never, r;====~===~=====~ gave bolts, and Professor Gillespie, whose affection for brandy was legend, are all held up to ridicule .. , Like the earlier satires, The Ram· : died of being born. , The College Speatator of 1872- · : 1875, published by the Junior and ' Sophomore classes; antiaipated to-,: day's Garnet. College activities,·' class honors, histories and prop he-· : cies appear here along with fra-:: ternity notiaes and members~ip • lists. In 1875 The Centenmal, .. emerged to enjoy a. brief existence.; It was published by the secret so-' cieties, and also covered much the same ground that The Garnet now:· 'Covers. The century closed with a fourth . ' and, to date, last revival of The': Parthenon, that magazine of fre- : SHIRTS • Demi-Bosom Tabs Round Collars Tabless Tabs Neckband Shirts lish office, served as the essential since 1931> when Mr. Van Voast and many simple benches, made of piece of furniture for the bedmoiD died, split oak logs, have been set Ull WE OFFER .. OPEN HOUSE .. • scene of the ledgendary founders Jackson's Gu:den has attl'acted along the paths.. of the club. The story of the found-· international pra.ise from land· This fall a new planting of ing of the club by these two scape gardeners, including tbe fa· narissus was made in a \speci· worthies of Union's history was: mous Samuel l?arsons, who upon men garden\ established to the solemnly related to the new mem- bers by Dr. Hale, and was, of course, his invention, which varied somewhat each year. · After the death of Dr. Hale in 1932 the club fell on dolorous days for a few months, but was revived· as The Hale Club, with an execu- tive committee to perform the nec- essary functions or business which Spike in his position of perpetual chairman had so unobtrusively carried out. Its aims and objects are now to carry on the ideals which Spike set, and though lt has lost outstanding personalities, it has acquired new ones through the process of time and election. Its parliamentary organization is at a minimum; its character is still dictated by the personalities of its HEAR THE MUSIC OF • Tommy GoodmCin AND • Benny Goodman Other Famous Swing Bands Complete Stock of All Latest Decca & Victor Phonograph Records at CASSEDY•s 460 State St. members some of wl1om like Cllarlle •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••~~•••••• Waldron and Dr. Morton Stewart, ·• are charter members of the • original club, others of whom have : been invited to join in more reeent a years and are, in the main, pe•-· • j~~:d w:~~n:P\~e ~~ul:n h~;gl~:b 5 B:EAT ROCHESTER Club meeting in his home. • Ill PAINT & GLASS HEADQUARTERS CARLSON'S 515 STATE ST. Cor. lh:~rrett • • • • • .. • • • • • • • ·• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • iii • • • for the week-end Smart tweeds and herring- chalk stripes for bones. dress-up wear. • $22.50 to $35 ~~~~~~~~~ = •• OVERCOATS Congratulations to THE CONCORDIENSIS from F. J. WESSEL COAL COMPANY ,. • • • • • • •• • II • • • • ,. • • • ,. Raglans, fly-front tweeds, camels hair, Chesterfields. $22.50 to $50 Evening Clothes • :: . ~~~~~~;g. E Tuxedo, single and double ! ~ . . • 5 breasted tailcoats, acces- ! MILK SO RICH YOU CAN WHIP THE CREAM Produced Under Strict Laboratory Control For Daily Service PHONE 4-3121 General Ice Cream Corp. • • • • • : sone~ 1 • • · 5 $25 to $35 ! - . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • I JOSEPH'S ! • • • • • • : Stan J()seph Union '21 : •• • • • • • l!;;;;;;;;;;===;;;;;;;=======lliillllll········································••i ............ To All Alumni, Undergraduates, and Their Friends On This Memorable Week-end SPECIAL .DINNER Turkey Dinner with All .Fixings 75c SATURDAY NIGHT SUPPER A LA CARTE HALE HOUSE IN ALL COLORS AND WEAVES $1.65 to $3.00 • ~tiN HAM'S MEN'S SHOP 179 Jay St. SMARTEST DINNER CLUB IN THE CAPITAL DISTRICT Minimum Charge 50c Week Days • $1.00 Saturdays and Holidays • Your Favorite Chef MAC WAY formerly of The ANTLER'S CLUB DINNER MUSIC 6 - 8 . ................... \\' .................. ~ ...... .. DINNER SERVED EVEN! NSS 5 ~ 8 OFFERING OUR SPECIAL 75c DINNER ALSO A LA CARTE • OUR DINNER SHOW PROMPTLY AT 7:00 Featurin9 LEON FIELDS and Complete Change of Show • CELEBRATE ALL-COLLEGEWEEK·END WITH FUN AND FROLIC AFTER THE DANCES Music Continued At 9 Until Closing Late Show II :00 and 12:30 .. .......... _. .. ~ Caterin9 to Dinner Parties Banquets Clubs • Prop. and Mgr. John F. GibborlS • Phone 6-9852 Outing ' By FRED! Without que lege was faun have been par outing club Pearson, in i hotan::y .field tr Howe Cavern: Captain Jack other g1·oup w• hiking. And, : nets before th club, a gun c tramp club, a boggan club, group -with : ley's Point o been formed. However, 1 club as such present· orga: by Robert Ca E. Willtan:s Wyatt '32. ·Si ing Club hru now it is one undergraduai joined the . • Clul>c AssOCI! boastS ten th• senting upwl At ;!trst th' centered ar01 day hikes ar ing .rides on ever, tn 19&~ principal a< with ,other c ulaJ:> .and -su• Vassl).r Outi New York, group's I'eni Creek. In the. sp Williams Wl the Executi' tercolleg-iate tion. Union I. 0. C. A. Ma.xcy DistJ This is a mE eat-ly in Se the member clubs band dusting we mountain • Union has Week each At Nortl:J Got•e Moun has an u Mountain v six: hundrec of fifty m.r from expet season the ea.xly Nove :Since it: Cl11b has c nectady \ work on t These are when sn<>• cl11b does locality to Union hl la.st year -v invited to carnival a lack of qu forced the vitation .. lng trips i carnivals York an proven Jl usually in a.nd squat l:ilg ra.ces, One of Club has tion and undergra, in the 01 take par minimun: be able :North CJ \'!thin tll In In \Union 01 esteem, 1 :Is actual ]leak wa three n: committ• Outing chosen f ert L. B College John R. ex.ecutiv .At th dents in the OutJ Last m.emorl ward 'I 1832 in. snow b( Mt. W Elh!re,b a profe years, c In this Outing S}lOt be' on the siding • in July The alumni at No1 efciJ; ~

16 until ch the ory of Jarnet, e pres- in this tore- ry past 1 pride 'Ioward 'astime rs ago; was a al than at ion Union ents of . ry tra- Well to - It , ·ts IES - 'Outing Clubs At Union~ By FREDERiC A. WYATT Without question, since the cole: lege was founded in 1'795, students: have been participating in various' outing club activit.ies. Pearscn, tn his .diary, speaks batam;y .field trips .in the vicinity Howe Caverns. At ·a later Captain Jack was· the leader of other group which was interested hikjng. And, accord~ng to the nets before the year 1895, a boating club, a gun club, a bicycle club, a. tFamp club, a snovJshoe club, a to· bogg;;tn club, and :a camp union group ~ith headquarters at Rip- ley's Point on Lake George had been formed. Readers not rippling stream above aJS Hmot's kill-that's its ·real name, however. It's tile \brook that l;)ounds through Old Union's gt•ounds\. However, thene was no outing club as such until 1933 when the present· organization was founded by Robert Carver North '36, Walter E. Williams '37, and Frederic A .. Wyatt '32. :Since that time the Out- -------~------­ ing Club has grown rapidly until now it is one of the most important undergraduate groups. In 1933 it · joined the Intercollegiate Outing Concordy Columns CluJ:>, Association, a group which Continued from Page 7) boasi:s ten thousand· members repre- . the pseudonym of Webb, was pub- senting upwards of thirty colleges. lished. In 1914-15 Jefferson Del- At ;ttrst the outing Club activity champs ruled ovet• the Clatter Col- centered .around week-end and Sun- umn, which contained a little of day hikes and even included hitch- everything imaginable, and was a ing rides OJl. the Barge Canal. Row- very convenient space filler. This ever-, i:n 1934-35 skiing became the , was succeeded by On Your Way, principal activity. Joint outings . written by Ralph Knight, author of witb ~ther colleges were quite pop-· the Dutchman Song. ular .and such a meeting with the · The first bit of titled sports com- o t t , i ment appeared in 1911 and was Vassl).r u ing Club a Phoemc a, known as Footballets. It wasn't un- New 'York, led eventually to the THE OONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 5., 1937 he set by Ita C. Werle, Jack M St M • ·1 stein, Joe Saidel, AI Baechlin, · any range USICa old Freedman, Milt Berger, AI Groups Here m· Past Stevenson, MHt Bedell, and our own · · . . Carl Trahman. Arthur Wallace Hepner in 1931 pioneered in the fteld of Music . Columns, He was notably followed by Rankine Hinman and Tony · Sharpe, who paved the way for· : Herbert Fox. There had always . been. a certain number of theatri- 1 cal t·eviews an<i movie criticisms,· · but Fran ·Townley and Jack Dowl- ing first organized such criticisms: efficientty in 1934 and i936, tively . . Following Ralph Knight's On Your Way the number of general columns has been legion. However, in the course of some twenty years certain ones have stocd out. Among these are the Colporteur, phil- osophic In type, which appeared in 1926; Sidney D. Markman's Ran- dom Observations, 1933-34; Cadman Hislop's Let the Grecian Dream, 1930-31; Stan Costale'13 Ta:ke It or Leave It, 1931-32, and Ferdinand Helin's Column, 1!135-37. Others were Easy on the Eyes, by one Ignotus, otherwise known as Har- old A. L!],rra.bee, 1931-35; Middlesex Notes by Paul W'assmansdorf, 1933\34·; and Around the World, wherein Richard Synder gave the lowdown on international politics, from 1935 to 1937. The musical life of Union Col- lege since the year 1S77 has taken many strange forms and under- gone countless changes. In that period singing played a much' greater part than It does now,· each fraternity having an official vocal quartet. The serenading of local belles was a popular custom~ It was in this year that Psi Upsilon organized, not ~ mere quartet, but a fun fledged glee club, thus establishing a strong interest in the college glee club which has been maintained to the present day. Two years earlier the \Centennial\, which was the predecessor of the \Garnet\ lists a combination glee club and orchestra. This organiza- tion was the first official orchestra· listed ·in the yearbooks. In 1879 a small instrumental ensemble was formed, playing the current musical show favorites. One of the most interesting musical organizations was the Ter- race Orchestra. This novel (and probably unmusical) group cml- sisted of a dozen men playing the following array of instruments: Harmonicas, tambourines, guitars, fish horns (a horn about a foot In length with a reed that played one note), bones {two long ·bones together and knocked together like castenets), and a bass drum. The. motto of this novel club was,' \Enter Dean; Exeunt Omnes.\: Another group of the same variety was started. In 1924 which consisted of mandolins and musical .saws. From 1890 until 1924 one of chief outlets for musical e~pres­ sion was the Mandolin Club. This started as• a small ·group of man- players ap.d through the years. developed into an organiza- tion of thirty-five musicians, in- cluding violinists, flutists, cellists, and pianiSts as well as mando- linists. The organization travelled with the glee club and gave short concerts. This group later split into two organizations, a classical ensemble and the Garnet Goblins. Goblins are still active but the classical orchestra became de- funct ln the last of the 1920's. Other obscure musical societies include :banjo and ukelele clubs, and various fraternity vocal and instrumental groups. BIKI Died, :NDvernber second, Rild, beloved black chow of the Burges Johnson family; a citi- zen of this eampus, interested in many student friends, atten- tive to learning, and intensely loyal to those he lo'\'ed and served. Page Nine Second Freshman Party With Skidmore a Success Union College freshmen enjoyed their second. party with the Skid- more freshmen last Saturday at Saratoga Springs. An afternoon dance in the Omnibus Theatre, din- ner at South Hall, a fencing exhi- bition by Olympic champion, Joseph Vince, and a Halloween dance was the pt•ogram of ·events. Mrs. Henry T. Moore, Miss Betty Davis, several members of the Skidmore senior class and the Union College Terrace Council were in charge of arrangements for the party at Skidmore. The success of the .second party was generally expressed by the Union freshmen who attended. Feliciano Gonzales, of Puerto Rico, who made his first visit to Skid- more with the group declared in an interview yesterday that his ex- pectations were adequately ful- filled. \Eve1• since I arrived at Union College I heard many favorable comments about Skidmore,\ said Gonzales. \The welcome the Skid- more girls gave to us was very splendid. In all instances they showed great feminine courtesy and hospitality.\ gro'llp'B :renting a cabin at North til 1928 that Union was to have a Creek.. genuine sports column-the Cam- pus Sportlight, by Milton M. Enzer. In the interim What They're Doing treated of sports news at other colleges, and occasionally of Union.· Enzer was followed in the example. Site Unusual In the. spring •Of 1935 Walter E. Wlllia.ms was elected a member of the Executive Committee of the In-· tercollegiate Outing Club Associa- -;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;:ij tion. Union was to be host to the I); I. 0. C. A. College Week in the Mucy District of the Adirondacks. This is a meeting which takes place early in September at which time the members of the different college clllbs band together for a brain- dusting week of hiking, camping, mountain climbing, and the like. Union has had charge of College Week each year since 1935. At North Creelc, the site of the Gore Mountain ski trails, the CLub has an. unusual Site. On Gore Mountain with an altitude of thirty- six:: hundred feet, there are upwards of fifty miles of ski trai}s ranging !rom expert to novice. The skiing season there usually runs :from JJarly November until late April. ~ince its inception the Outing Cl11b has cooperated wih the Sche- nectady Winter Sp01·ts Club in work on the Rotterdam ski trails. These are in excellent shape, and when snow conditions permit, the cl11b does not have to leave this ]o()ality to find a place to ski. Union has formed a ski team and last year was one of twelve colleges Invited to participate in the winter carnival at Dartmouth College. lack of qualified jumpers, however, forced the group to decline the in- vitation. A number of barn-storm- ing trips to college and community carnivals throughout northern New York and New England proven popular, Such weekends asually include old\fashloned rPUDQ and square dances, ski-joring, skat- li:lg races, as well as snow-shoeing. Features of Club One of the features of the Outing Club bas been the simple organiza- tion and the Iac;k of red All undergraduates who are int:erElStted.l in the .organization are eligible to take part, Trips are run with a minimum cost. The group hopes to be able to acquire some land at North Creek and to build a. cabin 'Within the next few years. In intercollegiate circles the 'Union Outing Club holds a place of Esteem, possibly a higher one tban js actually deserved. Last spring a :peak was rea.ched when two of the three members of the ex:ecutive oonunittee of the Intercollegiate Outing Club Association weTe chcsen from Union, They are Rob- ert L. Beebe '39 who had ch.arge of College Week in September and John R. Bergstrom '39 who Is the executive secretary. .At this time one in seven stu- dents in the college is a member of the Outing Ciub. Last sprin.g the club erected a memorial plaque in honor of Ed- ward Tuckerman of the class of 1832 In whose memory the famous ~cow bowl, T.uckerman's Ravine on M:t, W.ashington in New Hamp- Eibh·e, has ·been named. Tuclterxnan. . a professor at Amherst for many . years, did a great deal of field work In this vieinlty. The Da.rtmouth Outing Club has popularized the spot because the snow he1·e remains on the ground until late spring and skiing bas been possible there even In July. The Outing Club has also run alumni and I. o. c. A. ski weekends at North Creek as well as erciil ~qr preparqtory: school • • FOR 60 YEARS The Concordiensis has shown CLASS in. Journalism AND FOR 20 YEARS we have shown CLASS in Clothes e Hart-Schaffner-Marx Suits and Coats 8 Mallory Hats e Wilson Shirts and Hosiery e Hickok Accessories e McGregor Sportswear e Reversible Topcoats e Zipper-Lined Coats ~------------~ VI NICK'S MEN'S SHOP 467 State St. ' and Union College had been established 91 years when Thomas A. Edison moved to Schenectady the electrical business that has grown into the Schenectady Works of the General Electric Company. Inc. During the years, the relations between General Electric and Union College have been close. Charles P. Steinmetz. world-famous General Electric engineer. served on the Union faculty. The late Edwin Wilbur Ricea Jr •• President of General Electric, served as a Trustee of Union. And Union has made reciprocal contributions to G~neral Electric progress. Among the graduates of 240 American colleges who now form part of the G-E personnel, the sons of Union are playing an honorable and conspicuous part in contributing the economic and cultural advantages of electricity to the ·growth of the American nation. GENERAL fl ELECTRIC

.r· Page Ten THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1937 GONGO ·RDIENSIIS', current pl:oduct. :Recent issues Cohen Renun\ ;sees themselves and the editors in hot But as long as our heart manages, 1921, Dr .. Cave!t ha~ ~spent .Prt;c· . i which I have seen havE pleased me -\ water _ to everybody's delight. to function with its overload of ticaNy h!S entire m1mstry m m· A ·N~~.Iv· E'R~ .i'I'R·Y·· ~~~~~~t. both as to fm·m and as to They suffered fro~ temperament, obesity, we shall continue to sigh: terdenominational work.. . 11 ~IM It is a strange and wondelful at times, and once in a while from gustily for the good old days of: He graduated fr?tp. Um~m m the --- T·be first Concordiensis work of thing when, only four months an alcohol, but the editors could put four months ago. . ·class of 1910, ·recelvmg hts _maste,I' (Continued from Page 2) ~ine which was considered of any' alumnus, one is called upon offi- on as good an act in that way- S. R. Cohen, ~3:f. , of arts degree f.romColumbta Um- Proudfit, Whitehorne, Ja..c!Lson, tmportance kwas during the regime cially to reminisce. so ·none of the artists were really - .. -· -·--o·~-~ . versi'ty in 1914 and the bachelor of Wayland, Yates and other <ild land- • of Hitchcoc in 191 3-1. 4 , rt was a· It Is also a rather dangerous one 'out of the fold for long. divinity degree from the Union marks of the college. rlhen I :series of stories called,. \The Joys -one cannot say \Dear old So-and- Since the Concord! was more or Cavert to Deliver Sermon Pheologica:l Seminary in 1915 · thought of what Union haa don.e .-1nd Sorrows of the Section Gang.\ so, he was an almighty pain and less devoted to recording news- A.t· Services on Sundav ·Lawrence College c~;>nferred the for that still greater Unio:n, the: Eithel· in the spring or fall of we hated the right of ·each other,' we had a g.reat time merely fol- \ honorary degree of doctor of di- Union of the Federal State:s ... 1914 the \Clatter C<Jlumn\ was because Dear old So-and so is still .lowing the occurrences ·of the day· . vinity upon him in 1928 • and Union then of the names of men wbo had. established, and I qu.ote you the very much alive and so, probably, . ~Milt Enzer's trick photo of the In conjunction with tne \Home-' gave him the :same degtee in 1935 ; gone forth to take up life's battle piece of clatter which T 'happen to is his dislike. Psi U Memorial, the Skidmore ex-· coming\ · of hundt:eds of Union o--- and had rendered noble serl.(ice to remembe!' best from that column Nevertheless there are memories changes, the soup and tl.sh-Rosa. College alumni for. th.e annual fall· li;nzeJ' D·I'SC·l.lSSeS Freedom k . d J h H d ..., 'Jf foolishness: wht'ch . have survt'ved the fou· 1 • f H 1· H d D S 1 M ~ man m . . . o n owal' ·.rayne, Teutoni opening o · a e · ouse, CoUe15e Week-en , r. amue c- author of \Home Sweet Home,\ 'It's great to be an editor months' test, and certainly a list the abolition of The Idol in whose Crea Cavert, geneva! secretary of· . . Robert Toombs, ... Sheldon. Jack- And sit up late at n·ig-ht, of them cannt disturb the Con- defense we ground axes in a gos-' the Federal- Council of Churches;· Fnday, Oct. 9~Mll.ton M. Enze,n, son . . . Austin Blair . . . Henry And scratch your wool and shoot cordi's sixty-year-old equanimity. ' first pair of .spats, Dr. Danton and, in America and a graduate of, assistant to the president for p~b- Philip Tappan • , . Cha1·Ies Emo1-y the bull, Our earliest memory (before we sip c<>lmnn all our own, Dr. Fox's Union, will deliver the sermon at : lie announcements was ~he prm· Smith ..• William H. Seward • . . And write and write and write.\ could use the editorial plural) was the sheep, and Freddy Wyatt's ter- the chapel services on Sunday cipal spea~er . at the publtc forum Chester A. Arthur . . . With best wishes for the con tin- of George Corey, '35, ripping up rifle vitality. morning at 11 o'clock in the Me-. on. soc1al JUStice spo.nsored by th.e To presm·ve the t1adi tio rus, in ued success of The Concm•diensis the front page one morning just It was all great fun-even moria! Chapel. Temple Beth Emeth m Albany, FrJ- thought and in deed, of ani nstitu- under your guidance. before Thanksgiving to cry \trea- · though we slept for two months General secretary for the Fed-· day night, October 29. He spoke on tion that o;tarted as a pione~r, and H. J. Delchamps, ' 15 son!\ agains some poor faculty straight after the last fracas of eva! Council of Churches since· 'Academic Fteedom.\ that forever dares to pioneer, seems J915 16 As near.Jy as I can rnember-.and thereby, it must be the Gridiron Dinner's cream cheese to me to justify the existence of our • recall, I \\Went out for\ admitted, setting a dangerous prec- and jelly sandwiches were scraped coHege newspaper .. PerhaJls, after the Concordy as a :freshman in edent for the rest of our editorial off the walls of the theatre and all, the Concordy is valuable fo1· 1912. The paper was then publish- career. the new staff threw us out of our something more than to 1 ecord ed in a kind of magazine form and And then there was the time cluttered desk in the office. passing events .. Perhaps •il doeo;,\ came out every wcelt or so. H. H. when we assigned ourself to inter- Of course, it had its had points besides, play its part by w-eaving Hitchcoclt; was the E:ditor (I be- view the Russian ballet-a:nd ended -especially the 3 a. m. wallts to those passing events into a ,golden lieve he is Supt. of Schools at Hud- up with six prepair cocktails, two the press, a tender conscience ac- chain that binds a vital present to son Falls now). One d.iary entry orchestra seats, a nodding acquaint- acquired while cadging engravings. When man bites dog •• THAT'S NEWS! the vitality of a splendid past... mentions that he was in trouble ance with three prima ballerinas Martin H. Weyrauc~, '08 with the faculty ove.:r an article and a real Russian prince, and a 1908 09 My congratu:lations about \excuses\, Another entry of leanJng toward aest.heticism which - to the ··concordy\ on Friday, March 13, 19:14 records a did much to disci edit us forever attaining the age of sixty. I can ~oncordy Board banquet at the after. · hardly believe that it was VOJhile I ew Vendorne. Johnny Bennett, A bit different was the attempted was on the staff that its tb:irtieth Toastmaster, \Prexy\ ·(Richmond) interview with Ina Ray Hutton. and Mr. Clinton (Librarian) were when with J. Robert Dorg we stood anniversary took place. t Th The paper was usually a.t\'venty- presen • e entry states that it outside the Proctor's Theatre fo1 l was the first of the lti nd ever he\ld. some hours, only to find that Mis~ two to twenty-eight page, t'i\'o co - umn magazine published every two A programme with ·It evidently Hutton was being monopolized by weeks. It contained very llt'tle ad- done in India ink has a drawing of a formidable squad of determined vertising and the editor ~sually Pr~f. ~ennett delivering a toast Theta Deltas. had quite a job filling the space an · usmg his favol'ite adjective Under the heading of \Now It with 1 eadable material. 1 recall \auspicious\ in a rather incongrous Can Be Told\ is the occasion two h ~tatement: \This is a most aus- years ago when the Conco1·di led spending a large part of the nig t · · C PlCious ' oncordy'.\ .. N'at\ Finch the state in p1otest again~t the before the paper was to go to press at the old \Star\ office on Jay was my assistant edit<Jr, Avrom Nunan-Devanny loyalty oath bil 1 - Jacobs was Uterary E-<litor and my because it had nothing else to write Street, reading proof, matllng up brother, James B. Ta:ylor, was as- editorials about and because the lo- the pag-es and writing rna ter-iaL for · t t Li E a last fill in. SIS an t. d. ca:l ·space-writers made 10c an inch Very sincerely yours, Richard E. Taylor, '16 on them. James B. Well~.,;, '09: }9}6 17 I should like to con- That was the beginning of the 1909 10 It is with a co'llsider- - able degree of pleasure that I send a brief word of greet- ing and congratulation to you, the Editor of the Concordie.nsis in the sixtieth year of its publication. Those Union men who have had the privilege of serving their- Alma Mater as editor of the \Con. cordy\ are, I am certain, justly pro!:>ud of that fact and feel that in so- doing they also derived a great dlea 1 of personal benefit. So, congratulations to youon this anniversary and best wishoes fo1· another successful year In tine his- tory of the \Concord.y\ a\s you strive to carry on the traditf:on.s of \Old Union beside the Mohawk Vale\! H. G. Van Deusen, '10 - gratulate the staff of short-lived pink-streak period in The Concordiensis on the event of the sheet's hist01y. Its only sur- the publication's sixtieth anlver- viva! was the historic document sary. While I do not ha.ve the Jlleas- (concocted by the staff) which ure of reading every Issue of the bullied the administration into giv- paper, I follow it with some regu- ing the South College slums new larity and take pleasure In observ- showers. The administration's <Dr. ing the high standard of the edi- Fox, of course) only comment was torial performance. something like \at least they can The anniversary is particularly write English.\ interesting to myself because it re- But the greatest delight of the minds me that my term. in the past year was the columnist staff.· chair happens to lta.ve occurred With amazingly little encourage- just twenty years ago, and that be- ment they managed to keep both ginning with the fall sEssion of col- lege that year, the .paper was is- sued in the physical form in which it now appears. Before that, The Concordiensis came out in .book form as a weekly, a so1t of a com- bination news and literary maga- zine. Ernest W. Mandeville, '17. COLLEGE STUDIO 114 Jay St. Photos for Any Occasion 1911 12 The Concordlensis in ~fm-~(C~on~t!~n;u~e;d~o~n~P~a~g~e~1~1;) HmOO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i - ''my day\ Wll!S run .. ;.ull:\!u::l'::nmllllllllffiiUIT quite the same way as it ~as dur- ing the thirty-five years of publi- cation prior to 1911-1912 and dur- Ing the twenty-five years since- with all the loyalty and enth-usiasm which are a part of the undergrad- uate editor and his associates. You are to be congratulated for putting out the Union College pa- per \Vhich, now, stands high among collegiate publications. In my year I urged, thl'ou.-gh the college paper, a course ill jour- nalism, if only a lecture coe:~rse. I have always hoped that Union would have <>ne. In such a oeourse I feel emphasis should be put on the good old King's English .and on the way to say what is to be said in a few words. Henry A. Schermerhorn. '12. 1 '9}2 13 The Conco1c..liensis • as it approach-es its sixtieth birthday impresses ltlle as being a more smooth and st.ream- lined publication than it 1vas in ttie days of 1912-13 when large- ~ wheeled, brass trimmed autorno·- ~ biles embellished the carnpcus on ~ Saturday afternoons during foot- ball season. Our method of !J;'etting out the Concordy was crud·-e and slow as compared with yours and we devoted hours of our tim: e, but were sufficiently enthusiasti<: and conscientious to occasion all)' :forego taking our best girls to the garne, fearing that their charming pres- ence might prevent our obt.aining and writing up a clear a11d .accur- ate account of the game for the paper. The Concordy was set .\:1p by hand in my time and its co.voer de- sign was changed as frequently as we could find talent to sub:mit a sketch worthy of the front page. honor and the expense of hal7ing a • special cut made. That our judg- ment often was bad I now lm ow to be a fact, at the time however, we never doubted its accuracy. Frederick S. Harris. '13 1913 14 Let me congi'a'tulate • the Concordiensi~. 011 having reached its sixtieth lbirth- day. Svrely a ripe maturity fo1· any enterprise. Union College of today is a great improvement over the Union Col- lege of two decades ago, my Union College. ln the same mannar-, the Concordy of today is a grea£ im- provement over the pape1· of 1913- 14, when 1 was Editor. H. Herman Hitchcoclt, '14 1914 1 ·5 In reply to you!:\ let- •. ter o~ October 21, I 11;rar Vr •.. 1l;tar lfr ... • After Ye Game. and lfYe Want to Rollnd Out a Week-end of Pleasan~ tries. All Y e AUUMNI and UNDERGRADS Meet at Ye Olde Standby. to Par- take of Vitals and Good Cheere. • THE. UNION INN 517 UNION STREET \The Meetl119 Plar:e of Union Men for Years\ TONY OFFERS 'HIS CONGRATULATIONS TO THE CONCORDIENS.IS ON THEIR 60TH ANNIVERSARY wish first of aU to; congratmlate you and your assistants tipotL the · ijiJIIII~IIllliiiW~IIII~illfllllit~IIHI!IIWiillDIIIilliUlliiiJIIll:IIIJJIIIrllllJIIItiUIIIImlllilliiiii'Uillfl:lliUIIIIIIIIIlliflllllllllllilllliUIWWJIIIIIIIIIII1111JJJIIIi!lnWUI.IIIIHI!lliUJJIIIIIIIJlllllllllllillllffiiiiWIIilli • Congratulations To Concordy And you don't have to be a Concordiensis reporter to realize this when you bite into a hot dog r:nade and sold by Student Service men at the Rochester game. JACOB'S PHARMACY A bit of timely advice-whether you lager or not buy 'era bottle of Coca-Cola. -Refreshment Division • Pipe Headquarters e Drugs • Prescriptions STUDENT SERVICE BUREAU e Fountain Service Prest\Vn T. Reed, Senior ~fanag<:>r Nearest the campus-Just outside Green Gate I. J. Linsey Union '22 Over a Century of Service • • • Established as a weekly in the year 1812, the Sche- nectady Gazette is the oldest newspaper now publish- ed in the Capitol District and one of the oldest publica- tions in this section of the State. Actually the history of the Schenectady Gazette dates back to 1799 with intermittent periods of publi- cation during the first half century of its existence. Throughout the greater part of the second half cen- tury of the Gazette's history it has grown steadily wit~ the increasing population and the evel' \Videning territory covered by the city and its environs. It is a significant fact that during these years of de- velopment the growth and progress of the Gazette has kept pace with that of the city itself and the modern newspaper printed today in the Gazette's modern plant is. not the result of accident or luck ... but the r~s~lt of years of cons~ie~tious effort ... of adhering rigidly to standard prmc1ples and policies and a con- tinuous striving to publish a newspaper that Schenec- tadians may be proud to claim as their home town paper. Thus down through the years the Gazette has ad- vanced shoulder to shoulder with such institutions of the city as Union College, the General Electric Com- pany, the American Locomotive Company and the many others and pledges a continuance of its cooper- ation and support through the years to come. SCHENECTADY GAZETTE FROM (Continu ness manage important fa evolution in1 and I still re< co-operation ton. During 1 t:mes a week schedule wa: \\ eek tb.e foil derstand th1 gag~d today newspaper, b working get1 icnsis of 19J we used to t to do some: 1917-18 !Hte the wh birth of a 1~14. Volcan< s1uption. Frc azine the C to · •break fot campus thr the make-ur paper. It ws of Knight, ' deviLle, '17, two daring ism. I folic and Kenned ager. In tho veekly Con• ciple was tc tures of cla tne fterce E newspaper. We had Washburn were meag: in the best ·1 shop-shalt; tishing hal fl1ght of ' Street. The ment was 1 gentleman L.:oncordy c was set at 1 fice sever Armory. I ings to reE to Comeau bed. I sat u early to w stories. I 1• a typewrito thing final! -a. philit: pasquinadE with that experience at Corneal graduatioii salt in ne' Fr 1921-2: Oct. 21 t: continuing iensis, an< old colleg brate its I ice in No, It was elated wi1 cordiensis the Worl• Editor-in-c bring, no' New Yox managing was busit The edi College, the bullet able surr copy, cm downtowl up\ even type in t Friend] the editc and wit' Club, an an·angen created, ' an inter- as The lion !ate1 Chapter orary jo One d• of intere of the sl· The last slogan , Spanish und.ersts \When useless.\ staff ba that slo: know t1 word iii to creat causes : I persot adoptioJ in a bo• into thE to stay say abo 1924· cordi en and its In fil gradua stated ence v still th 1925 pres en· Concot to be! versar; You believE cordieJ ters o· or, m(

pent prae- try in in· lion in the his rhaster 1mbia Uni\ •achelor of the Union in 191:5. ·erred the :tor of di· and Union ee in 193$, 'reed om M. Enze.~, tt for pub- the prin· blic forum ~ed by the lbany, Fri- e spoke on FROM THE PAST I wore one. The official typewriter was a battered veteran inherited from my pvedecessor, Phil DuBois (Continued from Page 10) wh~ in addition to many other dis~ ness manager that year, was an tinctions was undoubtedly the tall- important factor in \Concordy's\ · est Editor-in-chief the Concordy evolution into a real newspaper, ever had. and I still recall with gratitude the Yes, The Concordiensis was mar~ co-operation of the late Dean Rip- velous fun,-and a proud responsi- ton. During 1917 we published three bility. Its editorship gave me much t;mes a weelt, but t believe that the that I value today perhaps even· schedule was reduced to twice a more than I did then. week the following year. I can un- H. Wynn Bussman, '26 derstand that reduction. I'm en- gaged today in getting out a daily newspaper, but it was a lot harder working getting out The Concord- icnsis of 1917. Every week or so ·we used to have an hour In which to do some studying. Ralph Knight, '17 1926 27 As a practicing · • newspaperman since .ny graduation a short decade ago, L have followed with increasing in- terest the rising fortune of The Jo.ncordiensis. Its steady improvement in con- .ent, appearance and literary style 1917 18 When I joined its .1as been a source of considerable : • staff the Concordy, 3atisfaction to me. Its .growing ma,.. lilte the whole world, was ·at the :urity o~ judgment, as reflected in birth ef a new era. This was in 'ditorial policy, is also a matter of 1~14. Volcanoes were everywhere in ,Jersonal gratification. THE CONCORDIE:NSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1937 to •brjlaking a story aboltt the col- of this journalistic esprit de corps lege. f>,.n effort was made to cover on the ,part of your editorial staff. more thoroughly than eve!\ before· James Dean Allen, '31. all ·campus activities. By enlarging: the page size more news .could be }t\32 33 May I extend my .print~d. And short ite!Uil· by the· \J • hearty congratulations· scorfr kept Union men Informed to the staff of The Concordiensis al>ou't goings on at other colleges •. upon this, the 60th anniversary of CoDgratulations to the Concord!- the paper. ensis ·on its sixtieth birthda.y! May It is my belief that The Concord!· it continue to serve Union students ensis ranks well among small col- as a clear mirror of their •little· un-. lege newspaper·s and its effect in derg~aduate world, as a .forum of· stimulating and arousing student opinion, as an agency fo:r creating· opinion has and should be most a better college and better, ·more· pronounced. The offices are a roun<led Union men. credit to the paper and to the col- A. Bradford Wycoff, '28 'lege. I have visited several college 192 .9 30 I am very ha:ppy ' • that you have decided to ·commemorate the anniversary ·of the :founding of The Concordlensis • with an appropt·iate edition, and equally sorry that I cannot be on the <:ampus to watch you a:t work .. I am sure that the other members· of the senior editorial board of 1930, 'I'heodore Mcilwaine, Ira Werle and Rob·ert Bascom, join with me in wishing you continued s11ccess in. your work. newspaper editorial offices and doubt if there are any which come close to compar·ing with that of the Concordy. Undergraduates and the .. college might well be proud of the· modern layout at Union. May I say a word of appreciation to Dean Garis for the suggestion and under whose supervision the present offices were made possible. · William T. Eldred, '33 1 .934 3·5 As the.currentstand-, • ard bearers, you are. slightly .presumptuous to celebrate now stop Union College didn't dis- cover· Hs founder until one hundred forty two year·s after stop But here's to the old sheet long may she wave stop With sixty yeats gone how about translating the name ConcordieMis. Van Trumbull, '36. 1936 37 The Concord! ens Is · ~ ,· served the college and Its alumni with ends no different GENTER'S RESTAURANT Dine and Dance Every Night We Feature Home Cooked Foods PHONE 4-2580 VanVranken Ave. at Hattie St. Schenectady, N. Y. Page Eleven than those of any newspaper. It sought to get more than It gave. Perhaps to explain this odd state- ment more clearly I might say the Concordiensis afforded us an oppor· tunlty to write and to particfpate in a vital activity, and as a second thought, to convey important ·news to the reader. Our chief aim was to maintain and .perpetuate one of Union's oldest and most progressive activities, The Concordiensls. Norman Stewart, '3'1' CONNELLY BROTHERS DAIRY Inc .. 1858 Hamburg Street PHONE 2-0910 H. F. kreck:man, 'ZO stuption. From a little weekly mag- I take genuine pleasure, there- azine the Concordy was presently ~ore, in offering heartiest congrat- to · •break forth and illuminate the llations on the occasion of The campus three times a week with Joncordiensis' 60th birthday and the make-up of a four page news- .n extending every good wish for paper. It was then under the aegis .he future. of Knight, '17, as editor, and Man- Charles G. Hasltell, '27 }'9-.JO 31 In those days we deville, '17, as business manager- . ..:1 • \got out the Concordy'' deserving of congratulations upon liFr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ the 60th birthday of this fine publi- · cation. The unbroken chain of six: two daring adventurers in journal- 1927 28 Now in those days in a. room at Washburn H:all, w·ith ism. I followed Knight as editor - the Idol was a new- extremely limited facilities and a and Kennedy, '18, as business man- i»orn magazine as well as the name negligible filing system. ager. In tho'se first days of the tri- ·of a statue, Professor Herrick's Tlle editorial offices you now veekly Concordy our guiding prin- Advanced Composition students. hav~ on the second flocr of Silli- ciple was to combine the b~st f~a- nere the snobocracy of the campus rnan Hall and which r: examined tu.res oi classical scholarship Wlth llmost every one had a pocketfui ·on a recent visit to the ca.mpus in- tne f1erce enterprise of a ·modern ~f speakeasy cards and no college . dlcated more than a mere collegiate newspaper. nan doubted that the world was reproduction of the city t•oom of a We had our editoiial office in J.is waiting oyster. They were hec- daily newspaper. It also indicated Washburn Hall. Its furnishings ~ic, dazzling days. that The Concordiensis had de· were meagre. The typewriter was And hectic, dazzling days on the veloped from a campus publication in the best tradition of a newspaper :Joncordiensi.'l, too. Hectic because for the dissemination of college decades speaks for the integrity of the Concordiensis which has played such an important role ·in recording the activities of Union College. I take the liberty of tendering the. well-wishes of my colleagues, Milt. Berger, Bill Fitzgerald, Ted Whip- ple and Joe Woolman, to the news- paper on this milestone in its life. 'iVe wish the Concordiensis contin- ued success and the respect of the friends of Union College. Clemens F. Hathaway, '35 Compliments BRANDHORST PHARMACY \On the Corner\ UNION ST. and GILLESPIE L. H. Brandhorst L. E. Branclhorst shop-shaky in the keys. 'l'he pub- 3 omething was always doing. Dazz- news into a newspaper ln. its own 1935 36 Pianissimo congrat- lishing house was up a rickety ling because advertising revenue rigbt. The quality of your news sto- • ulations on Concordy's. fhght of stairs in South Centre ~arne in 60 freely that despite the ries today indicates the maturity sixtieth birthday stop Isn't it ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ft Street. The head of this establish- ;taff's rank extravagance Ray ~=:==:==:=~=:==:==:==:==:==:=;:::;;;=:==:=;;;;:::;;;;;:::;;:::;;:::;;;=:==:==:=;:::;=:=;:::;=:=;:::;:=;ij (; ment was Mr. Comeau, an obliging . 3r!ggs, business manager, could f gentleman usually frantic because ;till show a handsome profit at'· L!oncordy copy was late. The type year's end. ' was set at a Socialist newspaper of-· Suckling from the Columbia lice several .blocks above the Spectator and Henry L. Menoken's Armor·y. I used to go there morn- American Mercury, the Cordy re- lngs to read proof and afternoons !:lected the blase, sophisticated, cyn- to Comeau's to put the paper to ical undergraduate atmosnhere. bed. I sat up late or sometimes rose Editorials, steeped in caustic and early to write editorials and news . bedecked with polysyllabic deroga- stories. I learned to sit in front of tions, criticized everything from the a typewriter and stare until some- Blue Gate east and north. Lambast- thing finally appeared on the paper ing, lampooning and poo-pooing -a philippic, a lampoon or a continued at ever increasing pitch pasquinade. This training, together until Prexy Richmond felt impelled with that I received by practical to take summary action, CONGRA.TULATIONS TO THE CONCORDIENSIS FOR 60 YEARS OF SUCCESSFUL PUBLICATION FROM FLORAL SHOP OVERHEAD CR.OSSING-STATE ST. PHONE 4-6444 Congra·rulations to the Concordiensis from GAFFER'S DEALER IN Hudson Niagara Coke experience in making up the paper It was the staff's constant joy to at Comeau's, was invaluable after tb~e~a~t~t~h~e~G~az~e:tt~e~o~r~t~h~e~U~n~~~·o~n~-S~ta:r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~======~~==~~~~~~~~~~~~~====~~~=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:~=:=:=:=:~~~~~ araduation when I bad to earn my : ~alt in newspaper work. Frederick G. Bascom, '18 1921 22 I was delighted to • find in your letter of Oct. 21 tangible evidence of the continuing virility of the Concord- iensis and to learn that this fine old ~allege publication will cele- brate its 60th anniversary of serv- ice in November, 1937. It was my pleasure to be asso· elated with the staff of the Con- cordiensis both before and after the World War, and to serve as editor-in-chief in 1921-22. Lou Se- bring now night city editor of the New 'York Herald Tribune, was managing editor, and Charlie Locke was business manager. The editorial office was in South College, between the chapel and the bulletin board, In these favor- able surroundings the staff wrote copy conveyed it to the printer dow~town, and assisted in \make up\ even to the extent of placing type In the forms. Friendly relations were had with the editors of other publications and with officers of the Press Club, and through these working arrangements tlle various editors. created, in the Concordiensis office an inter-publication council known as The Ink Spot. This organiza- tion later became the Union College Chapter of Pi Delta Epsilon, han· orary journalistic fraternity. One development which may be of interest to you was the selection of the slogan for the Concordiensis. The last time I saw a copy that slogan was still there, printed in Spanish and telling all capable . of understanding that language that \When a cause is lost, words are useless.\ I think those of us on the staff back In 1921 and 1922 took tbat slogan pretty seriously, and I know that we utilized about every word in our collective vocabulary to create understanding of various causes an dissues. I suppose that I personally am to blame for the adoption of that slogan. I found it in a book in the library, sllpned it into the mast, and nailed it there to stay the while I had anything to say about the sheet. Victor H. Scales, '22 1924 25 It is a pleasure to • congratulate The Con- cordiensis on its increasing antiquity and its present vigor. In filling out the application for graduation a dozen years ago I stated that my best college experi- ence was editing the Concordy. I still think so. Philip B. DuBois, '25. 1925 26 Sixty years o 1 d! · . · a Congratulations to the present Editorial Staff of The Concordiensis for having managed to be at the helm on such an anni~ versary! You moderns may find it hard to believe, but in my day The Con- cordiensis had no official headquar- ters oth~r than the Editor's study or, more e~etly, hla bat, w)leu. )le •· .... _._•:•:> Chesterfields give everyhody more pleasure Take out a pack and it draws 'em like a magnet . . . right away smokers crowd around for that refreshing MILDNESS and BETTER TASTE ..... · .·••· ....... if smokers rningtoem ever!/ da!J · ..• · /

Page Twel-ve CALE::NDA.E Today COLLEGE WEEKEND 6:30 p. m..- Ahunni Dinner, Hale li<>use. 8::00 Jl. m.-~pen House, Geology Depal'tment. mltte-e Meetlng, Gmduate 8:00 p. m.-Ex:ecuti·ve Commit- tee Meetlh.g, Graduate Coun- cil, D1•. Waldron's. Tom()rrow 10:00 a.. rn:-Dail:y .Assembly- Presentation of 1ilay Portrait, Memmial Chapel. 10:20 a. m.-Fa.ll Meeting, Gradual:e ·con.ncil, Trophy Room •of Gymnasium. 12:30 p. rn.-Buffet Luncheon, Graduate Council, Silliman Hall. 2:00 p. xn.-Varsity Football, Union vs. Rochester, Alex- ande:r:· .J.i\ield. followed by Re- ception; President's House. 4:00 to 6:00 p. m.-Neutral Tea Dane e, Hannah. Hall. SllDday 11:00 a.. rn.- Sunday Service, Pl'eacher, Dr. Sallluel McCrea Council of Churches, Mem- orial Chapel. 4:00 p. IlL-Organ Recital, Dr. E. A.. Tidmarsh, Memorial Chapel. F1·aternities Hold Dances Satu1·day (Continued from Page 3) meadow, Mass. Zita McMahon, Mechanicville, Cornelia Harrison, Wellesley. Jane Stephenson, Buf- falo. Katherine Gibbs, Boston. Kathleen Bayley, Troy. Ruth Yeaw, Greenfield, Mass. Peggy Foley, Manhattansville College. Harriet Schwertly, Passaic, N. J. Mary Dibble, Albany. Chaperones: D1·. and Mrs. Robert Maxon and Pro· fessor and Mrs. Donald Emblem. Orchestra: Gordie Randall. Delta. Upsilon Delta Upsilon will hold a tea dance after the game and dancing Saturday nig.ht, to the music of Don Weston's ot·chemra. Patrons are: Dr. and Mrs. Dixon Ryan Fox, Dr. and Mrs. C. F. F. Garis, Mr. and Mrs. D. R. Weel>:s, Mr. and Mrs. H. B. Maxon, and Mr. and Mrs. E. C. Brandow. Patrons of the tea dance are: Dr. and Mrs. George H. Danton and Dr. and Mrs. Frederick Bronner. The guests: The Misses Dorothy Hobbs, of Bronxville; Pat Everly, of Skidmore; Paula Spratt, of Phil- adelphia, Pa.; Jane Maxwell, of Schenectady; Mar•y Auffeffer, of .AJ. bany; Char·lotte Langois of Platts- burgh; Beatrice M:arhafer, of Sche· nectady; Edna Dayton, of Albany; Nancy Fairbanks, of Schenectady; Helen Zelt, New York City; Betty Welnhofer, Albany; Evelyn Con- noly, Schenectady. Mo:nday Also the Misses Jean Helen Cor- MAKEUP TESTS by, of Englewood, N.J.; Jean Buck- 1:30 p. m .• -International Rela- land, Russell Sage; Dorothy Bent, tions Club Meeting, Social West Hartford, Conn.; Dolores Studies Office, :Bailey Hall. Brant, Westfield, N. J.; Evelyn Neigh, Skidmore; Jeanne Saffer, 4:30 J>. m.-Publlc Speaking Albany; Rita Martin, Springfield. Class, Old ChapeL Mass.; Mary Lou Slocum, Hoosic 7:30 p. Dl.--Ban.d Rehearsal, Falls; Ann Schiefer-decker, Del- Trophy Roe>m, Gyrrmasium. ham; Florence Jackson, Russell Sage; and Barbara Randall, New Tuesday Rochelle. 10:00 a. m.-Daily A.ssembly, Also Mr. Lloyd Monell, Uni·versity Speaker, Harry A. Hall, Di- of Pennsylvania with Miss Theo vision of the Budget, Mem- Currier, of Vassar. orial Chapel. 8ig'Dia Chl 1:15 p. rn.-Garden Club Sig.ma Chi will hold a formal Luncheon, Hale House. dance on Saturday; Frank Flem- ming's orchestra will play. Chaper- 3:00 p. m.-~Garden Club Meet- ones are: Mr. and Mrs. George ing, Old Chapel. Fiedler, Dr. an·d Mr·s. Sylvester J. THE GONOORDIENSTS, FRIDAY,NOVEMBER 5,1.937 NO!TICES Guests are: The Misses Ma1:ie:.sup:per after the game, follbwed by O'Keefe, Betty :Brownell, M:-ar:y Fre-:: dancing- .f.rom nine to twel·ve. The liclt, Patricia Devour, Marie 'F'itz;-: orchestt\a is Al Schunacher's. Junior eiass Pictures: gerald, Mary Mathison, !della Ed-,:Ch.aperones: Professor an.d Mrs. It is essential that each member gar, all of Schenectady; the Nisses:•Eobert W. Abbett, Mr. and' Mrs. T. of the Junim Class be .prompt in· impo1•tant meeting of the Camera Club Monday, Nov. 8, in Silliman Hall 7:30 P. M. Elinor Mc·Carthy, Fall R.ive1•, :Mass.;.: S:pencet• \Brown. keeping ?i~ appointment for The, Pe Meeting--There will be a pep Ruth Burhans, Kingston; :Jane,. The g-uests: 'The misses Vi·rginia Garnet s1tt1ng that ha.s ·been s~mt meetfn.g tonight at 7:30~ The ·stu- Gardiner, Richmond, Virginia; Lou E. H:a;res, •Skidmore; Dorethy J. to him through the. mall. In setbng d t 'body will meet in front of the Hess, Lowville; and Bai\bu·a ·C.,,Fisher, Skidmore; Janet E. Koff, the appointment ea'?h man's sched-: e~asium to heal.' a short talk Woodland, Watertown, Mass. : N. J. ~allege for Women; !Regina ule wa.s con.sulte_d 1n .order to. set fiom Nels Nitchinan and will then Theta Delta. Chi ; Luplta,. Schenectady; Gail Kerste, the most convement time possrble, 'march through the campus and Theta Delta Chi will h ld a da.nce:,.AIJ:~an.y State; !Marcia Eurn~tt, and also arrange that everyone can, d town with the band. .sa:turday night t th 0 sic f A.l! Shdmore; Eleanor Downs, Skrd- be taken care of in two ·days, No-, own · , • 0 e .mu 0 •• 'more; Mary Margaret Pappa, .Al- vember 9 and 10. -----~------~- Thomas ~~c~estra. Chapemnes are. :'bany State; l.lolly Boorse, Bloom- Dr .and M.rc, Russe.ll A. EaJl ~d ·:field•, N'. J.; Doris Rinker,. :Bloem- Dr. and Mrs. Frederick .c . .Sc:tnn1dt., :field; ,:Jane !March, Linden. Hall; The guests: The M1sses ~etty· M i n K' p· Skidmore· Jane Hamm, Schenectady; CM:elvaWJede-:,w~~l~r Sc~:n'ectady· Ludhe Nea- man, Schenectady; Joice ii:olden.- ton. .S~henectady; ·V\hnifred Tour- .smrth, Montreal, Quebec;_ :f!\ne n· s~henecta.dy· M:Hdred Tour- Faille, Russell Sage; Yug:mra;. !e.r, \ . : , . _ Wheeler, Schenectady; Emily- ·Wea-:· mer, Schenectad~, Ma!g~l'et Fall therwax, Russell Sage; Dor-is Estey,,. ner_:, Albany Stat~ •. MarJozre Ma,pes, Albany· Frances Wheele.l' Skid-';Siudmore; P:xtr1C1a Sanglyn, Col- more; Ruth Harvey, Sche~edady-; .lege ot S~ .. Rose; B~tty :Hauber~ May Young, Russell Sage; Helen:' l3loomfleld, Dorothy RICe, Schenec .Otis, Columbia; Thelma Blan~hard, tady, Skidmore; Mary O'Donnell, Albany·~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;; Slate; Barbara Prince, Skidmore ; · Dorothy Goodwin, Schene<!tady; Eileen Mitchell, Skidmore: Sally · Peebles, Skidmore; Mary J.anej· Bauers, Purdue U.; and •B-ernice~· Sanford, Connecticut State. ; : Kappa Sigma Kappa Sigma. will have a buffet< THE ELITE TAILOR 516 Union St. A Nl!.:W SYMBOL OF a national mganiza- tion dedicate to the sci- entif'ie control of d~iry products, this seal is your assurance of finer ice cream. Dave Yunich, Managing Editor. Camera. .Club-There will be an. .DeWitt's Lunch Room and Tap Room We Se:we Better Food for Better Health 118-120 JAY ST. ()pp. New City Hall For House Linen Service PHONE 4-3166 AMERICAN COAT. · AFRON & LAUNDRY. COMPANY 1030 Barrett S+. ~···············································: • • • • • • • • • • 5 FOR OVER 30 5 • • 5 YEARS - 5 • • • • • • • • • • • • 5 THE ·MEETING PlACE 5 TUXEDOS FOR RENT EXPERT TAILORING • • ·~2 i OF UNION MEN I - jl lc::E (~E.L\,\t . • • • • ~ ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~~~~~~~;;;;~~;;~~! • • • • • • • • GUERRA PHARMACY DRUGS, PRESCRIPTIONS SUNDRIES We serve sar.dwicl1es and light lunches. • • • • 4:30 p. m.-Hygiene Class, Old Haeffner, and Mt·. and Mrs. R. L. rr-;;;C;h;a;p;e;l.;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;M;;il;lh;a;m;;.~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~ -;;;;;;;;;;;;~~~;;;;;;;;;;~~;;;;;;;;;;~~;;;;;;;;~ ~ Gf~HGE HEHATH'S I • • R B • • 600 Union St. cor. BarreH Phone 2-9419 Phones 4-3364, 4·3365 • • • • • • • • • • : PHONE 6·9866 OPPOSITE VAN CURLER = • • : . LOUIS WASSERMAN CLOVERLAND CREAMERY FOR PROMPT SERVICE 9UALI'IY MEAT MARKET Phone 5·B1D4 919 State St. 354 Broadway ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ......................................• , ....................•.......•.................• ; • • • • ! Congratulations 1 Concordiensis I • • I on 60 Years of Service i • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • i . A ./._ 14()M MR. M oh T 06ROI s T, we offfe r I 1 Q,H,(¥, w. -r - m o r e t a n r e a s o n s o r 1 • g • 1 us1ng E 1 • • i · . sso I • • = lfi.~UJ.m <Jhe, P~.A and ESS~O SERVICE I . --,~,-- . • • I ,of that BIC STATION'I I ~ COR. JAY and UNION W. H. RICE i I -WINTERIZE N·OW I • ESSO SERVICEM'TER • • • 1 Phone 6-4342 1 • • • • =·····················································~·······························= c Z511 VoL L~ AU .. ( Con: On Yunich Pr(] Ut Ti May E ter Plans the All· Thanks: Gymnas the StU< '39, whE arrange \the spi keep it eve1y l Yunic several tacted . cent, ar whom' ney ha HamiltE Williarn been e gate. E will pr piece o calists. Ticke the sale secured dent Co the fra- a.dva:nt: Neutra· Vilmar Club, o: ment o The r will be tickets next t\ the pri Althc for bQ( ternitiE their o Dane up no' will be ~XP' In \I h: the op down 1 ent ph has co: of the New ~ Union asseml \It i said. ~~ new I Unless our SE condit been > back 1932. \Ou pelled sun if gress form~; effect: sion/' ,.Du have · ·-the sec uri econo \Th in thr imme same becoll This budg• disco laws tive come ficits A ftcits ried fore \B: diffic lmpo \TI ed,- pend o:f a and: ture! to s givei llc\Ii

Camera n Silliman be a pep The ·stu- of the short talk will then and OAT. NDRY· • • • • • • • • •· • • • • • • • • • II • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • i • • • • • • • • • = • • • • • • • • • • • • • • t1 • • • • • • • • = • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • z 611 Graduate Council Selects Officers Vol. LXI., No. 14 ~ .• UNION OOLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1937 tS All-College Dance Plans Under Way PR1CE FIVE CENTS All .. College Dance Committee Decide On Chqice of Band . State Colleges lnaugnrllte Constitutional •Convention Union College Association Discovered of First Records Secretary's 0 If ice Has An \Official Welcomer\ Graduate Council Selects Officers; Distributes Funds Yunich Announces Several Prominent :Bands A1·e Under Consideration Ticket Sale Begins May Be Obtained from Fra- temity Chairmen, Or Tony Barbieri Plans are rapidly being made for the All~College Dance to be he!d Thanksgiving Eve in the Alumni Gymnasium under the auspices of th.e Student Council, David' Yunich, '39, who is taking chavge of the arrang-ements, declared today that \the spirit is high and we want to keep it that way because this is every Union man's dance.\ Yunich has been negotiating with several orchestras and· has con- tacted Jack Lanney, Sammy Vin- cent, and Joe Belmont, any one of whom will be the final choice. Lan- ney has gained a reputation at Hamilton; Vincent played at the Williams Sofree, and Belmont has been engaged frequently at Col- gate. Either one of these leaders will provide an eleven m· twelve piece orchestra with feminine vo- calists. Tickets have been printed and the sale started today. They can be secured f:rom members of the Stu- dent Council, the social chairmen of the fraternity houses, and at other advantage points on the campus. Neutrals may secure theirs from Vilmar Bose, '38, of the Pyramid Club, Ol' Tony Barbieri In the base- ment of Silliman Hall. The charge for the dance, which will be formal, will be $1.50 if the tickets are purchased within the next two weeks and after this time the price will be $2.00 per couple. Although no charge will be made for booths i~ is expected that fra- ternities will supply furniture for their own use at the dance. Dance programs are being made up now and further developments will be forthcoming . ~xpert Sees Change In Financial Policy \I have the temerity to advance the opinion (and you may write it down as a prophecy) i;hat the pres- ent phase of governmental economy has come to its end,\ Harry A. Hall, of the Division of the Budget, of New Yorlt State, told students at Union College this m<>rning in daily assembly. Two New York State colleges will not be found napping if a roll call of college helpel:\s is made at the Constitutional Con- vention in Albany on Apdl 5, 1938. Severa:! months ago, students in the political science depart- ment <lot l;Dlmira College drew up a model state constitution -with a ru:nning commentary. Em- phasis was placed on the use- fulness' of pvesent provisions a1,1.d the best alterations pos- sible. If proved feasible, the E::l- mira College contribution will be sent to Convention members. Not to be outdone, the New Yorlt State College for Teachers students took one step fur,ther and last Tuesday, Election Day, inaugurated a State Ce>llege Constitutional Assembly, the first of its kind to be estab- lished .by any college of the state. A publicity campaign will also be fostered, including .the explanation of facts regarding the issues and sentiments of the college groups on these issues through the newspapers of the state. Placement Bureau Oatlines Program Davis of New York Telephone To Talk With. Seniors On Thursday Christian The Concordiensis of April, 1883,. contains the following news item. \The members of the Christian Union, of Union College have re- solved to disorganize and to adopt the Constitution of the Young Men's Christian Association of· c<>lleges.\ This is the first vecord of the existence of the Christian Association, The .next mention of the Christian· Association in the pag-es of the Concox·diensis is found in the issue of October 5, 1892, which tells of the formation of a Christian Ail- sociation \to place Union College upon an equality with other like institutions in the line of pro- motion of unity and of spirituality among the students\. As to the gap between the two articles, nothing is to be found in available records. An account of the association's activities during the year show that the men of Union at the time were very much interested in religion, holding prayer meetings about every two weelts and occasional Bible classes. Delegates were serit to th& state convention of Col- lege Christian Association Presi- dents at Syracuse in the April of 1893. There the sessions were mostly lectures of a type intended to inspire the listeners to a better type of life. In January of the following year, the Christian Association ag-ain voted to adopt the constitution of the state organization of associa- tions, after an address by Frank Goodman, state secretary, who pointed out that at the time Union and Hobart were the only colleges hi New York State who did not have membership in the state group. There were 22 college clubs in the state and 457 in the nation, embracing a membership of ap- proximately 30,000 college students. The aims of the association at that time were seven in number. They- were: 1, For rescue of fall- ing young men; 2, For refuge; 3, For training- for Christian work; 4, For redemption of spare hours; 5, For world-wide evangelization; 6, For practical Christian sym- pathy; 7, Ideal manhood. T·he Concordiensis of 1893-1894 contained an advertisement of a Y. l\!I, C. A. restaurant at the covner of State and Ferry streets, offering 21 meal tickets for $3.00 to students . Th.e 1910-11 report which the Christian Association published of its a.divities for the year presents an idea of the extent its activities reached at the peak of its history .. Th.ey published a handbook for · freshmen, a Board and Room di- rectory-, an Information Bureau, and a \Senioi\ Nig-ht\ Reception for freshmen on the first Friday Even- ing of the year. They also made im- pi\ovements to Silliman Hall and supplied it with 34 magazines and. one New York daily newspaper . For religious observances, the as- sociation held Sunday evening ves- ,pers, which were usually conducted by the president of the college, and Bible study classes. Professor Taylor was in charge of these classes. Some of the students also formed a Missionary Committee, l:!olding Missionary Study courses and forming- a Missioi)ary Library . .Among- the other activities of the group were seven classes of alien residents of Schenectady meeting .two evenings a week, the collec- tion of old clothes, the leading of boy's bible classes at the local Y . M. C, A., and deputations of stu- dents to the val'ious churches and clubs in the vicinity. · The budget of the Christian As- sociation during- these years amounted to approKimately $1,200 per year. Of this, approximately $70() was raised by solicitation among the students, Mr. Howard Lee Davis, Director of Technical Employment and Training for the New York Tele- phone Company and authoi\ of the pamphlet entitled \Preparation for Seeking Employment\ will visit the campus on November 11. lie will speak in Daily Assembly in the morning and at 1:30 will have a special meeting with the seni<>rs to discuss the technique of :actually Day's Ideals Praised Religion Is Termed At Portrait Ceremony Freedom's Bulwark landing a position. Mr. Davis did Saturday, Nov. 6. ·- The vitality this last year, and it proved very of Union's former president, Frank helpful to many of the men. Parker Day, was extolled this It is the hope of the Bureau that morning by President Dixon Ryan the seniors will procure copies of Fox in a ceremony a.t which a. Mr. Davis' pamphlet from the portrait of Pr. Day was presented Bookstore and read them thor- Caveli Points to Resistance of Church in Germany To Nazis oughly before this !Ueeting. He pur- to the college by Theadore V. W. poses to give no general speech for Anthony, '96, in behalf of alumni the seniors but rather to answer and friends of the former presi- questions and to have a general dent. placement discussion. Sunday, Nov. 8 - The effect of ecclesiastical interference in every day events is of considet·able im- -ortance. According to the Rev. Samuel McCrea Cavert, general secretary of the Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in his ser- mon yesterday at Union College, we cannot decide that \the Church ls irrelevant to the burning issues of our day\ without considering Ger- many. The fall program is takin.g shape, Speaking before students and and there will be placemenf. ciiscus- many alumni who were here for' sions as follows: the College Week-end activities, Tuesday, Nov. 16-Andrew 'V. Clexn- · Dr. Fox praised the progressive ents, Registrar of the Albany Law plans which Dr. Day proposed for School; will talk to the students Unio)L College and which in part who are planning to study law. have been and are being carried Tuesday, Dec. 7-Donald L. Mill- Qut . \What is happening there,\ he said in reference to the resistance of the Church to the government, '\shows that the final bulwark of any kind of real freedom is re- ligious faith, \Heidi\, Doctor Waldron's faithful companion, having completed eight months of resi- dence on the Union Colleg-e campus, is now the official wei- comet· of all guests who visit the Secretary's office. James Finegan, Former Offi- cers, Again Chosen to Head Alumni G mup To the freshmen. we might ex- plain that \Heidi\ came tp us from ·\The .Seeing Eye School\ at Morristown, N. J. where sh.e was trained to lead the blind . Anyone who enters the office of Dr. \Charlie whether on secret business or not, must re- veal all before his ·guardian.' as he strokes the dog's ears and pets her . It has taken a lot of careful and patient training by Dr. Waldron and his associates to acquaint his dog- with the ·cam- pus, but now that that is done the dog is an integral part of the Secretary's life and is fo.r- ever with her master. The pres- ence of \Heidi\ has added an informal and homey atrn<>s- phere .to the Administration Building . Peace Conferen(e Adopts Platform 200 Meet at Vassar; Oppose R. 0. T. C. and C. M. T. C., Define \Pacifist\ POUGHKEEPSIE, N. Y., Nov. 7 -A pacifist was defined as \one who refuses to suppol't or partici- pate in any war, international or civil, and one who works to remove the causes of war\ by the Y<luth Peace Conference held here this weekend with 200 representatives of colleges, universities and. pea<'e organizations in attendance. A w<>rking platform was adopted by the conference which it was made known is expected to serve as a basis of discussion and activ- ity, and as the foundation of a second meeting to be held later. $1,000 to Student Loan $500 Allocated for Doctors' Office,; Outing Club to :Receive $200 The Graduate Council of Union College in its Fall meeting on Sat- urday elected officers and allocated the expenditure of funds totalling $1,781.89. It also appointed a com- mittee to consult with the Student Council concel.'Iling class organiza- tion of undergraduates. James E. Finegan, '(}2, of New Yorlt Cit:y, was re-elected chair man of the Council; LeRoy J. Weed, '11, of New York City, vice- chairman; Frederick B. Ruichards, '88, of Gelns Falls, treasurer; Charles ~- Waldron, '06, of Sche- nectady, secretary, and D. Richard Weeks, '28, of Schenectady, assist- ant secretary. Dr. J. Lewi Donhauser, 04, J . Leslie Walton, '09, S. G. H. Turner, '98, and R.. C. Donnan, '03, were re- elected as members-at-large with terms expiring in 1942. The Council nominated Dr. E. M. Zeh Hawkes, '87, for the position of Alumnus Trustee of the colleg-e to succeeed himself, with term ex piring in 19·12. It also nominated Judge William Allen, '95, Spencer B. Eddy, '18, and Philip Thomsen, '01, as candidates for the office of Alumnus Trustee, term expiring in 1941, to complete the unfinished term of LeRoy J. W-eed, '01, who has been elected a life member of the B 0 ar<l of Trustees. Speaific points in the platf<~rm were opposition to the R. 0. T. C., the C. M. T. C., mil'itary control of the Civilian Conservation Coi\ps to the government's \war budget,\ the industrial mobilization plan pending in Congress, and to im- perialism. Unallocated funds and the inter est on tbe Losee bequest totalling $1,781.89 were allocated by the Council as follows: $500 for the remodeli:ng and equipping of the office of t.he college physicians; $200 for the \USe of tile college Outing Club toward acquiring a site and building a cabin for wintersports at North Creek, this money to be advanced when the necessary de- tails of arrangements have been made; $:1,(}()0 to the Student Loan Fund. The usual taxes of $15 for Com- mencem~mt and $5 for College Weekend were levied on the classes. In ordet· to establish a better or- ganization of colleg-e .classes, the council appointed a committee to consult 'With the Student Council in this respect. The conference favored with- drawal of American tro()ps and ships from the Far East. repeal of the Oriental exclusion act, racial reconciliation, and the use of non- violent methods in settling inter- national disputes. \It is finished ... definitely,\ he said. \We are now entering upon a new phase-distinct and different. Unless we change our thinking and our sections to meet the changed conditions, om· 20 billions will have been spent in vain, and we will ~e back again to where we were m 1932. \Our present gloom can be ~!s­ pelled lilte mist before the mornmg sun if the President and the Con\ gress soon to be reassembled, will formulate a new plan to be madt'l effective at the next regular ses- sion.\ \During the past two months we have witnessed an odd phenomenon ·-the steady and drastic decline in security values, seemingly without economic reason therefor. ham of the General :mlectrie Com- The Glee Club, under the direc- pany will talk to those -who are tion of Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, interested in the bUBiness training sang two of Dr. Day's favorite course offered by the G-eneral songs following the dedication o:f Electr~c Co. the· portrait, Tuesday, Dec. 14--J. E. H.awes, of In his brief speech of acceptance, the Personnel Departmen.t of J. J. President Fox said, \I can imagine Newberry Company in New York him at this very moment sitting in City, will talk to the sen.iors who his h<>me in Nova Scotia and, think- are interested in the chain store ing ·and dreaming of Union Col- business. lege. Appointments are pending with \ ... W•herevet' a great man ha.s· Dean R. S. Cunningham mf the Al- been, part of him remains. . . , .A bany Medical College and with Mr. very great part of Dr. Day remains J. F. Pilkington of the Travelers In- and will remain forever in the tra- surance Company in Hartford. ditions of Union College. Ee is now even naore with us because of this symbol to be hung in this room.\ Organizations s p o n s o r i n g the meeting were the Women's Inter- national League for Peace and Freedom, the Fellowship of Re- conciliation, the American Friends Service Committee and the War Resisters League. Cornell Univep>ity sent the larg- est delegation, consisting of eleven persons, and Adelphi College, at Garden City, L. I., the second larg- est, ten persons. ----01---- \If there is no Divine Sov- ereignty to which a man owes su- preme allegiance then he is at the mercy of whatever human sov- ereig-nty sets itself up in the place of God. When men no longer feel a loyalty to an Absolute that trans- cends all earthly powers, they be- come victims of new absolutes of nation, race or class such as are bidding- for the support of man- ltind today.'\ Dr. Cavert, graduate of Union Phi Sigma Delta Plans College in the class Of 1910, W!l.S . Founder's Day Ballquet back this week-end with other The undergraduate affairs com- mittee ~f the Council was asked to consider the advisibility of holding the annual \Block U\ dinner, at which a..thletic awat·ds are made at the . time of the Spring Council meeting in order that attendance at the meeting might be increased. Fresl:tman Year book To Appear Tomorrow Tbe B'resh.man Record, yearbook of the class of 1941, will appear on the ca1npus tomorrow, Edmund R. Arundel!, '38, editol'-in-chief an- nounced today. Copies will be dis- tributed to freshmen at Student Ac- tivities Office in Washburn Hall. Wyatt Again Touring In Union's Behalf Munzer to Meet Those Inte1·ested in German \The reason apparently is a fear in the minds of our people for the immediate future. At one and the same time all of us seem to have become .imbued with the same idea. This 'leads us directly back to the Fredericlt A. wyatt will leave the budgeL The people have become campus once again on business con- Hans Munzer, German exchange discouraged because of new tax cerning the Placem!)nt :)3ure:au and student, will meet those interested laws which shackle private initia- the Bureau for Admissions the lat- in conversation classes on Wednes- classmates and alumni of the col- lege for the annual College Week- End program. Wrana Joins Cast of Civic Players' Next P:uoduction tive and enterprise; and have be- ter par.t of this week when h.e visits h d f N b d t d day and T urs ay a ternoons, a- come disheartened over u ge e- Montour Falls, Auburn, and Utica. 1 t · · · th i t' \ vember 10 and 1, a 4:30 p. m. m Learning an important role in ficits 'beyond e r tme. Fr 1 'day morn1'ng he w:ill· ·be in R 106 B '1 E ·11 f th · th d • th t k AI C 11 • t b d t d oom , a1 ey: a , or e pw•- ree ays 1s e as of an •. A plan to e mma e u ge e- Montour Falls and will visit the pose of discussing organization, It Wrana, '40, due to a las1rmlnute, ftcits must be promulgated and car- ·Coole Academy at th. t·s pla~e in co. n- d t d b D G b tit t! hi. · t id M H 1 ' b ~ w·as announce o ay. y r. eorge su s u on w ch gave him a part· ried into effec • sa · r. ·a '• · e- nectt'on ~\ adm1's·s1'o~\ and the D t It i d t t t ' th i 1 t ,.,. ·~ H. an on. s propose o s at· tn e cast of. the Civic Players' fore any time s 08 • NI\les Crane· and· Hoist. CCJ. :for the. t 1 t t 1 f b d t• \T'd · i ''Balancing the budget will be a h ft a eas · wo c asses, one or e- pro uc xon, 1 e R1s ng.\ difficult undertaking, .but not an Placement Bureau. In t e a ernoon ginners and one for students wbo Wrana has had experience in pro- !mpos:;dble one. he will journey to the Aui:Jux:n High 'have some knowledge of the Ger- ,ductions of the Mountebanks Play- \There are two essentials requir- School. man language. ers .. He takes the place of Abraham ed,-ftrst, a broader and more de- Friday evening will find him in If more groups are interested, Smith, who left the CiVic Players pendabie tax base probably by use Utica where he will display the Dr. Danton announced, Munzer will to become a member of the cast of of a national sales or turn-over tax movie, \George Goes to Union\ at a be glad to make arrangements with the Empire Players . and second, a; reduction in expendl- ·meeting of the Utica Alllmni Asso- them also. At the same time, in- \Tide Rising,\ a ''tinaely labor tures to the amount .we can afford elation. divlduals who are interested cor- :p1ay/' with a <last of :Z6 persons, to ·spend.: not the amount which SaturdaY morning- he will· visit .re<Jting errors in their pronuncia.- will open at the Civic Playhouse gives 'US a. thrill at ou~ own bene- Devine Brothers a-nd other business tion, may make private arrange.- ;on Wednesday night, and continue Bc~IIfSe, finn~ In TJ'tlc/l., mente with Mintzer. tllrou~h Satur®y. The Epsilon chapter of Phi Sigma Delta will commem<lrate the 29th anniversat·y of the fraternity's founding with a Founder's Day Banquet at the chapter house to· morrow evening. The guest of honot· will be Hans Munzer, Germa!l- Jewish. student from Frankfort, German:,r, who .en- tered Union last week. Dr. William Gould; p!'esident of the Capital D'is-. trict Alumni, will preside. The Union chapter of. Phi Sigma Delta was founded at the Albany Law and Medical Colleges in 1914. tt was renio:ved to Union Cc)llege in 1925. The first chapter o:f the fra- ternity was originated at Colum- bia University. Similar celebrations will be held by otl\et· chapters all over the coun- tQ' tomorrow. The issue contains pictures of each m-ember of the freshman class, a record of bis school activities, hfs nlckna.mes, his college and home address, and his college activities. Also Included in the publication are pictures of the freshman ad- 'Visors, college officers, freshman camp leadei's, freshman athletic coaches, freshman teams, and fa- miliar cawpus faces, The boolt be- gins w:lth DI\. Fox's message of wel- come to the new class. The purpose of the yearbook is to assist the freshmen in becom- Ing acquainted with members· o-f their own class and with their col- lege. Work on the issue has been going on: since tile latter part of September, The staff consists of Edmund R . Arundel!, '38, eqitor-in-chief, and Willla.IIl O'Connor, '39, Robe1-t Wal- ter, Jt·., '39, and Alan C. Wrana, '40, associate editors.

Pag•e Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1937 of its tax to build a hockey xink-right over MOtiON I DOWN BROADWAY a city water pipe and ¥ery poor l'ock forma- . . 1 t 1 Professor ln The Raw .· · By Fred Wittner and Mel Adams Belng the provmcm ype, _,v-e: . <Associated Collegiate Press tions-hockey was in for a lot of trouble .. never managed to get dow,n to see1 lb============;!J correspondents) S $ · the stage version of Dead End., Oln.e • 5,000 has been p:t;tt into the hockey However, our able assistant, hear- Academic Frocession by James NEW YOR:& AT LARGE FOUNDED 1'877 ti.nk that remains .$0 d~s-erted at the edge of say, SJ.!pplies the information that: ;Jl;. rai·ker. 281 ;pp. College Li\ One ·Of the brightest productions th t d ·alogue and cast were· to illuminate the floodlights this \tf Cauuz.Persa Parole Jl ssai\ Jackson's Ga1·dens. co~:l~{~y ~omin>atep by a huge: llrary. · season is George Abbott's produc- 1937 Member 1938 ~sociated Cd~ee>iate Press Several .sug~estions. have been made t@ master-stroke of irony-the ~et ·Shades of )!'. K.! It seems that· tion of \Angel Island,\ a comedy- Since the reliable critics I•epre·, t)lE profs have attained the rank mystery writt~n ·by Bernie An~us aba-ndon the lea:ky rink and flood a shady sented the play as an honorar~ of Gawd and so must be debunked. . .. the mysterrous elements are m- f th: G d t C 'I f' ld h . graduate .()f the \slice o;j' life.\. :Mr. Parltei' has ,focused his tele- significant, but the comic routine Thsuibu tor of co'l'ner 0 · •:e · ra .. ua e 0UnCl le W ere naturalistic school, 'that was as ·II- scope upon the academic constel'la- :fol:owing the usual Abbott f?rmula ice can very easily be frozen naturally and should be. Knowing that, the tech t!ons and found nothing but burnt- mal~:es for swelegant entertamment . nical staff of the Goldwyn produ.c· ou.t suns. All of which means that.,. . . Two West ·Coasters visiting where hockey players could f.eel that they tlon must have been pretty well up• a number of articles have been here this week are Tyrone Power Col!ee>ia!e Dieiest REPRESENTED roA NA\FION\L ADVERTISING SY National Advertisi11g Service, Inc. ·College Puhfjs/Jers Rep,-esetJ(atit•e 420·MADISON AVE. NEW '¥0RK, N.Y. CIUCAGO M BOSlOll • LOS J\NG~lES • SAN FRANCISCO · were still part ef the Union College sports a ti ee trying to preserve the or!gi· co-llected fro1n that magazine: of ·and Aclice Faye, the latter vaca- nal effect. The result is, as far as IlL~· Hinterland Sophisticate, The· tioning from the Hal Kemp show program. The floodlights which were once we'i·e concerned, better than the New Yorker, ·and together with ad-. for a few weeks ... Ben Marden's used for the tennis court rinks C()Uid be util- stage production could possibl:li dit.ionai material, have been re- ·Riviera is making a drive for the have been. ,pr-inted into a book. out-of-town trade by staying open The official newspaper uf lhe students of Union -College. Publishe~ Tuesda:y a11d I\rlday_s thro\gf1· ·out the college yectr, excer>t dtif!J•g Chnstma• ,and Sprin~ re<·e:-:sf:lfl. ized once m011e for late practices which are In the first Jllace, the set is z .An empirical fatalism would in- .all winter ... Su?cess stor~ of the so frequent. These are suggestions worth la.rge-scale copy of the Norman 3el di<Jate that there is little to be week concerns Vmcent Price, star Geddes original. Richard Day has done about the \professor .prob- of \The. Lady Had a He!l'rt,\ who considering and worth putting into effect. acknowledged his Inability .to h::n, le::n.\' The best policy is to con- first achieved fame as Pnce Albert PubUcat!on Office, The Ga:e;dtc l'Foss, 3H State 51.., Schenectady. N. Y. Tdepho11e 4-4141 Entered at the Scheue<\tady l'ost Office ''\' _____ .::S.::.ee:.:o:.;n:.:.d:...:::C.:.:la=s8 :\!ail :O.latter Subscription price Jt\J\.:e l't>uts a c\'IIY; $3.00 a year; deliver.ert anywllen: in tlll' L\nited Slate~. Editorial nooms, Sillllu:UI Hull, Union College· Campus. Tele{JhClne. :::kllt·nt·.etady. 4-0133. Senior Boat·d Hyman A. Enzer ..... , ......... Editor-in·Chle~f 11 S. S. S·•uth L'olle~e- 6-:•7~8 Robert H. Ferguson .......... Managing Editor !'si I:JJ•ilun Uouse-·!·8710 Julius J. Bundgus ................ News Editor ~ S. S. South College-G-:•721 Henry D. Hartmann ..•....... Feature E:<:lit()r 7 U. Ll. I>.~G·:Jli:!4J Carl R. Trahman ................ Sports Edllor Kuppn S gma lit)u~e--1~~325 John H. Gilmour ............ Business Man.<Jg-Er Delta l:p~i.lun I-Iousc--4~7:J!!2 Marvin M. Miller .. Associate Business Macr~g-~r Kappa :\u-4-7331 Alfred R. Seigle .. , .....•.. Circulation Man.ng-<4!r Kappa :\u-4-7:131 Junior Boa1·d ASSOCUTC: I~D!Tul:S Herbert 0 Fox HnbPrt A S11 .t:Jf Frederick \V. Hequrlnhourg J t:rome Smith H. Wyman H1tehr<\ k b:thHrtl C. HetcUL~I• Robert C. '\Vn.lt•r. Jr. Issue Editor .......... Robert H. Fel'g1.1S<Jn Assistants .................. Georg-e Fe-ck Tuesday, Novenrbcr 9, 1937 TRIBUTE NON-PAREIL Saturday morning Dr. Frank Parker Day. no longer was a personality who has faded and gone f1'Dm Union College. In a brief ora- tion that was impressive for its simplicity and straight-forwardness President Fox hon- Ol'ed Union's eleventh president in receiving the portrait which was presented by V. W. Anthony, '96. The present generation does not know Dr. Day. Since his resignation in 1933 because of ill health he has lived in his home in Nova Scotia, writing and thinking, That his thoughts refer frequently to the colleg.e where he hoped to carry out such worthy plans is evident by his conespondence with students, faculty and alumni now. Dr. Fox managed to translate in as fine a speech he has made before the student body that personality of Dr. Day. To have learned thus of the soldier-athlete who achieved fame in so many fields of endeavor will always be a cherished memory. SATURDAY'S HEROICS There must be something wr~ng with Sat- MINIATURE PROM urday as a day of study at Union College. During the months of October and Novern- A Junior Prom on miniature financial be1·, when football week-ends al'e at a prem- scale has been contemplated by muw in- ium, during December, January and Feb- terested students j'or several years_ C(}n- uary when every week-end is an occasion for templation ceases with this year and action hitting the snow trails, and during March, takes its place. On Wednesday niglit, N'o- April and May when dances are in bloom vember 24, the fit·st all-college dance of many Union College students find it incon- what is hoped will IJe a. series of such ~Hnts venient to attend classes Saturday morning. throughout this year \sill take place. Examinations ·are ra1·ely conducted Satur- Under the ministrations of social ·cha:ir- daoys because instructo1·s cannot test all men of various fraternity houses caLled to- theit· students on that day, the campus takes gether by David Yunich the all-college -d~mce on a holiday appearance, chapel is almost has been officially ::lanctioned by the ad:rnin- istration, the place has been definitely set deserted and only the liveliest of prog·rams can hold wandering interests. The condusion for the gymnasium, tlte time from 10 p. m. t 2 d th t dent Councl . 1 h\'s ~·olJe of classes on Fridays is a signal f()r \school's o a. m., an · e s u \' ;:; out!\ on the record as accepting responsibility- for any deficit. According to the general programs of From the reports of all fraternitr social. three hours per subject each week, students chairmen the number of ~ tuden ts w h() .1v {)Uld are not fulfilling their programs. Too many be willing to sup]}Ol't such a dance seemed subjects are getting only two of those three more than sufficient to i11sui'e its success. If hours weekly. the !)rogram continues with as much. SIJirit The situation is not desperate. It is not as it has begua the all-college dance nay source for revolution, but it is des.erving of accomplish much in reconciling- the financial . some serious consideration by students, as and the social problems of the frate!'1lity well as meinbers of the faculty and admin- and non-fraternity men. istration who have undoubtedly puzzled A minimum tax of al.Jout $1.50 will be over the problem before. charged a couple, and an excellent dance According to the present system of checks band that will be selected by the best ()f on absences there is 110 limit to the number Union College's authorities on the slll>-ject of bolts except as the instructox determines. are factors that point to success. If an instructor wishes he may insist upon students being present at classes Saturday morning. PLAYING FIELDS To attend a class Satu1·day is the height Although Alexander Field is just a little of martyrdom for some students. That's un- better for playing football than is Stetz.ben fortunate in a college which professes to Field it seems logical that some improvetnent have high standards. Yet our standards also should be made if our athletes are to >Ell tel'- call for a non-disciplinarian attitude that is tain other college teams on it. The atl\1 ~tic very commendable-and pmbably easily department has been considering resurfacing workable in a society of iintelligent seekers the field for severul years and there is a after know.ledge. very good possibility now that future ath- We cannot recommend here a program letic entertainments will not be quiie so which could solv.e the problem. The answer sloppy. lies too deep in too many different persons. prove by keeping Intact the dea..d· Unue supplying the prof with in- in\Victoria Regina\ ... Son of a end street where the rear ol a babited aples and Jet it go at that.· St Louis candy-bar marmfacturev, fashionable hotel adjoins a g-roup l.k. Parker obviously is hedging Price went through Yale, pFefer- of slum tenements, when he says the characters par-· ring the tours offeved by the Glee Secondly, Lillian He U man ' s ·tl'ayed are imaginary. As each Club to the mare dogged :work of- adaptation of the Sidney Kingsley episode is presented, the imaginary f~red by campus ~ramat!C some- script is much more than adequate: pr-ofessor materializes with reck- ties · · · now packmg them ID; as True, the dialogue has a wen le:ss rapidity fmm. Achilles to ~me of the more popular matmee scoured, euphemistic tone and. .the Za:buesniic. Mr. Parker wrote the Idols of the day · · · the st~ck mar- occupations .of the Misses Barr-ie liLird and eighth chapters for Mr.' k~t slum P.layed havoc With bud- and Trevor are explained by 11: Silber; the t,welfth chapter for The dmg theatncll:l pro~ucers · · · ~eV'·. quaintly obvious kind of innuend:o; •Faculty Women's Club; the nine- e1~al shows, mcludJ_ng a musiCal but the nostalgic public enmey has te~nth chaptei' for Drs. Coffin and: w1th Frank Crumt;mt, \:ere fo~ced a certain flair that only conta.d Kellogg; the twenty-second chapter to postpone ope~ungs mdefimtely with Hollywood could provide, and· .fiH Miss .Applegarth! and the when. ·backers withdrew cash for the handsome-hero- struggliny -in- \l'llole book for President Fox and· maipn- covm age · · Walter adversity is a much greater anti- ·M: .. ilton Enzer. As all the chapters O'Keefe, Char I i e ~utterwo~t~: thetical force than his stage co\ln• ce>uld be labelled, it is evident that Westbrool< Pegler and _Sleepy Jim tevpart, a crippled victim of .the· -tbe perspicacious author has a Crowley, Fordham .gnd1ron men- environment. .w·ide acquaintanceship among the to1·, .roomed tog_ether at Notre Dame In the third place, a combina- •lll.embers of the faculty. durmg the re1gn of the famous tion of William Wyler's dilect!on Mr. Parker will hardly endear \Four Horsemen.\ and Gregg Toland's photography •himself to the .instructors by call- SURVEY has singled out certain things th.at -in.g them \acceptable slaves\; and make the incongruity of splend.m •Cantabrigians may resent the at- side by side with squalor mC>Ie lu.sion to alma mater,\ where a striking than the set viewed as a good bargain (in instructors) whole Cas on the stage) could pas· •could alawys be obtained.\ sibly do, A garbage can dragged The thesis of this professorial from one of the tenements Y 1 eLds .undressing seems to be contained focus to a few scraps of dirt swept ·in. the pathetic query with which from the hotel. A series of worm. S· tb.e last page ends: \Why are we eye shots angling upward from the ihere ?\ smm contrasted with bi1·d's·eye views looking down upon its in- N. B. We thanlt HAL for tipping habitants adds significance to the •US off on thls book, and Mr. Ship- conception of man as a prey of his nan. for · loaning it to us so own social system. p:romptly.-M. V. Finally, the amazing petfor=· ----o----- ances of the members of the De.a11 IN THE MAIL End gang are supplemented by t.he fine work of Joel McCrea, Sylvia Sidney, Humphrey Bogart, and Al' len Jenkins. The best moment? We lil{ed the fadeout, where the three main <!har- acters disappear (with their event- ual happiness pretty well assuredJ and leave behind the street in the process of resuming its everyday aspect. \ * Those faithful who have borne with us this far will be glad to heat that Burgess Meredith proves .him- self a good slapstick comedian in. There Goes the Groom. Arrn Sot.h· ern and Roger Imhof run nice in· terference.-J. M. II AROUND WASHINGTON ;By MARVIN COX (Associated Collegiate Press) Washington, D. C.-Students ta..:k- ing .courses in contemporary his- tory or .studying .any .Phases of rela- tions between this country and South and Central America may be' interested in :Uncle Sam's newest educational experiment. This is .t.he \Brave New World\ radio series, beginning Nov. 1, whlch will depict various aspects of Pan-American • culture, history and development. ' November 6, 1937. :r-o the Editor: ·l want to state as emphatically .as I can the congratulations and gratitude of Unio.n College for the great contribution which you and your associates have made in pro- ducing last night's Concordiensis. I have now had time to read it through and deoeply realize the immense amount of thought and .effort and devotion which went into producing it. I have seen nothing so fine in the way of undergrad- ·uate journalism since I came to -tbe College. Will you take what appropriate means you have to ·convey these sentiments to your •Colleagues on the Board. It seems .tC>o me that JY.Lz·. Gilmour is espe- cially in line for a wreath on his ' \l'<ll'k in getting the advertising. Thanking you again, I am Cordially yours, Dixon Ryan Fox. Collegiate Review The University of Iowa possesses one professor, in the college of edu- cation, who understands the un- dergraduate mind. He occasionally warns the students, \I think I'll sl-eep through class time.\ Arrd he does. There are some 875 Hispanic courses of various subjects being offered in 335 institutions of hi.gher Texas Christian University stu- learning, according to the 11. S. ·dents have worn out three editions Office of Education's Radio Pro· o;E Emily Post's book on etiquette ject. A number of these colleges and the fourth is in shreds, accord- and universities are planning to lng to the librarian. The most fre- carrelate their Pan-Ame.ri ca.n courses with the radio series. quent borrowers are boys. By no- This is probably the first time in tieing who borrows \Emily Post\ history that any nation has expend· stu can often predict weddings and ed time and money in an effort to announcement paTties. build up friendly relations wit.h other countries by means of eduea· .A break for the men at Ohio tion. The \!!rave New World\ W,.esleyan-co-eds there are all in series also marks the coming of age fa.vor of limiting- the number of of radio education. CC>I'sages they expect to receive dur- The Columbia Broadcasting Sy-.s· In~ the year. But they want fewer . tern will transmit the 26 weelcl:l'' programs over :its statione all over flowers \so that the money can be the country. Countries in Central• sp-ent attending more dances.\ and South America will hear tbe :Boston has been. displaced as the programs over station W2XE, a he>me of the most Harvard alumni. new 50,000 watt short wave station• in New York. New York has mon than 7,000, the Most of the :participants in the new alumni directory revealed. broadcast series are taken from re- 'Teaching at Cleveland College of lief rolls because of the fact that' w-estern Reserve University is a funds for the programs come fro=• fu:nily affair to 12 members of the an allocation of Emergency Rellei funds. The cast is now being train-. fiu::ulty. There are now six \hus- ed in New York, and when the cur-' ba..nd and wife\ teams teaching at tain rises at 1(}:30 P. M. Easte1·n· tb.e college. Standard Time, November :1., a fin- J?rinceton freshmen placed Chief ished performance 'is expected. Jll.Sli<!e Charles Evans Hughes A recent survey of 93 New ¥ork advei tising agencies revealed that a little more than 20 per cent pre- ferred to traJn men just out of college for future executive po- sitions ... the general consensus, however, was that a man with a college t:>ackground is better fitted to fulfill the creative requirements of general advertising work. INSIDE STUFF Life, the picture mag, expects to get into black ink by the end of 1938, after almost two million dol- lars in red ... it would have made a fortune already but for the fact that advertising was sold originally on an expected circulation of 250,- 000 and, to surprise of Messrs. Luco, Larsen and Billings, it zoomed to over a million and a quarter ..• New York newspaper- men are worrying over Hearst's. next move, because you can throw your hat out of any skyscraper window and hit at least one un- employed reporter already ... * • • Students at Columbia University who take the psychology tests find it pays to talk back. If they're asked to \moo like a cow,\ they're given a high rating if they nonchalantly moo, toss back some flippant comment. Getting embarrassed gives them a poor mark. And an occasional \what-the-hell\ during the examination rated better than '~.Yes, sir.\ The idea is to measure self-con. fidence, aggressiveness and domi· nance. · TAB HEEL BANDSMEN North Carolina's Chapel Hill campus has seen many swingy feet tred its grounds ... The Tar Heel School boasts five musical biggies in its alumni records . , , of course you know abo11t Friend Hal Kemp and Kay Kayser , . . other Care- Scott Trotter of Crosby Music Hall fame and Norman Cordon radio- opera singer ... the latter two for- merly played with Kemp, EMPIRE PLAYERS Present ••cRIMINAL AT LARGE .. A Scotland Yard Mystery Thriller by EDGAR WALLACE 3 DAYS ONLY: Thursday, Friday and Saturday Matinee and Evening NOVEMBER II, 12and 13 ERIE LEGITIMATE THEATRE . ----------------------~ Alexander Field, however, has accOin.Jllish-. It is a question that requires a11swer from ed its purpose this fall. We have no-v~ Ht.e every individual. If the main purpose of winter and spring to co11sider. The gynnas- going to college is to get an education are ium has just been repaired and set in or-del' these \country-club\ attitudes justified? If for the basketball season, the swimmingp()ol the main purpose of going to college is to has receiv:ed its u.sual attention, but noth. ing learn how to live as a social animal without has been done to prepare a suitable pl~y ing too much stress on the academic and schol- field for hockey. arly, is thexe any sense in holding- classes at When the student body approved the 11sj!lg all? :S:ere in the Capital, college ne\VS· ahEad Of President Roosevelt as the is offering serious competition. to g1•eatest living American, a tabula- the various wars, labor strife and th>'11 of the annual poll of the en~ · coming extra session of Congress.' ior-ing class disclos-ed. The Daily News, a focal sheet, in Bandsmen at the University of one issue this week devoted a t:h!rd . J.!hmesota are really just little of its front page to a picture of 11 1loys. Initiation rules for first year . c~ndidates for :,he title of \Univer- .. znen contain this: \Always carry: ~rty Sweetheart at George Wasl:J.- one bag gooey gum drops; one tin mgton University.. . , legitimate cigarettes; one package The co-eds dommated th~ world good gum; a.Iid after dinner mints new.3 in. tbi(J o.ue: :J.u:lta.pce, .J.\P¥\'11/lY· . .ere; da.tp. ~oog,\ Special Discount to Union College Students & Faculty TICKETS (tax inc,): Nights, at 8:3~: 55c, 85c and $1.10, Satur- day Matinees, at 2:3(): 55c, Slic 85o seats for 65c; $1.10 seats for 8!ic, Please bring ide~tification. Uniot Vic to Brockmy~ F< ByE: Union's v moving arou slow walk, d• of Rocheste sixth conse< present seas• of 13 to 0. F< sort .of a Me: they won 1 prestige. Son Bill Thomas acted as tt win, but the ning with penditure of It was o· that the Ga Rochester. Rochester. had broken tice on Th\ Walt Stugis in the same ed his playi had clicked gained a t period the Union's 15 and down ' ball carrier as a run, f pass into tt replacemen but the pas he merely t If this had have been since the s son, and Rochester Bolonek, E Offensively sortie in Yellow jack could not Garnet line backed up Jake Am~ passing at1 Union f twice for wound up first marcl elusively t: their run three dow Hammerst over the jacket's sl Bockmyer Rochester Thomas 1: left guat center for converted After tl Oliver we ing duel ated by J start of Union's fl the fourt strom cal most of the Dutc c6nvincin and the scored tl sneak. T which se1 twice in downs. Hamilt weelt dri by that backs m. else. Tl: teams tc and col).. a very then, sl and the without thing to prise ev ing on t devilish Two c Krull a to get < tacklin~ Bud ending l a spect ju.st mi: merstrc minutef Bud w score, i on thai Bo Boxil tennis, among accord! in Ph by DI Raporl sas d• cation. posed! ball, a were hazar( Dr. by Ll .sbowe 17.1 l posur' paratl footb~ cause schoo' 88 ill; touch 72,4 I

6..Y \dams •.z·ess uctions .ts this produc- omedy- Angus are in- routine 'ormula ;inment visiting Power ~ vaca- p show :arden's for the .g open · of the ce, ·star t/' who Albert ln of a l.cturev, pz:efer- 1e Glee •ork of- ! socie- il In as natinee !k mar- lh bud- .. sev- musical' forced ;finitely :tsh for Walter rworth, ~y Jim\ l1 men- ·eDame famous w York ed that mt pre- out of ive po- 1sensus, with a r fitted rements t. Jects to end of ion dol- remade :he fact ·iginally of 250,- Messrs. 1gs, it and a rspaper. 'Iearst's 1 throw ·scraper me un- iversity sts find like a rating ss back Getting a pool' he-hell\ i better elf-con. I domi- ~ ll Hill tgy feet ~r Heel biggies course Kemp r Caro- ;ie Hall radio- wo for- • I • ~S >ry Jrday I 13 4ATE fRE ·--- .. Inion :ulty fll, at atur. , 8fic ;s for ttion. THE CONCOR'DIENSIS, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1937 Page Three Union Eleven Loafs to Easy Harriers~ppose . Victory Over Yellow Jackets. Colgate Tomorrow ·Face Marmm in Away Con- Brockmyer and Amazon. Run Th,rough Center of Line • test; Beat Middlebury Easily For Touchdowns in First and. Fourth · Saturday, 17-38 FALL TRACK MEET-1937 Points Number F~trance Additional Scm:ed of Men Points Points North Cbllege 0 •••••••• 24% 6 40.000 60.000 Kappa Sigma 0 •••••••• 20 9 40.000 48.480 Kappa Alpha ......... 17 12 40.000 41.208 Psi Upsilan ........... 16 1 !. 9 40.000 39.390 Sigma Chi o 00 oo o I oo oo o 12 6 40.000 29.088 .Phi Delta Theta ....... 10 7 40.000 24.240 Delta Upsilon ......... 9 9 40.000 21.816 Totals 100,000 88.480 81.208 79.390 69.088 64.240 61.816 Fencing Enthusiasts Seek To Revive S)}ort at Union Quarters of Game Saturday ·Sigma Phi •••••••• 0 ••• 9 6 40.000 21.816 61.816 In an effart to keep alive the sport .of. fencing at Union C<Jllege despite the absence of a coach, ·sev- eral students, members of the fenc- ing team last year, are issuing a call for those who have had or who are anxious to obtain fencing ex- perience, to meet in the fencing room at the rear of Alumni Gym- nasium, Wednesday afternoon at 5 o'clock. After taking the Middlebury har- By BEN RATHBUN V. of Pittsburgh to End riers into camp by the near-perfect 1 t count of 17-38 last .Saturday morn- Union's varsity footba'l· ·eam, Grtluts to Football Men ing, the varsity cross-country jour- moving around the .premises at a · neys to Colgate tomorrow to meet' slow walk, dea-lt an impotent •bunch ··the Maroon runners. This will be of Rochester Yellowjackets their' sixth consecutive beating of the Pittsburgh, Pa. - (ACP) - The: the sixth meet of the season for U · ·1 f P'tt b h · \ t · · the Ketzmen who will be aiming for present season Saturday by a score mversl·Y' o ' 1, s ur:g lS pu tlng their fourth victory. , of ~3 to 0. For the Dutchmen it was its house.in order.\ U has announced. The •Colgate meet tomorrow wiJ.I sort .of a Mexican st:;t~doff in which that it ;vill cease giving \special be the last one, if the I. C. 4A meet they won the dec1smn, but lost , · N y 1 N b prestige. Some of them, :particularly·· grants· to football players. m ew or t on ovem er 15 .is ex\ Bill Thomas and Jake the Amazon,· . Jam:s Hagan, director of athlet- eluded, in which Captain Bill ac ted as though they wanted to 1cs, said that future Pitt athletics Hawkes will: run for Union College. \ h !d. \- d t d · Hawkes who so far this season has win but they seemed bent on· win- 8 ou ue con uc e m accord· had a first .place in every meet and ning with the least possible ex- with ~he :best .tradition~ of inter- if he can ·garner another in to- penditure of 'effart. collegiate · · · ,practice, and that · morrow's race will end his career Phi Gamma Delta ••• 0 7'M, Phi Sigma Delta ...... 0 4 Chi Psi 0 •••••••••••••• 3 Alpha Delta Phi ....... 3 Kappa Nu ............ 'A Neutrals .............. 10 Delta Phi ............. 4'/z Beta Theta Pi ........ 0 Lambda Chi Alpha .... 0 South College ......... 0 TOTAL INTRAMURAL STANDINGS 13 40.000 17.574 57.574 6 40.000 9.696 49.696 6 40.000 7.272 47.272 8 40.000 7.272 47.272 6 40.000 .606 40.606 2 .000 24.240 24.240 5 .000 10.908 10.908 5 .000 .000 .000 2 .000 .000 .000 1 .000 .000 .000 118 Foul Throwing Con test The rules of the Foul Throwing contest are in your respective intta- mural boxes, Every student in col- lege is eligible to participate. If sufficient Interest Is shown by the student body by way of ade- quate material, a proposition will be made to the Department of Athletics to secure a fencing coach for the team. Fencing at Union College h.as nat been either on a major or minor varsity sport level, although there have been teams which have com- piled successful records against other intercollege squads. During the past few years the fencing team has rolled a far better percentage than most of the winter athletic groups, It was obvious from .the start the,, university has set up an agency with a perfect record. The Colgate that the Garnet was too much for to . secure .e~pla~x:'ent for students man whom he will face is Hancock, Rochester. The sparkling of the witJ;l athletic ·abL~Ity .on the same who finished ahead of him .Jast year Phi Gamma Delta · · · · · · · · · Rochester. The sparkplug of the bas!S such h,~lp 18 gtven to other at the Intercolle.giate meet; Psi Upsilon .............. .. Points 207.574 173.834 171.813 169.795 156.260 142.319 141.310 130.605 123.939 122.927 121.918 108.383 105.555 100.000 had broken his collar bone in p1ac- students · · · Hawkes has his work cut out for Kappa Sigma · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Intramural Basketball Interested in Sch1!1uctady Interested in UNION lice on Thursday. Their best end, After- i94.0, wh~n pr~sent commit- . him, that's certain. Phi Deltst Theta ......... , . Walt ·stugis, l).<l.d also been injured ments ex.ptre! Pitt Wlll reduce the When pre-meet statistics are Sigma Phi · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · • · in the same session which prevent- schedule of tts Panthers to eight compared and considered for what , Kappa Alpha · · · · · • · · • · · · · • ed his playing. And yet if ·one play games. Tllese schedules Will incltide they are worth, which is not much, Sigma Chi · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · had clicked Rochester might have none .P11t major teams because, ac- Union seems to have the edge in Chi Psi · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · gained a tie. Early i[} the third ~ording t<J Hagan, \a football game tomorrow's affair. Colgate lost to Kappa Nu · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · period the Rivermen were on IS no longer a football game when Williams 21-34, whereas the Dutch- Delta Upsilon · · · · · · · · · · · · · Entries for the Intramural Bas- ketball tournament must be in the intramural boxes not later than Saturday noon, November 13. MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Street JeweTer 166 JAY STREET Union's 15 yard line with the sec- teams as .powerful as ours can run· men went down only 27-28. The Ma- Phi Sigma Delta .......... . ond down coming up. Larsen, the rou.ghs)le>d over teams o~ .schools ·roan course, however, will un- Alpha. Delta Phi .. ·. · · · · • · · DeWitt's Luneh Room and Tap Room Watch and Jewelry Repairing . a Specialty ball carrier, on a play that stat ted whtch under nor-mal cond1tlons do doubtedly give Coach Ketz's men Beta Theta. Pi ............ . as a run, stopped and cut a ·long not al~I:a-;;t an abundance Of football trouble since it is all upgrade for North College · · · · · · · · · · · · · · We Serve Better Fo()d for Better Health 118-120 JAY ST. pass into the end zone, Tucker, the matenal. the first 1.2 miles. Lambda Chi Alpha ....... . PARKER PENS r-eplacement for Stugls, was free \If it (cessation of special grants) The Garnet had· little opposition· Phi Sigma Kappa ........ · but the pass led him too much and means weakening our teams, then from the Middlebury runners last Delta Chi . · ........ ·. · · · .. · · 72.222 72.222 61.111 60.908 51.111 50.000 Opp. New City HaJJ he merely tipped it with his fingers. they will have to be weaker and Saturday; only one Panther har- Delta Phi · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · If this had been completed it would theie will be no criticism of our rier managed to interfere with the South College · · · · · · · · · · · · · have been their fitst touchdown. coaches as a result of defeats that running order of Union's first five Theta Delta Chi . · ·. · · · · · · • since the second game of the sea· may coiD.e our way,\ Hagan said. men, the last of whom came In LOUIS WASSERMAN son, and would have given the It has been understood that Pitt within 53 seconds of the first. The Rochester defenders, led by Felix· intends to bring its schedule into course ls about 4.2 miles long over Bolonek, something to fight for. Eastern· territory almost exclu- the rolling :Middlebury golf course Offensively, outside of theil• briei sively. a:rtd Hawkes was able to negotiate sortie .in the third quarter the Included in the r-ules of the new the route in 24:12.6, to break the YellowJacket~ went nowhere. The~ policy .is one that no coach will be record of 24:32 set by Captain Col- ;,ould n~t gam. through the st.urd;y permitted to initiate a contract !ins of Williams two weeks ago. uarnet lme which was resoundmgly with an.y athlete or attend any Hawkes was followed by Ed backed up by Stubby Adams and game w·ith the idea of \scouting Wells, and Paul Santoro, both of Jake Amazon, and they had no for athletes.. whom ran well to tie for secon(l passing attack worthy of the name. · place. Post, a Middlebury sophc;~- Union shook off its lethargy ---OI--- mor~, took fourth and Frank Mel- twice for sustained drives which ewicz, showing the most improve-. wound up in the end Z<Jne. on the lntel'elass Games to End ment of the season ran fifth. Bill first march Union moved almost ex- Fall Lacrosse Practice Johnson came in sixth and was elusively through the middle. When Union's fifth man in the rating.· their running plays stalled for Summary! . · three downs on the Rochester 23, Monday, Nov. 8 - Practice ses- Hawkes <U) 2 4 !1 2 .6; Wells (U). r d h t and Santoro (U) tied for second, Hammerstrom s tppe as or pass sions for freshman lacrosse will be 24·.42·, Post. ·(M) 24:44·, Melewicz over the center of the Yellow- jacket's sliding seven man line to concluded one week after the close (U) 2>t~'50; Johnson {U) 25:054;' Bockmyer for a first down on the of the football season, it was an- Richardson (M) 25:12. Rochester six yard line. After Bill nounced today by Fred Wyatt. Thomas had gained two yards at left guard Brocltmyer pounded center for the first score. Van Ladd converted from placement. After this score Brockmyer and Oliver went into a prolonged punt- ing duel which was only punctu- ated by Rochester's threat at the start of the second bali, and Union's final march at the end of the fourth period. With Hammer- strom calling the plays and doing most of the passing and carrying the Dutchmen moved quickly and convincingly for fifty-four yards and the last touchdown. Amazon scored that one on a quarterback' sneak. The same short pass play. ' which set up the first score worked. twice in this last march for first: downs. Following this there will be some intercla..ss games. The schedule for these tnatches is as follows: fr-esh-. man vs. sophomores, November 17 at 3 p. m.; juniors vs. senior·s, J)J'o. vembel\ 18 at 3 p. m .. The two win-. ners -will play for the championship on F'rlday, the 19th. Arrangements for stlelts; helmets, and equipment will b!'> taken care of. Mr. W'yatt expt·esses the hope that all experi- enced J:llen will report for these· in- terclass contests. For House Linen Service PHONE 4·3166 AMERICAN COATI APRON & LAUNDRY • , · COMPANY 1030 Barrett St. Football Field Meet The events of the Football Field Meet will begin promptly at 12:45 p. m. on Wednesday, November 10. A NMW .SYMBOL OF . a national organiz!l-- tion dedicate to the sci.' entific control of dairy products, this seal is your assurance of finer ice cream. QUALITY MEAT MARKET 354 Broadway Phones 4-3364, 4·3365 THE CAMPUS BARBER SHOP Basement of Silliman Hall A Special Ser.vice for Union Students Anth~y F. Barbieri Hours: 1:30-7:00 P. M. GAZETTE PRESS Printing G- E Campus News · FLOODLIGHTING DAVY JONES' MODERN LILLIPUT LOCKEJ{ Hamiltc;~n will probably spend this · weelt drilling against that one, ·but by that time the Garnet quarter- backs may have :devised something . else. The unwillingness of both , teams to ·depart froin consetvative: and conventional football made it· a very- dull game to watch, but then, sloppy blocking by Union, and the fact that they could win without opening up may have some- thing tb do with it. They may sur- prise everyone at Clinton by pass- ing on the first down ot· something ,. When Capt. John D. Craig, deep-sea diver and photo~rapher, descends to the black .depths of thr; Irish Channel to photograph. the salvage operations of the Lusitania, Davy Jones' Locker will he floodlighted. for the first time in history. Wire, three thousandths of an inch in diameter. f!altene.! between two polished roll~rsto a thiek- ness of nine ten-thoup,andths of an ineh; pivots gl.\oumt to a pnin I and then rounded to a radiuA half the diameter of a human hair, yet still sharper than the shal.\pest needle; sapphires nat as large as the head of a pin. Such Lilliputian parts are to be found in the West Lynn plant of the General Electric Company. deviiish like that . Two of Union's \sick\ men, John Krull and Augie Kluge, managed to get out and do a bit of furious tackling and blocking. Bud Freihofer narrowly missed ending his local football career with a spectacular touchdown when he just missed connections with Ham- merstrom's long pass with three minutes to go in the final period. Bud would have been free for a score, if he had found the handle on that one. Boxing Is ''Safe\ Sport Boxing and dancing, along with tennis, track, and golf, are rated among the minimum hazard group, according to some data on \safety in Physical Education\ presented by Dr. V. W. Lapp and James Raport, of the University of Kan- sas department of physical edu- cation. On the ot:her ha11d, the sup- posedly \safe\ game of touch foot- ball, and heavy apparatus exercises were found to be definitely in a hazardous group. Smartest Dinner Club in the Cc:rpita·r :Distr1c-t DINNER MUSIC: 6 ... 8 Minimura Charge SOc Week Dayro $1.00 Saturdays and Holidays Your Favorite Chef MAC WAY formerly of The ANTLER'S CLUB Dinner Served Evenin$11 5to8 Offering Our Special 756 Dbmer , .............. .... Also A Ia cal.\te Our Dinner Show Promptly at 7:00 Featuring LEON FIELDS and Complete Cblmge of Show Celebrate All-College Week-end With Fun and :Frolic After the Da.noos Music Continued At 9 Until Closing Late Show U:OO and 12:30 Catering to Dinner Parties Banquets C.l\IPS Prop. and Mgr. John F. Gibbons PHONE 6a9852 l Dr. Lapp said that the studies by Lloyd, Deaver, and Eastwood ' ·Showed that touch .football 'had 17.1 accident for each 1,000 ex- posures to its actlvilies; heavy ap- paratus had 13.6, and o1d style , football, 8.7. Heavy apparatus caused the greatest absence from school by reason of accident, with . 88 days lost pet' 1,0<l0 ex.posures ; touch football 81.1> days; wrestling, 12.4: days; Jootball, 64,(} days, ·••••••••••••••••••••••••••IR The hulk o! the iil-b.ted J..usitania lies buried in ~hifting sand at a depth of approximately 300 feet, with a treasure in her coffers valued at between $4,000,000 and $15,000,000. To illumi- nate the wreck for filming, the General Electric Laboratories in Nela Park, C1eveland, Ohio de- veloped a 5000-watt lamp, built to withstand a pressure of 500 pounds to the .sqn<t\e inch- more than three times the pressure believed to be around the vessel. Capt. Craig will use a battery ,of 12 of these lamps mounted on a ·Submarine stage to fl.oodligh t the inky depths. So widespread are the uses of electricity that .the development of an underwater lamp merely illustrates the problems encountered by the G-E engineers. Many of these men were oil the college campus but a few y<\ars ago. A pivot wifh a point tw<J thousandths of an inch i~ diameter, yet it supports a pressure ()f many thousands of pounds to the square inch. Hundreds of such parts are assembled to pro· duce instruments-instrun1ents that me11sure small flows of current, gl.\eat flows of currrn t, light, sound, vibration, strain and time. These instruments are so sensitive that they measure the smallest quantities, yet sturdy enough to withstand the severe vibrations of a locomotive cab or an airplan<' dashboard. ThP design and manufacture of precision instru- ments is but one of the many fields which are open to technically trained men in the General Electric Company. GENERAL 8 ELECTR!£

Page Four THE CONC()BDIENSIS, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1937 Yale Funds Reach Union's Early CQurses Were Few $104;083,076 T()tal A. d ilr C nn 1'1.eagre· ompared wit,h Present NEW HAVEN, Conn., Nov. &- Yale University, as a teaching- in- stitution, spent $6,840,134.80 du:vlng the year ended June 30, accot·dmg to the report of the tteasurer. Gifts totalled $6,787,507.90, bringing the net totaJ of Yale's funds to $104,- 083,076.94. The principal items of expense were $3,006,615.43 for instzu~tlon, $603,472.74 for financial assistance to 1,639 students; $529,791.66 for research financed by special gifts; $491,164.~0 fo1· libraries and read- ing rooms; $456,503.39 for museums, laboratories and general reseat·ch. The expenditures cited, it was pointed out, do not reflect a large part of the disbmsements rnade during the year by such otganiza- tions as the Yale Athletic .A.ssucia- tion,, the university's dining ha11, serVIce bureaus and office in charge of buildings and maintenance. La:rgest of the umestricted gifts to income was $256,458 from. the Yale Alunmi University Fund As- sociation. This amount came from 8,581. contributors. Blodgett Leads Lectu:t·e Series at Gloversville ~--~--~------------~-- \There shall be four cGourses in the college-the first of la..nguages, courses had consisted overwhelm- the second of history and belles let- ingly of such sci~ntiflc subjects as tzes, the third of mathe'Illa..t!Cs, and botany, astronGom~, natural philo:so- the fourth of phllosoph:y. . ,\ t ead phy, trigonomeett y, conic analysis, a college publication in ihe year minerology, c::heem.ist1·y, and algeb:ra. 1796, and to the Union student of At any rate l.Jraiom was a pioneer m that day that simple statement was this field, and :shottly afterward all important !01 it cont.ained all Union migbt 1]).e said to have that could definitely be set down offered thre-e -col!ltses, for In 1829 concerning tb.e C1trriculum. .And President El ipbalet Nott was ont:e in the grasp of thlese four elected to a sicnlliar position at the omnivorous subjects tb.e students' newly founde-d Rensselaer Poly- Jnly salvation was in recourse to technic InsUtmte in Troy where in- the tolerence of the ins ttuctors for struction in c ivll engineering was such conveniences as elect.ives we 1 e offered. In 1~9 Dr. Nott resigned then unheard of, and thee practice as head of tthe 'l'roy institution of changing une's inst.t utctor wa~ and introdu<!ed c:tvil engineering at quite tmpossibie. Umon undel' t.he ditection of Pro- fessor Gille,;pi e -who had also been That the course of s-;ludy was connected witih R. p, 1. meag1e in comparison with the ali NOTICES A number of the senior class have not advised the Placement Bureau about their plans for the next year. If you are among this ,group, will you please file your blank this w·eek? The thil'd instanment Qof tuition is due and should be paid at the Comptroller's Office on Monday, November 16. No bills are issued and it is requested that all students having payments due make them promptly as any made after the above date will be subject to the usual fine. The Second Installment of dormi- tory rent is due on the .same date <November 15) as is the second quarter dining hall fee. Bills have been issued covering .these two pay- ments. Hours for paying these fees are: 9 a. m. to 12:30 p.m. and from 1. p. m. to 4:45 p. m. Tickets for the Hamilton foot- ball game are on sale at the gym- nasium office. Reserved seat tick- ets for students only will be $1.15 each if purchased here. If pur- chased at Clinton, they will be $1.65 each. Sale of tickets will close at noon on Friday, Novembet• 12. Empire Players Offer College Reduced Prices Special discounts will be given students and faculty membe1s of the college by The Empire Players at their pe1·formances in the E1·ie Theatre. Upon i<l!entificatlon, by means of athletic ilckets or other proof of connection \vith the college, stu- dents and faculty will be able to obtain orchestra. seats at night for 85 cents, and at matinees for 65 cents. Seats in the first ibalcony at night will be sold for 65 cents also. These prices represent a reduction of about twenty percent. Fraternity groups will be ruble to obtain blocks of seats at special rates. -----0·--- St()rk Visits Enzers A baby boy, eight and three- quarters poiUldS, was born to Mr. and Mrs Milton M. Enzer, Novem- ber 5. Baby and mother are doing well. UN I TV SHIRT SHOP 104 Broadway Jusi ()ft Stata Dt·. Wooley to Speak Students and faculty members of Union College w·ill attend the an- nual dinner-meeting of the Student Christian Movement Friday, De- cember 12 at the First Presbyterian Church in Albany. D1. Mary E. Woollty, president-emeritus of Mount Holyoke College, wil'l speak em •·students and the ChJiiiUan baith.\ ----o----- \Vagoner Heads Camera Club Landon A. Wagoner, '38, was elected president of the Camera Club at a meeting on November 1. At the same time Al'thur E. Low- enthal, '41, was elected vice-presi- dent and Edward N. Case, '41, sec- retary-treasurer. Restauro.nt-'l'ap Room-Dellcatesscn GOLD'S ALWAYS POPULAR CONNELLY BROTHERS Under the direction of Pzofessor Harold Blodgett, of the :field of English, an adult educatiOn gt·oup in Gloversville, is making an inten- sive study of the modern English and American novel. including se.lection off eted m the This CUL\l'lC:Uhuzn had changed present college catalogue is shown very little by 1879 when the first m a letter of the H:on Francts issue of the Concordiensis ap- Waylanu of the class a f 1814 in peared on the campus. The scienti- which he say~ \ ... the course of fie fields ha-d all •been strengthened, study was vety limited Chemistry and courses i:n -electrical engineer- was scarcely born; eleclrtcity was ing had been added', but the cata- a plaything; algebra wat.s studied Iogue of that yea.r shows that a for six weeks; and geology was freshman in tbe classical course named only to be laughe-d at. , • I had tb.e folloV'Vil1lg subJects his first studied Kame's Elements and term: Liv:y, Xenophon, Homer-, Stewart on tb.e mind, and heard algebra, Gr:·ee k prose composition, essays of older students on these Latin prose ococnpositton, rhetoric, and kindred topics with! a vague and geometry-all of which were notion that if I were old er I could also pat t of the daily diet of the ~~~;;;~~~;;;;;;:;;;;;;~~;;;:;;;;:;;;;:;~ 1 do the same thing, but that at classical s.tuo;ie!nts of 1828. 'l'he r pz esent it was out of tlt-e question freshman e!Lgirteer of that day DAIRY Inc:~ The subject is to be prese11 ted at the Gloversville Community Center in a series of six weekly lectures, the first of which was presented on Tuesday evening, October 25. A reading list and bibliography is pro- vtded for tb.e 75 adults who have already 1egistered. for ooe to understand a..nd teason started wit~ a.lgebra, French BELLINGER PAINT CO. about these 8Ubjects as they did.\ grammar, Latin or English, history, Arthur '£rigg, Prop. In 1828 an mnovation was made and trigonoll!letry; and the engi- Ad IH t when a scientific course ·was added neering stmien.t started with a PalntlJ, Oils, Varnishes, Glass, am a S to the classical curricul urn; or it maze of te-ch:nk:al subjects such a.s Brushes and Wall Paper $2.95 1858 Hetmburg Street PHONE 2·0.910 might be said a cla.ssioe:al course surveying, c:on.ic analysis, and 126 BROADWAY was organi~ed, fo1· the oLd~c:la~s:s:i~c:al~~o~p~ti~c:~s,~w~h=i~~=h~la.:=st=e=d~f:o~r-f~o~u~r-·~y~e:a~rs:·~~=::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::~~~~==========~~::::::~~~~~:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:==::=~ The toptcs to be dlscu,;~ed m the lectures are as folio\\. The :.1 ave! of Character; The Revolt of the Realists; The Romanttctsts · The Economic-Social Novel; Th~' Pt es- ent Outlook in England; The Pte\ ent Outlook in America. Plans h.ave been made to ptcviue some comment, at the conclu.oton of tb.e series, upon some of the gtt•at figures in the European mnel, ~ud. as Marcel Ptoust, Thomas Mann, Jacob Wwsezmann, and Romam Rolland. C'ALF.NDAR TuiLight 6 30 p n1 Sch• 'JPrtn<h Aiucnni A\:--ori:ltil)n D1nnf~t HnlP Hou•e 7 45 p m ('J t<<i< ~I rlnh 1\!f·pt- ing nr Kf'ilngg'q ~ym po<IIID1 on Litora•y Srrttte 7 30 p. m Phtlomet hE'HCl Hn- ciety Meeting, Old ChHJH'I Tomorrow 10:00 a. m.-Da1ly As:oembiy, Spealter, Lesh<' R Patttath, '39. 1 00 p m -Radto Club MH•ttng, Lecture Room. Eiel'ttt\~' En- gmeerlng Butldmg 4:30-6·00 p. m. Public ::;peak- ing Class, Old ChapeL 7:00 p. rn.-Social Wm ket'sDin- ner, Hale House. Thm·sday 10.00 a. m. Daily A»•cmbly, Speaker, Mr. H. L. Davld, Di- rector of Technical EtnplJy- ment and Training, NPw Yorl~ Telephone Company. 7.00 p m Iowa State C'ollq.;E' Alumni Dinner, Hale House. 7 00 p. m. Faculty Men's Uub Meeting, Hale House Lounge. 7:00 p. m.--Mohawk Valley Hik- ing Club, Old Chapel, Lec- turer, W iII i am Glue•ing, \Travels in Bntlsh Coium- bia.\ 11·15 p.m.-Radio Debate, Union vs UniverSity of Ver- mont Mens Team, WGY Friday 10.00 a. m. Dally As5emb'y, Recital, Dr Elmer A. Tid- marsh. Smith Spealis at Scotia Monday, Nov. 8.- The second in a series of student talks on current governmental problems was deliver· ed tonight by Jerome Smith, '39, be- fore the Scotia Study Club at Scotia on the \Constitutional Convention in 1938.\ The addresses are being a11·anged through the Union College Depart- ment of Government and the super- vision of Dr. Vernon A. O'Rourke, government professor. Smith outlined the histoty and composition of the past two state Constitutional Conventions in 1894 and Hll~ and spoke of tbe prelim- Inary groundwork, difficulties and problems facing the Jaw-revising body which meets in Albany in April 1938. Troy Second Shirt Cutlet SJ.M\\'allzlng Jn Finest ':l'roy Secoo.ds, Odds and Samples 715 State St. A.cl~SB from Arm.ory as Anchored 1-7 miles o}f shore, the Nantucket Lightship guides traffic on the Atlantic Coast. Mail and supplies come aboard once a month-one of tlze most welcome arrivals is the supply of Chesterfields. Chesterfields give more pleasure to smokers wherever they are . 0 • On land or sea or in the air Cllesterfields satisfy millions all over the world. They're refreshingly milder ••• They're different and better. . .. a taste that smokers like E T s To Z51l Vol. L} Jac For First Wee .signed day ni the sr by th• Pa.trc college also na arrang• pleted. The posed and a at the land B This V' gaged at a f• which from 1 \Th• SUI Pal' Yunic: Co !leg quests alumn thusis under centr~ all-ca: ent g entizE Tic temil of th bteri, Hall, the Ill 1' Hym The char: NOVE cedir form will Tt nour and and and and war1 Dlx< Cha Rus thOl Ch11 Mrs K~ A F fice Nu exe am fra Kr: Th ou· l wi tic ac R• ch ga y, at M SE u: s. E b ti s t t 1 ]

mbers of the an- l Student :lay, De- sbyterian Mary E. itus. of lil'l.speak Ch1-i~Uan 'ra Club '38, was. Camera ~ember 1. · E. J;.ow• lice-presi- !, '41, sec- lca1essen ·s .AR tree+ 0 1e air ~rthe :r • • • z 511 E!f;Wen To End Seasofl Tomorrow UNION COLLEGE li3RARY • • SlS Smith Signs For All-College Dance Vol. LXI., No-. 15 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1937 PRICE FIVE CENTS Jack ·smith's Band Signed For First All-College Dance First Ali'·Campus Dance Thanksgiving Eve In Alumni GymRasium hom 10 to 2; PatTons Announced Wednesday, Nov. 10-Jack Smith and his orchestra was signed today to play at the All-College Dance on Wednes- day night, November 24, in the Alumni Gymnasium under the sponsorship of the Student Council, it was announced by the committee in charge of the dance. Patrons fm the first i!Xlportant<$>·--------------- Brown, Noted Traveler, Movie Concern Apologize!S To Give LectUI~es Here For Slandering Union Harrison Brown of the Institute. Unfavorable publicity which the of International Education of New RKO moving picture \Saturday's York City, will begin a. four-day Heroes\ gave to Union was stay on the campus Wednesday formally apologized for, according night, November 17, when he· will ·to a story in the new November speak in the Old Chapel at 8 o'clock number of the Alumni Monthly. on some phase of the inter.national According to the alumni publi- situation. cation, RKO has not only fully The remainder of bis stay at apologized, but has withdrawn the Union will be taken up by Daily film from circulation, and has of- Assembly and class roorn· addresses, fered to, on their own expense, two roundtable discussions with insert a letter of apology in the students and faculty and several newspapers of a:ll the cities· in luncheon and dinner engagements. which the film .appea~ed. Mr. BroWn bas traveled exten- Mr. Hiram C. Todd and Allen sively in Europe and Asia and fr-om H. Jackson of the Board of 1928 to 1933 lived in Germany Trustees called upon the attorney where he had the opportunity to of the producer, and the subse- 45th Annual Hamilton Game Will End Union Grid Season Garnet Eleven Primed to Overthrow Continental Jinx in Contest at Clinton ,.fomorrow; Both Teams Evenly Matched college dance of the year were also named this afternoon, and final arrangements are now a:lmost com- pleted. co . nnci·l Rei·n·. stat·es ·study the Fascist movement at first· quent action followed. According · hand and deliver the •last uncen- to the Alumni Monthly, the College Aroused by a graphic description of Union losses at Clinton since 1890, narrated by Prof. Bronnet· last week in chapel, and by the disturl>ing fact that Hamilton has garn- et~ed every contest played on Steuben Field since 1929, the Union varsity is primed on the eve of the traditional battle: to conclude an overly-successful season with a decisive tri- umph over the Buff and Blue. ------------~--~ Although Hamilton for some 42: F h H • sored broadcast from Germany \has what the laWyers call a good res man · a1rcuts .after Hitler assumed the chancel- libel case against RKO.\ lorship. His radio talks over the The name of a \Union College\ British Broadcasting System on was mentioned frequently in the Fraternity Council Discusses Program years managed to chalk up a will:o every time the Dutchmen played!. away from home, the balance oE victories GV~r the 45 year rivahy lies in Union's lap, the statistics l:>eing 1& wins for Union, 16 for Hamilton, 10 games being tied. 'l 1 he Jack Smith orchestr·a, com- posed of twe1ve instrumentalists and a .female vocalist, bas played at the Hotel Syracuse and Silver- land Ballroom in central New York. Day Says Measure Will Rem- edy Lack of Class Unity And Action This week-end the orchestra is en- Wednesday, Nov. 10---£trict en- gaged to play at Colgate University forcement of the two existing freshman rules was voted tonight at a function similiar to the dance by the Student Council after a which will be held here two weeks hectic discussion on the virtues from today. of maintaining Union's \colrfUl \The ticket sale thus far has traditions\ by the strong arm sutpassed expectations,\ David L. method. Yunicb, '39, chairman of the All- The majority sentiment of the College dance stated. \Many re- Co\Ulcil favored giving all infrin- quests for tickets have come from gers of the rules oi wearing alumni who seem to be as en- freshman hats and keeping seats thusiastic over the affair as the in dally assembly, haircuts under undergraduates. What we are con- the supervision of the Student centrating on now is to insure an Council. all-campus attendance, not differ- The motion made by John Krull, ent gtoups in the colleg-e but the '40, chairman of the sophomore entire college as one group.\ discipline comm.ittee, declared that Tickets arc available from fra- \the Student Council will sancti<>n tel'nity oocial chairmPn, membets enforcentent of freshman rules af- uf the Student Council, Tony Bar- ter t.wo infringements,\ The meas- bieri, in the brusement of Silliman ures to put this into effect will HaJI, Vilmar K. Bos~. president of be the administering of haircuts the Pyramid Club. Frank Moore, to all delinquent freshmen in the in North CoJiege dormitory artd college barbershop. Hyman A. Enzer, in South College. The lack of unity in the classes The deadline for $1.50 per couple· and the alleged lack of colorful charge has b~en set until noon on activity on the campus· was cited November 22, the Monday pre- by President Winterton U. Day as ceding thr dance, which will be two good reasons why the fresh- formal. After this time the price mao. rules should be so enforced. will be $2.0() ·per couple. The majority of the Council con• The Jist of patrons, also an- cu.rred in this view. Haircuts, nounced today, are as follows: Dr. said Day, would be given with the and Mrs. William W. Bennett, Dr. official blessing of the Council. and Mrs. Frederick L. Bronner, Dr. The principal objectors to the and Mrs. Harrison C. Coffin, Dr. motion were Hyman Enzer, Tyler and M;rs. Earl E. CUmmins, Dr. Ed- Dennett, and Laurence Achilles. ward Ellery, President and Mrs. In lengthy argument which finally Dixon Ryan Fox, Dean and Mrs. resulted in the passing of the Charlea F. F. Garis, Mr. and Mrs. resolution, they pointed out that Russell A. :Hall, Mr. and Mrs. An- colorful traditions could not be thony Hoadley, Dr. and Mrs. forced upon the students. Tradi- · Charles N. Waldron, and Dr. and tions should be maintained by in-' Mrs. Peter I. Wold. dividual desire and not by force. ---0 ---ol----- Kappa Nu to Celebrate Santoro Picks Up Fifteen Anniversary Qf Founding Dollars; Then Loses Race Representatives of national of- fices and college chapters of Kappa Nu. fraternity will be present at the · exercises to com)llemorate the 26th anniversary of the founding of the fraternity, Sunday afternoon, at the Knights· of Pythias Hall in Albany. The ceretnonies will last through- out the d$y, climaxed by a smoker. Iota chapter of Union College will attend with a large delega- tion of metpbers and wil1 take an. active part in the conference. The Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute chapter-, as well as chapter dele-· gates from Alfred College and New York University, will also be in attendance. Among the speakers will be M. Michael Dobris of Albany, repre- senting the Capital District Grad- uate Club; Benjamin Naumoff of Schenectady, national secretary of Kappa Nu fraternity, speaking in behalf of the national organiza- tion and governing body and Jo- seph Einhorn of Albany, national treasurer, representing the na- tional board. Neese Wins Sellolarship Cross-country may be gruel- ling sport, but it has its re- wards. Anyway, Paul Santoro realizes that. Paul, one of the sophomore stars on the squad, journeyed to Clinton witl;l. the Garnet forces to meet the Colgate harriers, and return- ed to Union ll) dollars richer than when he left. Before the PUI\itan element points an accusing finger 8lld shouts \subsidization\ it should be added that Santoro found ten and five dollar bills while warming up for the raee. Per- haps it was out of gratitude for this financial stroke that Paul finished tenth instead of his usual position. among the first five. College Y to Campaign William Gordon Neese, '34, has been Q.warded the Union College Law CLub Scholarship for study- at the Brooklyn I..aw School of St. Lruwrence University, Dean William Payson Richardson an- nounced yesterday. Neese was one of seven freshmen to receive scho- larships. The Christian Association will make a complete canvass of the campus fraternities next Tuesday evening in order to collect \un- usables\. Any discarded or near useless articles will be s-wept into the lot by the student campaign- ' ers. Clothes wlll be used directly for the benefit of the locel needy and books, house furnishings and sundry articles will be sold 8lld the sum realized will be granted to the Schenectady Boys Club. While at Union, Neese, a mem- ber o-f the Delta Upsilon fraternity, was manager of the freshman cross country squad and a candi- date ·manager for varsity lacrosse. He was elected to the Junior Prom doiiiJ.tlittee, and wa:s a member of the freshman baseball team. Fox Clarifies Situation Wednesday, Nov. 1{}-.-In order to clear any misunderstandings that may have existed about the pro- posed holiday on Saturday in con- junction with the Hamilton foot- ball game, President Fox 8llnonuc- ed in Daily Assembly today that it had been deaided to cancel all cmsses soheduled for Saturday, \Germany Today\ were very well film as an institution which ·received and subsequently publish- fostered subsidization of athletics ed in book form. and which engaged in dishonest ·This last year he bas spent in athletic practices. It .presented the travel in the Oment, Russia and practice of paying athlets to play Scandiavia. on college teams. He has written a series of articles The Alumni Monthly article con- on social and political conditions. eluded, \It is probably best to let in these countries, which were syn- it rest here, though the incident dicated in four countries. leaves us with a strong feeling of First Freshman Record Appears Yearbook Contains Pictures, Information about Class Of 1941 resentment that Union, standing as it does among that small group of colleges which conduct stricly amateur athletics, should have had this humilating experience.\ ---o---- Symphony to Begin Concerts on Monday By HERBERT 0. FOX The Schenectady Symphony Wednesday, Nov. 1()-The Fresh- 01·che\tra will inaugurate its series man Record, first ye11.rbook of its of three concerts in the Mont kind at Union College, was issued Pleasant High School Tuesday today to the class of '41. Feeling night at 8.30 o'clock, preceded by in general,. was favorable toward a lectute on the music one hour the book. One freshman approved earlier by Douglas Bailey, graduate the Record's value by remarking, of the Julliard School of Music and \Now I don't have to duck the .a member of the musical staff of scowling glance of an upperclass- the Metropolitan Opera Company man as I had to before this Issue, for seven years. when I indiscreetly asked him · h 'whether or not he was a fresh... Through the cooperat10n of t e sponsors and Dr. Elmer A. Tid- Another freshman commented marsh student tickets will go on on the general set-up and photo- sale at the College Bookstore Mon- graphy of the yearbook and said day and Tuesday at one dollar for that h.e had been \eagerly await- the series, a reduction of two ing information about classmates\ dollars for students only. and added that the Record had: Started four years ago, the Sche- fulfilled his expectations. nectady Symphony is realizing The tendency of the issue to this year more than ever before weld the class .together was the fruits of its ambitious pro- stressed by many. gram. From the first the intention The one note of adverse com- has been not merely to provide ment expressed by the freshmen good music for those who already was the fact that the yearbook appreciate and understand it, but had made its appearanc-e too late.' also to educate the general public The Record contains President in fostering an interest for the Fox's message; the .pictures of the classics. college officers, the freshmen, lists of their preparatory school, and Not only is the primary purpose activiti,es ~J,nd college address; pic-. to provide good music evident in tures of the freshinan camp; the the CO:t:\Stantly improving quality freshman athletic coaches and; of the orchestra, but also to take freshman teams pictures; pictures a novel and praiseworthy step in of the directors of student activ- adult education by the inauguration !ties; familiar faces about the of the explanatory lecture experi- campus, 11 uch as, Mrs. Rappelje, ment. This system will serve to Mrs. H. D. Jenkiru, \Tom\ Gould, make the concerts more than a \Ed\ Fitz, Miss Francis Travis, pleasant sensory experience for and Mrs. Cyrus Briggs. the less acquainted members of the Besides intimate campus pic- audience. It will enable them to tures, there are freshman statis- listen with their minds as well as tics such as, numbers, and geo- their ears. g.raphical distribution. ---o---- --o---- Paffrath Stresses Need Union Debates Vermont For Unity and Strength On Cooperative System Thursday, Nov. 11-Unable to ac- quire radio time as planned, debat- ing teams from-Union College and Vermont University conducted a roundtable diBcmsil;m tonight in Silliman Hall on the subject, Re- solved: \That the consumers' co- operative system offers a more sat- . isfactory means of distributing an-d producing goods than our present system.\ Vermont upheld the af- firmative side and Union the neg- ative side. ---o•--- Tuesday, Nov. 9-\We cannot go along in this business of existing without becoming aware of a new worlCb-wide recognition of the ne- cessity of unity,\ Leslie R. Paffrath, '39, .president of the college Chris- tian Association, stated in Daily Assembly t{)day. He traced the trends oi the right to unify within the various labor organizations· in the country and also pointed out that in recent European governments it is the same unity of widespread and di- verse forces which gives them such strength. Uelegate Selected to Attend Intelfraternity Council In New York City Monday, Nov. S The t·erently organized Interfraternity Council planned an ex.tensi ve list of ac- tivities for the coming year which will feature a program of exchange dinners, an all-college dance fo1· spring interfraternity week-end, and a systematic program of a sub-freshman week-end, in their meeting in the Hale House lounge today. With Robert C. Denzler as chair- man, the long dormant council be- came active for the first time since 1934, when, because of in- difference it was abandoned. The council dectded upon a ptogt·am of exchange uinners in whic·h the various fraterni tie<~ would he th£' guests of others. They adoptcu a proposal to consider an all-college dance, to be held in conjunction with spring inter-ftaternity week- end, and which would be spon- sored by the council. It also plan- ned a sub-freshman week-end dur- ing which the various councils would cooperate in entert.alning, and accomodating prospective freshmen. Moreover the Council decided to present a motion at the next Student Council meeting to ask for approval as a student ol'ga.ntza- tion. They also voted to send Denzler, as president, to be a delegate at the National Inter- fraternity Council meeting in New York City. PJ.·ovisions for election of officers and transaction of business was made for the com.ing meetings. The council voted to include for membership to the Coun~il. one delegate and one alternate from each fraternity. The next meeting of the Ceuncil is scheduled for Monday. Novem- ber 15, at 7:30. ----•0--- Appoint Wold Chairman Of - Physics Association Each team has gone througb a strenuous bit of practicing fo:r the annual fray. Hamilton, unde:r head coach Art Winters, ha.s beer~ view.in.g movies of last yeat·'s Un,- ion-Bamilton game, in addition t<J learnin~ methods of halting th~ Garnet attack wh1ch has beem :ocuute d at variou:; limes this fall Hamilton ha.<; had a fairly con- sistent record, gaining three vic- tories over opponents in the sat!Le clas~ with Union, but dropping a one-sided game to Haverford last Saturday. Union, on the other hand, has run up its be~t te<:ord in years with a total of four vicc- tories, two losses and one defeat. StudE-nts Back Team Enthu~iasm is running high for the fitst time in year~ at Union Enhanced by the qeclaration of a hol1uay on Satut duy morning by college officials, many of the >tu- uent bouy will make the trip B.Z'ld hill-chtnb to the Hamilton carnp.ue with the oulc thought of bringi:11~ badt the bacon. Advance sale of llckets hao been unu,ually meag-er, but indication:> point to a goodly number· of spectators being pre- sent. Pt·eoident Fox will head €h<> Unton delegation, and the batnd will take its only out-of-town t.rip to add a flash of color to the oc- casion. A,; far as material strength is concerned, the teams SN'm to be fairly eve.n. Hamilton has b-een crippled for several of its ~on­ tests, but is fal rly cHtaln of hav- ing its first eleven intact for th€ game every Continental points for. Marty Hilflinger, knifing en.d, has been laid up at various times ihis fall but probably will he bact..-. in the lineup tomorrow. Myron Car- tContinued on Page 3) Fox Names Hale HousE Diuing Room Committee Thursday, Nov. 11.--Pnsi<dent Dixon Ryan Fox today annotL need the appGintment of seven men to serve on the Hale House Diming Room Committee for the sea,s.on 1937-38, the purpose of w hic:h is to study the administration of Largely the result of the work Hale House from the sttLdent- of a committee headed by Dr. Peter customer point of view an>d to I. Wold, professor of Physics at listen for and mal•e suggestions: Union College, the Physics Asso- to the Administration. dation of Upper New York State Headed by Assistant Comp- was formally organized at a meet- troll-er ·Charles T. Male, challl'm.an, ing of 200 physicists at Cornell the committee consists a>f J. University, Saturday. Lawt·ence Henellsey, '3&, N. IDa:vid For the past year the committee Light, Jr., •40; H. Don~ld ILadley-, had canvassed opinion as to the '40; Walter E. Burke, '38; V\ilinar desirability of such an org-anization. K. Bose, '38 and John S. Wold, '38. The meeting at Ithaca, a.ttended No definite time has bee-n set by physics teachers of universities, for the first meeting, to be called colleges and high schools and by by Professor Male. physicists in the industries, repre- Tlle Dining Room, with t~e rest sented the first meeting of the of Hale House, was opened early Association. The management of in t.he spring of last year, the l'e- the Association is vested in a com- sult of a gift of an annon.ytnous· mittee of five of which Dr. Wold donor. Besides providing f>()r the is chairman. . meals of dormitory mea and ----o----- we-ekly dinnet'll for Fi·eshlrlen, it has become a popular pla.ce for Professor Male Expected group banquets and dinn-ers.. Sunday Chapel Speaker The Rev. Mr. C. Leslie Glenn, Pastor of Christ Church, Cam- bridge, Mass., will deliver the ser- mon at the Sunday m.orning ser- vice in the Memoria:! Chapel at 11:00 o'clock. The services are broadcast by station WGY. Mr. Glenn is a graduate of the Stevens Institute of Technology where he was awarded the mech- anical engineering degree, and pre- pared for the ministry at the Vir- ginia Theological Seminary in Al- exandria, Va. \Relate the trend to local campus activity,\ Paffra.th remarked. \We seek, specifically, in the Christi8ll Association, to draw together the diverse talents and interests of the collegiate bod:y and funnel them Into one project to make it a vital working force. We ask for no re- vival of r.eligious fervor. We have no desire to resurrect the Hal-. lelltjahism of a hack day. If each student will give piety in support, and be a religionist. only according to his own intei·est and talent we can. go quietly on without sermoniz- ing and omitting the preachments.\ Monday After Opemtion Thomas to.Give Third L-ecture Thursday, Nov. 11.-Pmfessor Charles T. Male, assistant ·compt- roller, was today reported recover' ing very· well from a min()r opera- tion performed Tuesday morning at Ellis Hospital. He was t·emoved to the bospital a short while be- fore the operation. His physicians informed the Con- cordlensis that, although showing more discomfort than they had planned, Dr. Male is ex:.pected to return to his duties Monday. Next Monday evening at 8:30 o'clock Rudolph Thomas, Eal'oiJcan conductor, will present thE third in his series of lecture ree ita.ls in the Old Chapel. His .subject will be La Tosca. All Unl()'n Col!ege students will be admitted free upon showing their athl-etic ~ards. Mr. Thomas will present a short bi.ographical sltetch of th.e corn- poset' and then play the mus·ic, explaining the story and thematic sequence.

Page Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1937 Professor Bronner reminded us of the muddy hex that still holds sway in Clinton. We should really .play tomoiTow's game by can- delight. Unf<Jrtunately, the Great Age of En'\ WORDS Symphomanla c DRIVEl ,--~~--------------J lightenment is upon us. Ji'OUNDED 1877 There are many pleasant features in existence Schenectadian; There are lots of friendly creatures who'll Instruct me on demand In a thousand types of learning, both concrete •and-well, Arcadian; Tuesday evening we were very, very puzzled indee<i. For in t.J:at edition of the Concor<iy we faued ·to notice our .colleague and com- ·petitor, Just in J ~st. But latest ·repoz'ts have unveilEd' the mystery, for it seems that t.he good Uncle \11 Causa Persa Parole Assai\ 1937 Member 1938 14ssociated CoUee;iate Press Dsstribu tor of Collee>iate Dit:Sest ~BPRF.SENTE!:D FOR NATIONAL AOV6RT1SING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Re/>re36nlativc 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N, Y. CHIC IIIlO • BosTON • LOS ANGELES • S.\N FRA.HCISCO The official newspaper of the students of Union Cullege. Published Tuesday and Fridays through- out the eo!lege year, except during Christmas and Spri ug l'el'e:5bes. PulJlicatlon Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., S~heneetady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mall Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year: delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial lluoms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campu>l. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Senior Board Hyman A. Enzer ............... Edltor-ln-Chief 11 S. S. South College-6·9728 Robert H. Ferguson .......... Managing Editor Psi Upsilon House--4-8710 Julius J. Bundgus .............. _.News Editor 9 S. S. South College-6-9728 Henry D. Hartmann .......... Feature Editor 7 o. G. n.-6-9620 Carl R. Trahman ........ __ .... _ .Sports Editor Kappa Sigma House--4-8325 John H. Gilmour .. _ ......... Business Manager Delta Upsilon House-4-7922 Ma•·vin M. Miller .. Associate Business Manager Kappa :o.;u-4-7331 Alfred R. Seigle ........... Circulation Manager Kappa ,!';u-4-7331 Junior Board ASSUCJATE EDITORS Herbert u. !•'ox Rober! A. Saar Frederick W. Hequemb<Jurg Jerome Smith H. \Vym\n Hitchcock Edward C. Retartylt Robert C. Walter, Jr. SCALP 'EM! But my little heart is burning for the music of the band. · Oh, I really cannot study, and my just hadn't quite recovered from A cl' t · 't t f h S head is bowed and bloody, an extremely hectic V{eekend. It's CCOr ·Ing · 0 a majOfl Y VO e 0 t e . tu- And I'm feeling- slightly muddy .bad business, Uncle, very bad busi- dent Council the few freshman r.uies n()W in here besides the Mohawk Vale, ness to dissipate when you'1e a ff For I want to •mea;r the trumpets columnist as you!t:\e always very· e ect need enforcing. A motion, passed and like a pack of brazen strmnpets conspicuous in y~ur absence to probably put into effect before the publica- Being sounded by the plump .pets* your dear public Oh.at is if you of Professor Charley Male! have one). tion of this editorial, was put on record that · • • • all second infl\inQ'ements of the rules now in There's a hundred thousand in- · Things are in a ilad st~tte of af- ~ stances, both real and allegori- fairs on the camp,us. We walked effect should be made punishable by drastic cal, into the philosophy class one morn- action. That drastic action 1 ·s to be the ad- Of Music and the .savage Breast, ing, our mind quite dazed from or so I undil1•stan,d; wildly .perusing coo.ce]Jts and Jaws, . ministering of haircuts to all offenders, and And Doctor Fox could prove to me and had settled quietly .for a bit with chronicles historical! .of mild philosophic discussion. On unlike the .. .barbarous\ action of last year The medicinal virtues of the blar- that particular m0oming, our prof the haircutting will be done under the offi- ing of a band. . pulled out his usual s-crap of paper ; and began to take attendance. One cia! supervision of the Student Council in So I want to hear the howling ot. of our fellaw students was imme- T • B b h the saxes and the yowling : diately interested in .the whyness · ony S ar ers op. Of the comets and the growli11g oi of things. \Do you?\ he asked, deep The protagonists of that motion declared. the tubas, and the hum ·in thought, \take attendance by Of the oboes, and the greeting in. .seats.\ \No ansvvered the prof' that what the college needed was: first, a the Uttle fife-let's bleating, immediately, \I talt:.e attendance by more unified class feeling; second, a little And especially the beating of the . faces.\ • • • Dithyrambic Drwn! · more color and zest in the humdrum exist- •H. o. F., for example. And then there'.s a little story ence of \going to college.\ The reinforce- · that our alert rep<>rter, or rather 0 0 0 · observer just broug·ht in, with the ment of the freshmen rules by this \drastic words Adopts a Cause : re~mlt that ~ur phi_losophic turn of action\ would help p1·ovicle the necessary For the past few weeks this col-: mmd was Ill).med~atoely shatte.red. umn has been advancing an unseen' He told us .about a rambunctious unity, color and zest. and unheard battle .against the· South <?~liege fresh~an ~ho ha.d The antagonists to the motion felt that Hale House commons ....... * been raJsmg havoa ll?th ~zs dorm.l- Frustrated by editorial censorship,:. tory mates by sn;:ab.ng mto. the.Jr · such revitalization of Union's tradition was the writer has been searching rooms, ~~:nd up.setttng everythmg m t th t th I f I 'd f I everywhere for a· new banner to' genoeral, mcludmg rnat.tress.es, books no necessa1-y ; a · e co or u Sl e o co - · wave in the face of the Philistines .. and clothes. They planned a ca:e- lege life still is with us in other forms than Unknowingly, a certain faculty f~l revenge. One hour ag?, the Wild class rivalt·y and freshman rules. Tradt'ti'on, Ph.D. who prefers to remain veiled .fresh was abducted and m ~ront of in anonymity has furnished the Washburn. Hall, v-et~ metJcu~usly they said, should be maintained without Jerusalem for this new Crusade. · removed htm from •ilLs only pair of \I am fed up,\ writes the Doctor,. trousers-the one he . had o~. The force and by individual volition. \with hearing students _ chiefly fresh broke away, trjl\mg to shatter In the recent past the editorial policy of freshmen-talk about 'Prof Jones ' the 220 record ~ac:lr to South Col- 'Pror White,' and so on, and r wo 1 ;_ lege. He was gom~ strong.' a.round den, just in front of the South College driveway, when the head- lights of a car, filled with women, which was driving out, caught him sharply, revealing him stark, shiv- ering, in all his absence of conven- tional attire. * * * From the hangover stories of the past week-end, we've formulated another moral ~ beware of blind da;tes. A.mong the victims of last week were tw:o Alpha Delts, one . junior neutral, and several unat- tached. Right here and now, we think, one should compose a tech- . nique for determining the potential qualities of a blind date before the night of the ordeaL We would sug- gest an exchange of snapshots, per- haps of essays on say \Benny Good\ man and 'the animal drive\ (for de- termining conversational ability), on measurement of height, size, ahd weight (obvious reasons), of an old toothbrush, (to investigate pink tooth brush conditions), and anum- ber of other things that might be lnstructi ve. • • * Bombshell ·of the Week: Stu- dent Council Decides to Revive Haircuts. This came as quite a sur- prise after last year's little affair when the vigilante committee took it on their own to do a little scalp- ing. We're heartily in favor of this action of the Student Council. We've always argued that it was just such heckling of freshman that adds a cevtain amount of color and tradition to a college, that even the freshman themselves like to boast about in the home town. The frosh may kick like the devil about the new ruling; they may want to re- volt, and they may take it out on an unwary sophomore, but yet when their first year is over, they will go about boasting ~oudly of what happened to them as fresh- men. -Jabie. Issue Editor Jerome Smith The Concordiensis has been set against der if you could not drive out this the corner of Mr s. Perkms gar- freshman hazing, paint scraps, tomato fights pernicious and unrefined habit by a .---------------------------- few well-chosen remarks. Obviously, and other varieties of interclass competition. the use of the word 'Prof' smacks L. Pellettier Assistants R. Saaf However, the pacifistic attitude .seems to be ~~~~!} 1 ~~~o!':~dunk or Siwash, and L. Schwartz less representative than we thought if what \And while we are on the sub- h S . ject, why not set yourself up as the t e tudent Council has done is any indica- Campus Emily Post, and point out tion. that the very bEst ,usage is to re- F. Hequembourg Friday, November 12, 1937 UNION COLLEGE SERVICE President Fox issued the following state- ment to The Concordiensis today: \Union Colleg:e participated as a unit in the collection campaign for the Ellis Hospi- tal and we are rather proud of the total of $11,()92 which was thus collected. The cor- poration itself gave $1,000 and there were several large gifts from m.embers of our staff. \But perhaps the most gratifying pa1t of all is that 70 members participated. I think anyone would conceive that this represented a fine public spirit on part of the faculty and an approximation of how much the hos~ pital means to us as a college.\ A WITCH'~ TALE All that's interesting in a spiritual sort of way is present in the football competition between Union and Hamilton which is re- newed tomorrow afternoon. The ghost of fer to a member of the faculty as The arguments for maintaining such 'Mr. Jones' and to address him as things as scraps and enforc-ement of fresh- 'Mr. Jones' or 'Sir'? \It is not at all necessary to keep man rules bring in a host of other prob- in mind fine academic distinctions. · ]ems. I, for one, think that we at Union tend to over-emphasize the \Pro- Will there be a greater unity in the fessoring' and 'Doctoring' of our faculty, and I know that a very· alumni body if classes do not have the spirit great many others agree with me. of '76 or '00 or '39? Will lack of freshman \You see, those who are not 'Tioc-· tor' or 'Professor' are sometimes· rules, scraps and other traditional colorful embarrassed at being called such, t · · 1 • · t• ? while those who are 'Doctor' or cus oms InJUre a umn1 orgamza lOllS . 'Professor' have outgrown caring Will this reversion to collegiate practices about such distinctions-or should! of an earlier period actually brighten the have outgrown it if they have noL\ 0 0 0 campus, inspire a glow of energetic living, A SoiDlet Condensed for the Read- and relieve the natural exuberance of youth? er's Digest, or, Lines on tl1e Will the college benefit from it? Approoiati:n ~f Male by Femaie We d()n't S€e the need for enforcing fresh- To man rules. We don't ·see the need for class Few Cry, scraps. The natural course of extra-curricular \WI:ty Do activities should be sufficient to take up You the excess energy which th.e Student Coun- Sigh, cil suggests should be put into carrying out When freshman rules. We Men The lack of collegiate spirit which is com- Thee plained of in this college is not entirely jus- :~~·?\ tified. There are still many students who by Homunculus sing the Alma Mater with intense fervor, 0 0 0 Thoughts WWle Bowling: The who find in whatever traditions that remain demise of the Nott Elni leaves the intangible feeling of colleg-e loyalty. As Johnny March as the oldest living. Union College tradition. Plenty of a matter of fact the size of the football team issue could be taken with Jabie on is argument against this revitalized college. his claim that the accelerated ver- sion of the Alma Mater contalm such football heroes as Dailey, Rosencrans existence. What small college football team more feeling than the old style· and Wittner hovers over Steuben Field and has done a better J'ob th1's year than our Your columnist heard the jazzed up tune at the Rochester game, and wet, wet tears are dropping on already sane- own. The amount of inter:est, we feel, is of felt none of the scalp tingling and throat lumping usually asso- tified g-round. little consequence so long as the quality is elated with. the slow and solemn Imagine a football jinx, a hex, a cabl>ala, good. Dchanti~gb of t.h\'Let dthe . Grecian . \ . . . ream y a ousan VOICes, out a flyfot, a gammadwn ot· Om mam padme Fr(}m the way alumm bocl1es react, senti- in the open air. Perhaps the differ- hum\-all of which belong to the mystic ment rather than intelligence has the great- ;~~; :::.d ~~~c~eC:;ee:m.a T~~PJ::; categories of hocus-pocus-inflicting all their est influence in the quantity and quality of -Club would want it ~o sound pop- . d d '] · fl U · d th h · . ular, but the between-halves peri()d · weir an ev1 m uences upon mon an e support t ey give t(} colleges. Perhaps at a football .,.arne demands the re- Hamilton teams in this day and age. building up an alumni ·body on the basis of ligious ceremony. And who could . . . . . . be so barbarous as to drive a. ca1 The superstitious are with us and the the am()Unt of \happy boy1sh memories\ over soft green Library field, by necromancer is still highly respected. The they had while in college is putting the virtue of the ruts left, beating tbe lacrossers to the annual deface- voodooes that football coaches try to avoid emphasis t()o much on the heart rather than ment?-H. M.s. are nothing compared to the abracadabra upon the head. Sh(}uldn't there be few bet- *Censore_d·----{)---- which followers of football teams love to in- ter reasons for having ties that bind than IN THE MAIL cant before the game. those of \the days when-?\ However, that November 11 , 1937 . The age of Union's rivalry with Hamil- is a question that requires other attention: To the Editor: ton flings a still mustier web of Mumbo Our principal concern her.e is to condemn The November 5 number of Tlze 1 · b d · h · d Concordiensis came, and I have Jumbo around the ath ebc com at an m- t e action of the Stu ent Council in not tl!ken much pleasure in its perusaJ: · dicates that tomorrow's contest will result considering a changing view of collegiate Times'certail).ly have changed sinc:e · '85-consideripg the changes in in the wearing of moth-eaten rabbits' feet, life. We admit, with the beast in us, that it autos and railroad trains, It is· no garlic rings, all the garden varieties of talis- would be entertaining to see a ball-and-chain wonder that change$! in college pa- pers should appear. I congratutate. mans, and the amulets of Isis. group of shorn freshmen. V.ery inte:resting. you a.na. your staff on the appear;-' W.e thoug-ht that jinxes were dead Until But how effective could it be? And why? ance and the contents of your pa-. · per. J. l\. Iv.tor~w. '85 ... ' · A llROKEN insulator-fungi in a pole- .l\._.!lust in central office apparatus-a huadrcd things might inte1fere with your telephone service. «.They rarely do interfere because of this Bell System pra.etice: Look for trouble before it hap-pens-don't let it happen. «. Preven• tive m.aintenancekeeps the System always ready to carry your voice wherever you wish-quickly, clearly, at low cost. Why not call home tonight? Rates to most points are 'lowest an;y tirBe after 7 P.M. arul all da;y Sunday. Dutc1 Choict Buffa Year's R< Contes1 Is Large~ Clinton t Stud~ Wil (Coni mer and i the offens years of been rele1 of the I Coach Wi which is spectatou to the gc otonous g men, will playing, ! continue ing and give its t• The G: tice scri1 men on a tBIW su man a.n some ne the scori so sadly Against by dint< was the ever, pi: the enru Urst tir rumor t all of t talte a place of surprisil ball-carl The ~ sentiall~ up the hoped t Sleepy start a· scholas1 a joy game, ~ k[e ])OS' Mulcare the gm at cenl be Har meyer will be In lc and n tistics, Union fense l ed al:>o hpwev• for he vented ovei· : rivials Ta.k tistlcs the ye wet fi dition \Let's EdJ day, l too g that aheac C!ln.tc a se chun: of tt back th.rm the l once line. disru otic gam• ed d Tl rea.s alwf We due yea1 one a j the just to I diff ing .pre au fa.n tea I 'Lli L'j: u; ( R< R~ Rl Ql Ll B.: Fl

~l ce South he head- women, ~ght him .:rk, shiv- , conven- es of the rmulated of blind ;; of last elts, one ~al unat- now, we e a tech- potential efore the ould sug- hots, per- .ny Good\ ' (for de- ability), ·size, and of an old 'l.te pink cd anum- rnight be ek: Stu- > Revive .ite a sur- .tle affair .ttee took ~tle scalp- 1:\ of this Council. Lt it was LDJ.an that color and . even the to boast l'he fresh about the mt to re- it out on but yet >Ver, they loudly of as fresh- -Jab!e. THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 12, l!.t31 Page Thl'.'ee Forty-Fifth Annual Hamilton Gamer Ends Grid Season Du~chmen Even Hawkes, Santoro Prime for L C. 4A; Betas Win. Football Choice to Outscore Harriers Ou:trun Colgate by 24 31 Field Meet Easiily BuffandBlue'I'eam · -$>--~· -~·--- INTRA.M:lJEAo.L STANDINGS I Group Points I· Phi Gamma DeJ.ta . . . . . . . . . 241.074 . Phi Delta Thoeta .... , ..... 217.795 1..!:;============;;;!.1 I NT:RAi\o!URALS Psi Upsilon .. ,. : .. ......... 215.834 Year's Records Point to Close Contest; Hamilton's Field Is Natural Asset Large Turnout Expected Clinton to Be Mecca fer Union Students; College Band Will Make the Ttip (Continued from Page 1) The Union varsity c:J:·oss-country team climaxed its 1937 season em Wednesday defeating the Colgate squad 24-31 for its fourth ·consecu- tive victory of the ye~:u. The only. defeats the harriers sl.Iffered came at the start of the sclledule from Vermont and WU!iams. Captain Bill Hawkes and Paul Santoro, having discbar-ged their regular duties with the hill-and- dalers for the seaso:n, are now training for the I. C. 4A.. rneet in New York City next Ne>nday. Bill Ketz has ta:lten Bill Hawkes to the intet·collegiate meet for the last two years; Santoro was entered in the · freshman meet last yea.r. ln 1935 Hawkes placed 86th and in 1936 he finished in 42nd position in the · exhausting race. Despite the fact that the I. C. 4A. v.>ill draw a roster of the cream of the country's crop of the cross-countr-y 1 unners, Hawkes and Santoro bope to better their previous showin.gs this year. Santoro, running in tile yearling competition last year, finished 39th . Winnm·s Place in Four Events To :Pile Up 22 Points ; Chi Psis Second Kappa SigiUa .. .. . .. • .. .. . . 2(}9.&13 Sigma Phi • . • .. .. . .. .. .. . . . 186.260 Sigma Chi . . • .. .. . .. .. .. .. . 180;810 Beta Theta Pi . . . . . . . . . . . . . 180:555 Chi Psi ..... - .. .. • .. . .. .. . . !80.105 Kappa Alpha .............. 178.319 Kappa Nu .. _ .............. 167.939 . Delta Upsilon. ............. 157.927 Phi Sig!Dll; Boelta ........•. 151.918 Alpha Delta Phi . . . . . . . . . . . 138.383 North College . . . . . . . . . . . . . 137.50(} Lambda Chi ..Alpha ........ 112.222 Delta Phi .. .. . .. .. . .. . . . . . 90.908 Phi Sigma K.appa. . . . . . . . . . 72.222 Delta Chi . .. .. . .. .. . . .. . . . . 61.111 South Colltege . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53.111 ·Theta Delta Chi . . . . . . . . . . 50.000 ---()---- The am::mal football field meet, which was held Wednesday ou Alex:ander ·Field, was won by the Beta Theta Pi Fraternity with ·22 points. .Se,cond place was won by Chi Psi and third was taken b> Phi De~ta. Theta. The victm·y for ·the Betas was largely due to the efforts of Bill Derriclt who scored 16 points with two ties for first place, a itie for second and a ue Basketl>aUCandidates 'for tl:!.irdc H ld D ·1 S · A.n unusual amount of interest . 0 . . aJ y essions was taken in the meet. This iE .shown b::y the fact that 1:59 stu- With the opening of the basket- dents took .part. Of this num.be1 ball season <:>n1y a month distant, 2.1 took places. Sigma Chi and Ph . Coach \Nels\ Nitclunan is in tensi- .Sigma Doelta each entered the 1~ fying his a:fternoon practice ses- men. 'l'he results: sion.s in the Alumni Gymnasium Foul Th·rowing Toumey The rules for the Foul Throwln.g contest are .in your respective in- tramural boxes in the gymnasium. Every .student in college is elig-i- ble to participate. Contestants may attempt their troee throws any tim.e between 10:30 a. m. and 1:30 ]>. rn. during the week. Fall Tennis Weathev permitting, the quarter- final round of the Fall Tennis tournamEJnt must be completed. not · later than Monday, November 15th. The final round of the fall tennis tournament must be complted on or .before Tuesday, November 16. Basketi:Jall \f()urnam ell t Entries for the Intramural Basketball 'f()Ul'nament must be in the intramural box not later than Saturda;y noon, November 13th. mer and Sulli.van, backs, will lead the offense, both having seen thr·ee years of .service and both havJ.ng been relegated to bear the brunt of the ball lugging th1s year. Coach Winters employs an ouense whioh is he:l.It-wanning to the spectato1s. Union supporters, used to the good, but somewhat mon- otonous ground-play or the Dutch- men, will see plenty of wide-open playing, as Hamilton is certain to continue its policy of 1ateral pass- ing and long aerial plays which give its team the c<Jlor it possesses. Captain Hawkes was banded his only defeat of the season Wednes- day by Captain Hanc()clt of Col- · gate and spoiled his hitherto .per- ---=;;;;;;;;;;;;;;=;;;;;===--;;; Puntin~ For Distance, <total of with his' l'i man squad. Coach three kicks)-First, Stewart, Chi Nitchrnan has ·been stressing fund- Psi, 153 Yards; second, Day, Phi amentals, e-s~ecially passing, de- Delta, 144 yards; third, Paul, N'. C., fensive ma..nuevers, cutting, and New Plays The Garnet, after a final prac- tice scrimmage against the tresh- men on Vv ednesaay may also pull a terw surprises, for coaches Nitch- man and Nelson have ev(}lved some new plays which may add the scoring punch which has been so sadly l;a.crung in several games. Against the frosh, l:lalnlnerstrom, by dint of his passing and running, was the principal peuormer. l::Low- ever, plays involvmg Adams and the ends also were sprung for the !irst time, giving ground to the rumor that the bac.lts will not do all of the lugging. Satnmy is to talte a. turn at calling signals in place of the reliable Amazon, who, surprising enough, will be given ball-carrying opportunities. The starting eleven will be es- sentially the one which has built up the fine record a.nd which is hoped to turn the tide tomorrow. Sleepy Lewis and Bill Busino will start at · ends; Bill Ladue, whose scholastic reinstatement has been a joy ever since the Williams game, will be at his familiar tac- ltle post along with Van Ladd; Jim Mulcare and Sumpty Irish will be the guards; Stubby A.dams will be at center. The backs again will be Hammerstrom, Amazon, Brock- meyer and Thomas. On reserve will be Dennett and Patrie. Game A Tossup feet record. This pe:rsonal defeat was not unanticipated., however, for Hancock did ·Considerably better in the I. C. 4A. meet last year than Hawkes arLd in this race set a Maroon record, .covering the course in 24:33 minutes. In third place ran Becker of Colgate, after the Union captain. Ii'ive Garnet harriers followed in· swift succes- sion. Frank Melewjcz;., turing In his best performance oi' the season, took fourth place -with Wells, fifth; Johnson, sixth; Sheffer, seventh;· and Hoffman, eighth- Paul Santoro, who was bothered with stomach troubl-e :for the first time this year, managed to take tenth place. Summaries: Hancock (C) . .. . .. • 24:33 Hawkes <U> .......•....... 25:58.2 Becker (C) ........ _, ...... 26:33 Melewicz <U> . .. . .. .. . .. . .. 26:35 Wells <Ul ................... 26.48 Johnson (U) .............. 27:32 Sheffer (U) ................ 27:47 Hoffman <Ul . . . . . . .. . . . . . . 28:11 DuBois (C) ................ 28:18 Santoro <U> ......... - . . ... . 28:23 Muehun (C) ................ 29:25 Koehler (C) ............... 32:00 Union Union Un.ion Union Union Union Union SEASON'S n..:ECORDS Union Opponents ....... 3 Colby ......... 6 .. . .. . . 9 Ro:Jbart .. .. .. . 0 ....... 10 Swarthmore .. . 7 ...... _17 V-ermont ...... 6 ....... 6 R-. P. I ........ 6 ....... 0 Williams ...... 6 ......• 13 R.ocbester . . . . 0 WILLIAM H. HAWiillS Delegate Terrace Council To Run :Block 'U' Dinner 141 yards; fourth, Cohen, Kappa shooting. He also has added some Nu, 138 yards; fifth, Keough, Chi new plays t<> the team's repertoire. Psi, 134 :yards. The un.eJC.:pected loss of ex-cap- Place Kicking For Goals, <·five tain Teddy P'odbielslti t() the five tries)-'Cied for first, Kelly, Kappa, has not haotpered the squads pro- Sigma, '1; Derrick, Betta Theta Pi, gress to .a.ny appreciable exctent. 4; Chap~ell, Beta Theta Pi, 4; tied Lou Carr-, vrtl.o has ste!)ped into a The Terrace Council, senior for f()ur\h, Mills, N. C., 3; 1\/Ic position on the tentative first team honorary society, has been dele- Kenzie, Phi Gamma, 3; Reinhardt, ·of Joh.nny Schultz, Captain Grant gated by the Student Council to 3. orfouf crnfwy shrd shrdl Smith, Dave Miller, and George make the arrangements for the Sigma Chi, 3; Murphy, Chi Psi, 3. Doyle has shown up well In the Block \U\ Dinner, which is given in Passing For Distance (total of few scrir:xunage sessions that have honor of Union's athletes and at three)-First, Kelly, Kappa .Sigma, occurred. 'The other four men are which all athletic awards are made, 143 yards; Derrick, Beta Theta Pi, veter-ans from last year's team, according to an announcement by 143 yal!ds; third, Cammaclt, Psi while Ca.rr gained his numerals on William H. Hawkes, chairman of Upsilon. 139 yards; fourth, Under- one of the ·best .freshman quintets the society. The affair usually held wood, Psi Upsilon, 138 yards; fifth, ever turne'<l out at Union. in the middle of March has been Feldrna.n, Phi Gamma Delta, 137 planned in the past few years by yards. Charlie Wiberly and Frankie a special committee appointed by PuntLng For Accuracy-First, Myers are the only other veterans the Student Council. Previously, Parry, ::Lamba Chi Alpha, 12 yards; from last year's varsity five. These however, tt was managed by the second, Twining, Chi Psi, 14 yards; men are working with LaRue Terrace Council. tied for third, Derrick, Beta 'l'heta Buchanan, Hudson Tanner, and Coincident with this announce- Pi, ande Richards, Kappa Alplla, 14 George 1\t.[illei' on the second team. ment came the report that George yards; :flftb, Enzer, S. C., 21 yards. Herb Watson, who h.as a bad an- Daley, '92, sports editor of the New Place Kicking For Distance kle, will also probably see plenty York fferald-Tribune and original (Total of three tries)--First, Day, of action t:his season, which opens sponsor of the annual dinners, has Phi Delta Theta, 147 yards; second, with St. J.B,wrence on December suggested that the date of the Reinha:.rdt, Sigma Chi, 137 yards; 15. The other members of the banquet be moved up from March third, JJerriclt, Beta Theta 'Fi, 28 squad a:r:e Lenny Schultz, \Moose\ to the spring college weekend in yards; Fiuk, Delta Upsibn, 28 Shaw, :Merlin Fay, Joe .Annese, May in order to bolster the attend- yards; fifth, Miller, Psi Upsilou, 24 \Swed~e\ Hanson, and \Red\ ance through alumni support. yards. O'Brien. Any of these men may ------------------------------- break into the first ten. FOOTBALL FIELD M:lEET-1937 Beta Theta Pi ....... . Chi Psi ............... . Phi Delta Theta ....... . Psi Upsilon ........... . Points Sco1·ed 22\2 9% 9 6 Entrance Additional Men I'oints Points EMPIRE PLAYERS Present ''CRIMINAL AT LARGE .. A Scotland Yard Mystery Thriller by EDG-'R WALLACE 3 DAYS ONLY: Thursday, Friday and SatlJrday Matinee and Evening NOVEMBER II, 12 and 13 ERIE LEGIT! NATE THEA.TRE $pecrar Discount to l111ion College St11dents fl Fe~culty TICKETS (tax inc.): Nig11ts, at 8:30: 55c, .35~ and $1.10. Satur- day ll!latiaees, at 2:30: 5fic, 85c 85o seats for Olie; $1.10 seats for 85c. Please bring identlfiea-iion. In loolting over those unreliable and misleading figu.res, the sta- tistics, we find that Hamilton and Union are on a p;ar as far as of- fense. goes, each team havJ.ng scor- ed a))out fifty points. Defensively, howeover, the Garnet has the edge, for her goal-lin~ stands have pre- vented opponents from scoring over 30 points, while Hamilton's rivials have netted about 85. 31 Lambda Chi Alpha .... . Sigma Chi ............ .. 5 4% 4 3% 3 2'k 2 1%, 0 9 10 10 11 10 ~2 30.000 30.000 30.000 30.000 30.000 30.000 30.000 30.000 30.000 30.000 30.000 30.000 30.000 30.000 30.000 30.000 45.000 19.500 18.000 12.000 10.000 9.500 8.000 7.500 6.000 5.000 4.000 3.500 Total 75,000 49.000 48.000 42.000 40.000 39.500 38.000 37.500 35.000 35.000 34.000 33.500 30.000 30.000 30.000 30.000 The squ.ad will probably be aug- . mented next Monday with the ad- dition of :S::illy Thomas, Bill Bu- sino, an.d Sam Hammerstrom, who are now playing football. If in- juries a..nd lnelgibilities do not rear their u.gl:y heads and the squad progresses as rapidly as expected, Union sh.ouJd have another firs't class basl<:etba.ll team this season. Hamilton OpiJonents Hamilton .... 0 T'1•lnily ....... 25 Hamilton .... 14 Hobart ........ 19 Hamilton .... 0 Obe-rlin . . . . . . . 0 Hamilton •... 16 Rochester ..... 0 Hamilton .... 20 Swa~tbmore ... 13 Hamilton .... 7 Haverford · .... 26 Kappa Sigma ......... . North College ......... . Kappa Alpha ......... . Delta Upsilon ......... . Kappa Nu ............. . Phi Gamma Delta ..... . Alpha Delta Phi ...... . Delta Phi ............. . 0 8 8 7 10 8 8 8 8 Taking into account the sta- tistics, the attitudes of the schools, the years of rivalry, the customary w.et fie-ld at Harnilb;m, and. the con- ~tion of the two teams, we say, \Let's flip a coin\. 57 83 Phi Sigma Delta ...... . 0 0 12 6 2 3 3 2 .000 .000 .000 . 000 ---•0·--- Union-Hamilton Series Ern Fitz, at practice on Wednes- day, pr.odw~e(j. a choice bit that is too good to hold back. It seenlS that back in '31, Ha.m.ilton was ahead, as usual, . In the game at Clinton. The field, a.s usual, was a' sea of mud, snow and even chunks of ice. On the last play o1' the game, the Garnet quarter- back called! a pass. The ball sailed through the air, .came to rest in tile arms of a. Dutchman, who at once set off for the distant goal line. But, on the five-yard ~arker disaster iii the form of a chunk of ice caused his downfall, and the gll.me was over, time having elaps- ed during the. run . . . There seeins to be no earthly reason why Steuben Field should always be a jinx to Union teams. We rather think it is somewhat due to th~ stir it produces every year and to the fact that every- one seems to believe that there is a jinx. If the team could. take the field with the idea that it is just another ball game which had to be won, the outcome might be different. With a goodly gather- ing of supporters, giving the im- ·Pression that the rooters were not au foreign ones, the feeling of fiLmiliarity might do much for the team. 1890 1891 1892 1893 1894 1895 Vi!l6 1897 1902 1903 1904 1905 1907 1.908 1909 1911 1912 1913 1914 1915 1916 1917 1918 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923 1924 1925 1926 1927 1928 1929 Probable Liaeups:- 1930 1931 . . UNION HAMIL~ON 1932 J..E-<Lewis . , .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. S1sson 1933 L'f'-Ladue .....•...... , • Gardner 1934 LG-Irish . .. . .. . .. .. .. .. .. . Platt 1935 II ...............•... 10 .................. 5 ............. ,._,., 14 .................. 0 .................. 0 ................... 0 .................. 4 .................. 17 .................. 31 .......•... ·- ...•• 28 .......... ··- ..... 5 ............ - ..... 17 .......... .,_,. ... 6 .......... .,_ ..... 6 ............ _ ..... 0 .................. 19 .............. - ... 12 .................. 12 ............... - .. • 7 .................. 0 .................. 0 . ........ ... .. ... • 0 ......... ,._ ., .... 0 ......... ,._ ...... 2 ......... ,._ ...... 6 ......... ,._ ...... 3 .................. 7 .................. 6 .................. 9 .................. () .................. 0 •.••.••.•..•.. -.. • . 0 • . • • .• • . • •• •. • .• •• 6 .................. s • .. ... .. ... ... •.. .. 6 ........ ,._ ....... 7 .......... - ....... 0 .......... - ....... 0 ........ ,._ ....... 12 .......... -·· ..... 0 .................. 7 .................. () 272 Ganie Reeord C--A.dams . . . . . . . . • . . . . . Dwyer 1936 RG-Mulcare ...•.•...... Fancher RT-Ladd . . . .. . . . . .. . . . .. Bielby RE--Busino .... , . . . . . . . • . Remis QB-Amazon . . . .. . . . . . . . Towner LH-Thomas . . • . . . . . . . . . Master.\3 RH-Hanunerstrom .... , Sullivan FE-Brockmeyer .. , . . . . . Carmer Union ..........•........ ·· · · · · · Hamilton ............ , ........ . Tie Games •.•..••........•..... u 26 16 6 12 34 96 4 10 0 0 0 0 0 1S 0 0 11). 0 26 0 28 ()'\ . 0 0 0 7 0 21 14 62 0 36 6 6 25 . 6 0 7 0 19 6 18 Sigma Phi ......... , .. . South College ......... . 1 Phi Sigma Kappa ..... . 0 Neutrals ..•.... - ....... . 0 Old Gym Dorm ....... . 0 159 .000 .000 .000 .000 1.000 .000 .000 .000 2.000 .000 .000 .000 (j'ORDON OXFORDS can't shrink! Unlike many oxford shirts, onr A.rrow Gordon can't sl:ttink. It's Sanforized-Shrunk. You get a new shirt free if one evei: shrinks. Gor.d'on has. the Mitoga form-fit, too. And the best-looking, best-fitting collar in $2 -CAJiBmV}; the world-an Anow collar. ~ $11NW!UZED N.USBAUM'S 447-451 STATE STREET Pst ..• Pst ..• • First year men will do well to 1:ake a timely tip and stock up aplenty with button-down Gordo11 ox.ford shirts. They're designed expressly for c<illege men-and tailored to reflect casllal correctness-a campus classic for long wear and smart style. $2 Mitoga-tailored~to-fit Sa nforized-skrun.k ARROW SHIRTS and TIES

Page Four II MOTION II l'ROCTOR'S Alcatraz Island is surprisingly sleepy for a prison pictute. Possi- bly because John Litel doesn't look Uke anyone named \Gat\ Brady· we were rather apathetic to his attempts to mend his wicked ways. No! Come to think of it, the r·eal reason behind our disinterest must have been the a•ppearance of ·Gor- don ·Elliot as the stalwart hero. Gordon's l'Oies keep getting fatter as his performances grow crumbier; the Warner Brethers' wheos are crossed somewhere. Nice work, though, by Dick Purcell, Vladimir Sokoloff, GPorge E. Stone, and the triple-threat {act, look, sing> Arm Sheridan. The new:>reel appears for the first time under the title \RKO Pathe\ with a new corps of com- mentators, including David Ross, Sidney Walton and Andl'e Baruch · · all of the CBS announcing staff.: Vaude\·ille: Considering that this was the first five act shaw this season has turned up, we thin!{ there should have been a little more applause than we heard. Fot in·, stanc<', Evers and Dolons were let down pretty badly. And Valentine Vox, who has polished hb act con- siderably ,;ince he appeut·cd here last, se~nwd rather peeved at his rect>ption. Lat·ue and Barnett were a little better than Hollywood im- ports usually are and the Merry Macs struggled valiantly against the opposition of Carl and the lads. STATE We realize that punning is violin such cases, but we'll string along with Mrs. Fidler's ·best bow, Jimmy. He said that the New Deal satire in Ali Baba Goes to Town was marc tiresome than amusing; we agree. However, the Cantor voeal of \Laugh Your Way Through Life\ the general harem-scarum attitude, and the presence of people in general improved the picture. If you wait long enough you're likely to see Dangerously Yours. Cesat· Romer·o looks prapet·Iy re- pellent and Phyllis Brooks, late of the Broadway version of Stage Door, conducts a demanstt·ation of the value of stage experience. Last time we saw her she was pretty sad; now she's doing right well by the materials she has to work with. THE CONCORDIENSIS, ·FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 193'7 A, View of the ,union College of 'Tomorrow A future plan for the Union Col- lege Campus which featured a formally designed lay-out of build- ings and which would carry out Ramee's original plan has been em- bodied in an architect's model drawn up by McKim, Mead, and White of New York The model and plans for the campus layout which were drawn up in 1930 arc now in the office of Anthony de Hoadley, comptroller. has one of the moot beautiful campuses in the country, is inspired by the composition of the typical Roman Forum. \Here\, wrote Smith, \were all the elements, a rectangular· space, surrounded by masses of building; symmetrically disposed and decorated by colon- nades and arcades, while dominat- ing the main, axis, in the position ef the Temple of the typical forum, was in each plan the large domical lib ra1·y, the Pantheon in fact, the perfect expression of the circular plan.\ The plans not only call for a \The Union College group shows Not a view of the Campus front. the air, but a glance at the future, A photograph of a ntooel of the ()ollege as designed by ~lilm. Mead and White, official Union College arcWtects. NOTICES The third installment of tuition is due and should be paid at the Comptroller's Office on Monday, November 15. No bills are issued and it is requested that all students having payments due matte them. promptly as any made after the. above date will be subject to the usual fine for late payment. Attention Law Students: Mr. An-. drew V. Clements, Registrar of the Albany Law School, wiiJ speak to the seniors who are planning to en- ter the law profession. This will be a dinner meeting and will take CALENDAR Tonigllt Debate, Union vs. Middlebury at Middlebury, Vt. 7 p. m.-Amedcan C'hemical Society Dinner, Bale House. Spealter, Linus Pawling, Pro- fessor of Chemist·ry, Califor- nia Institute of Technology, \Resonance and M:olecula·r Structure.\ Saturday NO CLA:SSES 2:00 p. m.- Varsity FootbaJ.I, Union vs. Hamilton, .al Clin- ton. Sunday 11 :CO a m.-Sunday Service, Preacher, Rev. Leslie Glenn, .r:e~tor, Christ Chu~ch. Cam- bridge, Mass., M e roo r i a I l l:apel. 4 :CO ;:>. m.-Organ Recital, Dr. l~lr:1er A. Tidmar sh, ·M:emorial Chape:. Monday 4 :ao p. m.-Public .Speal{ing ._;lass, Old Chapel. 7:30 p. m.--Band Rehearsal, Trophy Room, Gymnasium. '&:00 p. m.- Dasketb1J.l Rules Uommittee M e e t i n g, Gym- nasium. Varsity ·C ross-C0un- try, I. C A. A A. A.., NE>\\' Ym k City. B·OO p m Sttll'es of the OpPrn. \To\ra,\ Old ChapPl Tuesda:r 10:00 a. m.--Dailey Assembly. Sneaker, Rockwood Jenkins, ex. '37, Superintendeat of the Schenectady Boys' Club, Me- morial Cha.pet. 4:30 p. m.--Hygiene Class, Old Chapel. 7:30 p.m.--Newman Club Meet- ing, Silliman Hall. Have You Visited The Rendezvous? Richa.-cl's Rendezva11s 110-112 So. Colle~e St. Near the Erie Theatre Ladies' Lounge U}ls'tairs Sorority Lasses Request .Dates With Minerva Men There will be dates a-plenty over the Thanksgiving week- end for anyone interested. The Kappa Epsilon Sorority is holding a state convention In Schenectady November 25, 26, and 27. During the course o.f the convention ther·e wHI be a se- !'i'es of three dances, a sport dance on November 25, at Hotel Van Curiel·, a semi-formal the next night at the Ten Eyck Hotel .in Albany, aml a Grand Ball at the Hotel Van Curler on the 27th. Students who would like to attend any of these dances are invited to tnake necessary ar- 1 angemen ts with Miss Betty Brownell, 902 Bedford Road, Schenectady <Phone 4-9535). There will be a meeting Sun- day night at 8 o'clock in the solar·ium of the Van Curler Ho- tel for those intereste<'! in se- curing dates for Ute dances. Aecording to the notice 1 e- ceived by The Concordiensis: \Here's your chance, fellows thpy'rt> coming from all over NPw York State\ MILK SO RICH YOU CAN WHIP THE CREAM Produced Under Strict Laboratory Control For Daily Service PHONE4-3121 General Ice Cream Corp. * • The powers behind the Mounte- banks throne have been rather silent of late on the foreign film front. For the p1·esent then, we've unhamessed our plugs and locked them up in the stable. {Aside to W. W. M.: We're willing to trot them out again on moment's notice. How about it?) J. M. change in the quadrangle of the its detail another set of influences college, but also for a plan of which makes it particulai·ly in- future buildings to be erected on teresting to architects. Many of you have been so long familiar with the land now constituting the col- your early buildings as to accept lege pasture. They would cause the probably without question their destruction of the old library and peculiar character. It has possibly the construction of a new one at never occured to you to wonder place at the Delta Upsllon House j~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;.;~~~;;~;;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ on Tuesday, November 16, at 6:20. p. m. Reservations can be made through the Placement Bureau. ----0--- AT THE PLAY By Robert H. Ferguson Criminal at Large-·by Edgar Wallace. Produced by the Empire Players at the Erie Theatre under the direction of Addison Pitt. Nov- ember 11-13. A mystet·y thriller from the pen of Ed~ar 'Nallace graces the boards at the Erie this week. Although rather slow moving at first, it is a play packed with suspense, drama, and thrllls. The location afCriminal at Large is an ancient English castle where a series of murders has brought three Scotland Yard men to in- vestigate. The castle is the habitat of a strange crew, including a domineering mother, an English playboy, his frightened fiancee, and two vulgar footmen. A chauffeur and the family doctor have been strangled to death. Suspicion is directed to the mother and two footmen who ap- parently are attempting to do the wealthy son aut of his fortune. Ifld- den doors, sudden screams. and all the paraphernalia of the typical mystery Utrlller entel'tain the audi- ence while the Scotland Yard men try to determine the murderer. In a surprise finish it is dis- closed that the son of the family, apparently a rather sissified play- boy, is in reality the murderer. The last of a thousand year old line of nobles, he is mad and his mother's suspicious actions have been made in an attempt to force his marriage to his fiancee and conceal his in- sanity so that the family line may continue. The Empire Players, headed by Wylie Adams and Donna Earl, this week turn in the best performance they have made so far. In contrast to Idiot's Delight all the cast knew their lines well and rendered com- petent performance. Robert Regent, cast in the role of the insane young nobleman, gives the fine performance in a major role for which your reviewer has been waiting. Previously cast in small parts (in which he did excellent work), Regent has the op~ port unity this week of proving what he can do in a major role. While far from a great play, or even a good play, Criminal at Large is e:xciting and good entertainment. What. more do any of us want? why in an ag~ when exterior walls the center of a building which of buildings were usually finished would occupy the present site of. in wood, brick or stone, these were Washburn Hall. finished in stucco. The wor!{ has The second installment of dormi- tory rent is due on November 15, also seconc: quarter dining hall fee. Bills have been issued covering these two payments. Hours for col- lection fees, November 15: 9:00 a. m. to 12:a(} D- m. 1:00 p, m. ot 4:45 p. m. Payments made a.Lter the above date are subject to the usual charge for late payments. GAZETTE PRESS Printing In 1·930 at the time the plan was about it also a peculiar refinement drawn up, the college felt that, in and restraint, which is somewhat order to provide for future can- alien to its time and locality. It structian and to avoid additions is interesting to observe that its which would be out of harmony flavor in this respect is probably with the architectural design of the a French importation. If you will college thus far, it would ask some recall some of the buildings of New York architects to draw up about this period in the environs and present a new program for of Paris, you will recognize at once future building. the relationship and if you will re- caU also the Greek influence in The General Engineering Build- French work of that time, you will ing and the new Chapel make it :find what seems to many of us, the impossible to carry out Ramee's . restraining and refining element original idea for the east end of the Underclass reporters: With this issue of The Concordiensis the members of the freshman journal-, ism class join the reportorial staff.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Positions are still open for an· ~ freshmen and sophomores in all depa1trnents of the paper. All in- tei·ested students are asked to re-· port to the editor any afternoon in quadrangle, unless of course these which we all feel in these early buildings are removed. What is buildings.\ Silliman Hall. more, Ramee's plan did not visu- 7;;;;;;;;;:;:;;:;;:;;:;;:;;:;;:;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;:;~ alize the increase in size of the col- 1- lege, necessitating the buildings lying east of Washburn Hall. This second and smaller quadrangle which has grown up can readily be developed on sound architectural lines, according to :McKim, Mead and White, but it would not tit into GUERRA PHARMACY DRUGS, PRESCRIPTIOIIIS SUNDRIES We serve sandwiches and light lunches. 600 Union St. cor. 'Barrett Phone 2-9419 the original setting; hence the ~~~§§§§§§§§;;;§§§§§55!5~§§§§§§§§§§~ architects have sought to pre- t serve the original spirit by closing the old quadrangle with a library building occupying the bank east of Washburn Hall and at the same time forming one side of this eastern quadrangle. The plan preserves a domical building such as Ranee used to cap his work, but it would not be separated as in his plan. The plan also necessitates the removal of the boiler house, which was a natural, evolution but entirely out of place . architecturally in its present cen- tral location. It also entails the r e- moval of Washburn Hall and the present library. The new Psi Upsilon house will coincide with this future plan of Union College, and is one of the new buildings to he constructed in ' harmony with the architects' draw- ' ing. According to James K. Smith. • architect far McKim, Mead, and ' White, in an article in the Alumni Monthly at the time of the pre- sentation of the model, Union Col- lege architecture, as well as that of the University of Virginia, which . ' AMERICAN A·l LAUNDRY The Most Perfect Laundry Work in the Capital District . Ph. 4·3166 1030 Barrett St. CLOVERLAND CREAMERY Phone 6·81 04 FOR PROMPT SERVICE THE CAMPUS BARIIER SHOP Basement of Silliman Hall 919 State St. A Special Service for Union Students .Anthony F. Barbieri Hours: 1:30-7:CO P. M. 1133 State St. Thr11 to tlott Terre~c:e PHONE 6·3456 Schenectady Engraving Co. 147 JAY ST. ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORD lEN SIS SMARTEST DINtfER CLUB IN THE CAPITAL DISTRICT DINNER MUSIC 6 to 8 Minimum Charg.e 50c: DINNER SER.VED EVENINGS 5-8 Week Days $1.00 Saturdays and Holidays Your Favorite Chef MAC WAY Formerly of The ANTLER'S CLUa Catering to Dinner Parties Banquets Clubs Prop. and Mgr. John F. Gibbons PHONE 6-9852 Discip Hai.J G·i\ 'Fresf z 511 ====--.<: Vol. LXI., ''Sw Will Faculty 1 Affa I Ti Jack Sm For 1( ing The lU} dances m the all-col arranged Novembe1 nasium. Accordi made put Yunich 1 '!: \A Sweet selected, even at t which h! will be \most e· year.\ The pr be officil mittee < height ol With t provide · the dane continue have air include Bennett, Bronner Coffin, l mins, D and Mr and Mr and Mr Mrs. An Charles Mrs. Pe Ticke sold fo Noveml raised chased nity SOl John Merrirr Kyle, Delta Upsilor Nu; Il Louis 1 Liffito: O'Brie Amazo Young Steven Sigma Delta Moore zer, E bieri, Phi I Upsilc Delta Tu Re_ By Ne accm smal activ men day· furic of I inS mat~ hav< how Bot! Chal to s sian F: rec< at Uni a. r nou unt tho the gre an< iltc inq we blc be• du W< ev• th m: Tl ~~-~

~equest mMen a-plenty 5 week- ted. Sorority mtion In 25, 26, se O·f the be a se- a sport at Hotel ·mal the 'n Eyck a Grand 1 Curler like to nces are sary ar- s Betty l Road, ,9535). ing Sun- ' in the ~rler Ho- t\ in se- dances. tice te- liensis: fellows all over H iiP 1 r ontrol rice !I 1 Corp. rRICT es \!I gr. INE 152 Discipl·ina ry Haircut G·iven 'Freshman z 511 Swee+heart Of Ball To Be Chosen Vol. LXI., No. 16 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 16,1937 PRICE FIVE CENTS \Sweetheart of the Ball'' Will be Chosen at the Dance· Faculty Group a.t All .. College Affair to Pick: Most B~autiful Girl Tickets ~n Sale Jack Smith to Provide Music For 10 to 2 o'Cbck Danc- ing in Alumn.i Gym ~·----~~--~------------- Idol forThanksgiving Out This Week-end Monday, N()v . 15-The Thanks- giving issue of 'The Idol, quattetly .campus magazine, wiH appear on the campus Saturday afternoon, Edson V. S. Draper, editor-in-chief, announced today. Concerning the appearance of the 'magazine itself, Dvaper said only that it would contain stories, arti- , cles, poems, and cartoons, with fac- ulty members as well a.s students The luxuriant p€t iod of college 'on the list of contributors. dances may 1 etun• to Union with· The Idol -w.ill be delivered this the all-coHege danae which is being year to all frat.et·nities; copies fot at ranged for Thanksgi~ing Eve, neutrals will be left in Silliman November 24, in the Alumni gym- Hall. nasium. ---0--- According to soz:ne ·of the plans M t ·b k p• k made public yesterday by David L. . OUll' e: an s IC Yunich, '39, in charge of the dance, y ' R t o \A Sweetheart of the Ball\ will be ear S . eper Olfe selected, and a number of. novelties, Webb A1r:nounces Libr6ry To Be Open Sunday Nights The college library will be kept open on Sunday nights from 7 to 9 o'clock during a trial period of several weeks, Belmar Web))., •college librarian announced tonight. This experiment wiU .be made in an effor't to detet·mine whether use of the library by- students dUt·ing these hours wanants the expense of keep- ing the library open and if a large enuugn number of st.u- dents u~e the libtary on Sunda~· nights a permanent change in the schedule of the library will probably be rnade. Visiting Lecturer To Discuss Soviet Harrison Bro\Vn Has Tmveled. Widely; Is Popular Eng- lish News Commentator even at the climax·ing Junior Prom, --- Harrison Br-own, popular English which have never been presented \The Criminal Code\ and lecturer and news commentator, will be on the Pt'r.gram for the will make his first appearance on \most entertainhtg night of the \Under the Gas Light\ to t'he Union campus when he lectures year.\ Follow ~·No More Peace\ on \The Soviet Union\ .in the Old The px·ettiest girl C>n the floor will 2hapel tomOI'row night at 8 o'clock. be officially \crowned\ by a com- --- o'clock. mittee of faculty judges at the The Mount-ebanks Theatre of: Mr. Brown, a visiting lectux:er at height of the dance. U c '11 • 26th Union from the Institute of Inter- With the music of Jack Smith to nion ollege wt open 1ts · P rovide the synco.nated atmosphere, subscription season with three per-· national EdtLcation, has had con- r fo1·m n es of Ernst Toller's satir siderable success in England and the dance will start at 10 p. m. and a c - ) ·cal c rncdy \No More Peace \ on the continnent as a commenta- continue until 2 a. m. Chaperons · 0 • ' Decem. \er 3 4 and 6 and will con tor on foreign affairs. Having have already been announced, and .w • • ' - include Dr. and Mrs. wm 1 ·am W. tinue its program with Martin traveled extensively in Germany, Fl · ' d ~a, \Th Cr!'mt'nal the Orient and in the Scandinavian Bennett, Dr. and Mrs. Frederick L. avm s l'a~. e Code\ in Mar'ch and conclude the countries, he is well qualified to Bronner, Dr. and !.£rs. Harriso.n C. ' i.th th' · old 'discuss the international situa- Coffin, Dr. and Mrs. Earl E. Curn- season w e uproarwus mins, Dr. Edwatd Elllery, President time Ame1ican melodrama, \Under tion. the G L 'ght\ for Jun'o · Protn Mr. Brown will also address daily and Mrs. Dixon R·uan Fox, Dean as 1 1 I • _, 'Th · t · 1 t b assembly on Thursday morning and Mrs. Charles F. F. Garis, Mr. e m e.ns 1 ve campa gn ° 0 · and will also addt,ess Professm and Mrs. RusseU A... Hall, Mr. and tain the Mountebanks \100 pa- Earl E. Cummins' class in Labor Mrs. Anthony Ho-adley, Dr. and Ml's. trons\-season su·bscribers-is un- Problems at 10:20 o'clock. After Charles N. Waldron, and Dr. and der way under the direction of Mrs. Peter I. Wold. the graduate manager. 'lunching with the Social Studies Division at Hale House, Mr. Brown Tickets for the dance are bei.ng The rehearsals for the Toller will attend a. roundtable with mem- S()ld for $1.50 unti.l noon Monday, play are entering the final state in bers of Pr()fessor Douglas Camp- November 22, when the price wlll be which the audience will see the bell's class at the President's 1aised to $2.00. 'l'hey may be pur- play as staged• by Edward L. Cat- House at 4 p, m. chased from the following frater- roll. An unusual design, especially On Friday Mr. Brown will meet nity social chair1:11en: adapted for the Mountebanks an English class at 10:20 and fol- John Wold, Alpha belta Phi; Alex stage, was made for the settings lowing luncheon at the D. U. House Merriman, Beta 'I'heta Pi; James by Erwin Stettner of New York. will meet the International Rela- Ky!e, Chi Psi; George Bernadt, This is the second time a New tion's Club at the Pt esident's Delta Chi; Robert Tiffany, . Delta York scenic artist has contributed House at 4 p. m. He will dine with Upsilon; Ellis ELsenstein, Kappa a stage setting to the Mounte- members of Alpha Delta Phi and Nu; Robert Clark, Kappa Sigma; ··banks whi~h last year received will make his last appearance on Louis Carr, Lambda Chi Alpha; Don Howard Bay's setting for \Wintet·- Saturday morning to addTess stu- Liffiton, Phi Ilelta Theta; ~ay set.\ dents at tl~e 10 o'clock assembly. O'Brien, Phi Gam.ma Delta; Jacob The production staff is complet- 0 __ _ Amazon, Phi Sigll:la Delta; Robet t ing the car.pentry and other con- Young, Phi Sig:rna. Kappa; Douglas struction work for the sets this Stevenson, Psi Upsilon; AI Borden, week and they will be painted next Sigma Phi; Mason Hutchins, Theta· week. Delta Chi; Py:rat:nid Cl'L\b; Frank Tickets for the performances of Moore, North CoiJege; Hyman En- \No More Peace\ will go on sale, zer, South College; Anthony Bar- and students may begin to reserve bieri, Silliman Hall; Winterton Day, them (Jn tl:teir registration tickets, Phi Delta Theta; Dave Miller, Psi beginning :Monday, November 29, Upsilon; Tyler Dennett, AJpha at the College News Bureau Office Delta Phi; Dav·e Yunich, Kappa Nu. in Silliman Hall. Two Union Fr()sh Gain Fame Over Reputed Hamilton Bell Ringing By ROBERT C. WALTER, Jr. ~·------------------------- News tra vel.s :fast and fuTlously, ~oth socked the old gong fa1· up according to the old adage, a.nd a m. the belfry eves. Then Both small news items concerning the ~hmned up the belfry and cut the activities of a pair of Union fresh- rope. and both ran a~ a host~ o.~ men while visiting Hamilton Satur- Conllnentals gave futtle . pursmt. day traveled·so :fast and became so .f'>.s Dr. C. N. Waldron 1: a!leged furiously distort~d as to make one to have reported the mcrdent: of Dr. Larrabee's famed e::xamples \Four Hamilton men were in the in S. S. 10 seem 'like minor i·eague belfiy wh.en Bothwell and Clowe material. And if you, brave reader, [!.rrived. Undaunted, Clowe held the have heard a glorifi·ed version of ·four. men down while Bothw~ll how Charles Clowe and James calmly yanked the rope from 1ts Bothwell stopped the Hamilton moorings. With the. st~rdy hemp chapel bell in it:s victory t()!l, listen the two soon had thetr disconsolate to some very official academi·c ver- hosts bound securely to the bel- sions-and tb.en listen to tbe truth. fry beacms, Then both nonchalantly Frederic Wya.tt: \You know, the, returned to the dance to resume record for tolii:ng the chapel bell the evening's entertainment with- at Hamilton after a victory over out the disturbing noise to inter- Union is from 4:30 p. m. until 1:00 feT<e with their fun.\ a. m. Well, Saturday night the an- And as M'ilt Enzer might do it: nounced intention was to ring it \Charl~s Clowe and James B?th- until 2:00 a. m. During the e-vening well, }>otb '41, and both of ancient though, Cha:rlie and Both climbed Union fa.milies, happened to wan- the Hamilton 'belfry to watch the der Into the Hamilton chapel Sat- great feat. They acted very meek urday nigb.t while in the process and passed themselves off as Ham- of becoming \whole men\ in the ilton freshmen and Both timidly best small liberal arts college tra- inquired what ~ould happen if one diotion. 'I'here they engaged in an were to str'ike the bell a . mighty unfortunate scrimmage with sev- blow. 'l'he Hamiltonian who had ex•al Hamiltonians, of disreputable been entruste.d with the sacred appea:rance and obviously without duty assured him that the bell the benign influence of 140 odd would ·be car-ried far up in the years of fine old tradition beside eves. Shortly a-fterward Both asked the Mohawk vale, whom they easily the privilege of helpi.ng in the sUbdued. They were in the act of mighty ritJ,Utl })y- striking the :bell. removing the bell when they were The Hamilton boy stepped back, ovel'\v)!elmed by hosts of rowdy 11-nil Charlie ~l.\!!obbe!l blm _w)Ule. (Coptlnued on ;E>~;~.ge M Red Cross Drive Makes Fine Start Milton Enzer Reports First Day Collection 60% Better Than Last Y eal''s The Union College community is a splendid -example of personal participation in providing for the unfortunate, said Milton M:. Enzer last nigh~ in announcing the first teturns in the annual Red Cross roll call on the campus. The director of the News Bureau, in charge of college solicitation for the third consecutive year, pointed out that $43.60 had been collected in the ikst day's returns and that this was 61% better than last year and 75% better than in 1935 from the same groups. Sigma Phi, with Frank A. Frei- hofer, Jr., '38, as Roll Call Woxker, was the first student group to re- port 1()0% contributions. The $15.10 raised for the Red Cross is 200% better than 'last year. The Building and Grounds Staff, of which S u p e r i n t e n d e n t of Grounds Samuel H. Johnson is Roll Call Workers, was the first of the college staff to report, The $20 collected represents a SO%> increase over last year. Others who have already report- ed their' Red Cross collections are Hale House, Mrs. Cyrus Briggs, Roll Call Worker, $6.50;. and Silli- man Hall, Miss Helen Deines, Roll Call Worker, $2. While no definite \goal\ has been set this y-ear for the campus, Mr. Enzer said he hoped \we would at least raise as much as last year when $'264 was collected from staff and students.\ To the co-operation 'Of the Roll Call Workers, he said, ''belongs the credit .for the success o! the drive.'' The roll call worlters, in adition to· CContiuue!l 011- Fll,e;e 4) ==================~========~==~~==== Council Imposes First Official Haircut; RuleArouses VariedCommentonCampus --------~----------~---------------------~ FIRST OFFICIAL HAIRCUT Schulber g First Freshman Punished by Discipline Committee Majority Opposed Fox, 1Valdl'On, Bennett, Students Express Di- verging Opinions Monday, Nov. 15~-The first offi- cial hair-cutting supervised by the Student Council and the Sopho- :more Discipline Committee took place this afternoon when Robert Schulberg was shorn by Tony Bat bieri at 5:4~ p. m. in the cam- pus bax:ber shop. Schulberg was subjected to a short crew hair- cut because of his consistent fail- ure to wear ltis freshman dinlt. He is the first of five students who are expected to undergo similar pun- ishment fo1· non-<Jbservance of freshman t•ules. Robert Schuloorg is slLO\VD above in the 'hot seat' receiving the first official haircut for disobedient fre~hman. Paul Rieger, Richard Fitz Sim- mons, Gordon Gold and John Smyth are scheduled to meet a similar fate either- tomorrow or Wednesday. Dr. Fox's Statement \You have been courteous to ask. my opinion on the recent action of the student council on Freshman discipline; I com- ply with some hesitation as it seems to me that such ruatters fall within the student jurisdic- tion as represented in the Council and are not subject to official action or even influence unless they involve the reputa- tion of the College or their tendency runs conkaty to the general policy of the reeognized traditional spirit of the College. I cannot see that the present action violates such general policy or traditional spirit. It is very different from the mob violence which was under dis- cussion last year. As 1 under- stand it, no sentence is to be imposed without a full and fair trial, formal evidence being re- ceived and an opportunity given the accused to overset it with other evidence. I think we would all of us very much dis- like to see any emergence of Klu Klux Klan methods on our campus. As to the propriety of the penalty, the punitive haircut, much depends upon its degree. If l may go into detail without seeming absurdly pedantic, I should think that a complete trimming of the l1ead or of half the head would attract too much attention off the campus. 1t would place the culprit at (Continued on Page 4) Delta Phi Will Send Six To Founde1·'s Day Dinner Six representatives of the Alpha Chapter of Union College, Delta Phi fraternity, \Viii attend the Founders' Day Dinner on Wednes- day, November 17, at the Yale Club in New York City. 'This dinner will commemoxate the !10th anniver- sary of the founding of Delta Phi at Union College. Delta Phi is the third oldest na- tional fraternity and is the third of the original \Union Triad\ which consists of Kappa Alpha, Sigma Phi and Delta Phi. Ellis Carter, George Doyle, Rob- ert Imrie and Langdon Wagner of the class of '38, 'l'hornas Burlte '39. and Everett Hafner '40, will repre~ sent the Alpha Chapter at the din- ner. ---o·---- Outing Club Group Visits Vassar Cabin at Phoenicia Last week another chapter was' written into the record of activities. of the Union College Outing Club when a group visited the Vassar Outing Club cabin, \Bracken-· Burn,\ at Phoenicia, N, Y. Despite the rain which fell all day, both groups took a hike Sat- urday afternoon. In the evening a square dance was held with music supplied by three harmonicas .played by Jack Bergstrom and Bob North, of the local gr.oup, and Jane Hoo;per ot Vassa.r, Dr. Waldron's Statement Dr. Waldron said: \I am op- ·posed to .hair-cutting, paddling, or similar forms of violence as a means of student discipline. I admit it is difficult to sug- gest a substitute that sounds practical. On the other hand, 1 have never known violence to accomplish the desiled end. I believe the attitude we want comes from good will, growing out of reasonable regulations which are explained and sup- ported ·by example. The fra- tet·nities, through their fresh- men, could do this and then this group would provide a leaven for the whole freshman class. Public opinion is a pow- erful weapon in making indi- viduals conform, and if this important .group of classmates frowned upon offenders I sus- pect it would accomplish more than violence. Conspicuous and blatant offenders might be re- fened to the Dean who would point out that the College does not wish men on our campus \Vllo are in opposition to rea- sonable rules and regulations. I feel, too, that class organ- ization which is now non-exist- ent would help by creating a alass solidarity and a sense of responsibility. My experience is that a group of freshmen of- acers talking to offenders can do more to get them in the de- sired frame of mind than a sophomore discipline commit- tee using force.\ Schenectady Symphony To Open Seas~>n Tonight 'The Schenectady Symphony will open its cunent season at the Mont Pleasant High School tonight. Stu- dent tickets at the reduced price of one dollar for three concerts are available at the box office. At 7:30 o'clock, preceding the aoncert, a talk will be given ·by Douglas Bailey, graduate of the Julliard School of Music and mem- ber for seven years of the musical staff of the Metropolitan Opera Company. He will discuss the mu- sic to be played later in the eve- ning. The concert proper begins at 8:30. The program will be as follows: Meanwhile, opinions of the ad- ministration. seem to be at odds over the hair-cutting ruling which was sancti(Jned by the Student Council. Fox: Approves President Dixon Ryan Fox, in a personal statement, expressed his approval of the action of the Stu- dent Council, while Dr. C. N. Wald- ron emphatically disapproved of the hair cutting proposal. He was backed in his opinion by Dr. W. W. Bennett, Co-o1·dinato1' of Student Activities wb.o deplored its \fresh water\ tendencies. Fredel'ic A. Wyatt, assistant to the secretary, also expressed his disapproval of the Student Council's strategy. Dean Garis said he had no statement to make. Winlexton U. Day, president of the Student Council, in a letter to The Concordlensls, backed the ac- tion of tlte Student Council, de- claring that the mild enforcement of the rules would accomplish a good pur-pose in maintaining a custom that would help freshmen recognize each other and thus further class unity. Against Haircuts Dr. W. W. Bennett, Student Co· ordinator said: \The recent action by the Student Council puts the Union student body right up in the front rank with such institutions of higher learning as the Los Angeles Junior College and Oklahoma Baptist University. It is evidence of a de- cided \fresh water\ atmosphere that has lingered on our camplli! somewhat longer than our academic standing- can justify.\ \It is my conviction that if we are going to have freshman rules, they s:ho·uld be o-beyed. I dO< not ap- prove of haircuts for those who do not obey fresh rules an:d feel that some otJ:ter solution to the problem can be fo-un·d\ said Frederick A. Wy.att, assistant to the Secretary. In a random sample of student opinion, four of the upperclass- men consulted favored the action of the Council and four con- demned. it. \I believe that there are no tra- ditions, colol'ful or otherwise, wortlly of being kept u:p which in- volve the disciplining of freshmen by for~e. All ft>eshman rules ex· cept the most useful were abolish- ed last year. If the freshmen can· not keep the few remaining, they are only- hurting themselves and it is n<Jt up to the res+ t'\' the stu- dent b()dy to act as whip-crackers.\ Prelude to Khovancbtchina . . . • . Carl Trahman '38. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . Moussorgslty Leslie Paffrath, '39, president of the college \Y\ said \This is the Symphony No. II in D major · · · · g-d-est revival I ever heard of. ....................... Beethoven ·The proposal is preposterous.\ Suite for Stl'ing Orchestra •..... ...... ~ .............. Otto Luening Soprano Solos .• Miss Jane Lauder \Come Ever Smiling Liberty;, ...................... Handel \Songs of the Three Queens\ ................... Saminslty Ballet M.usic from \Rosa.munde\ •.••...••..••.•. , •.•.•. , Schubert Peter Owen.s '39 said \rf Fresh- man !'11les cannot be enforced with· out tu.rn.ing to the sow-college haz- ing metllod of cuttil1g hair, 1 be· lieve that these rules should be a.bo lisbed,'' Herbert Fox '39 said: \It is im- material th1:1:t the method employed is different from that of last year. Organized rowdyism is no more. hu- I'lla.Jle than Its unofficial co11nter- p!i.rt. If Freshman rules are to be (Continued on J?age 4)

Page'Twc. THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1937 ,. (JJJlUfJ) ~irnsis racket, inflicted on the American people by. II '] : I selfish politicians. A billion dollars a year j u s t I·. ·n J e s t . 'I~ M 0 T I 0 H I unnecessarily added to the cost of runnin.;: · ' . . . 0 . the biggest business in the wol'ld-The Gov- ''-;;;;=======================:=!! - · , Diligent thumbing throug·h our ernment.\ s · s To whom l t may concern-Just lad~ and then there is the dog's-eared copy of .... etder's ym- FOUNI>ED 1S77 \A Causa Persa Parolt Assai\ This quotation from \The Pamphleteer\ in Jest was not written last week Skidmore gal, Helen 'Zeit by name. posium of Slick Superlatives for issued by the National Civil Service Reform because its author was out :(·of who has '11-IHEE Union men defin- 3ly Sycophants, Sentimental Cine- town> the greater part of the .prev- itely ga-ga. ..naniacs and Tit·ed Retired Busi- League this week, is part •of an active, (and ious week-end. Any rumor to the TID-BITS .. , scoop, \Scoop- -the ness men,\ has failed to rout out . 1 contrary is false and malicious E b b '11 b !I d necessan y name-callin2:) campaiQn bv the d d b · 1 1 new nzer 30 Y wt · e ca e J.nythin.r wol'thy of application tu _ ~ > propagan a spt·ea y nva co umn-. Michael , .. well, no one can accuse, - League to correct an important evil of our ists in an attempt to embanass the Milt of not doing his shate · .3tage Doo1•. An adaptation and im- author of Just in Jest. t f th · f · · civil service system. missing Bailey Hall m·namen : ,>rovement o a ra er m ertor ilt- 1937 Membff 1938 J:\ssodoled Cdee>iate Press (signed) W. W. M. Manheim's mou«tache one tie invisceration of aspiring young Dtstributor of Collee>[ale Die>est What concern this may have for coHege • • • freshman, Bob Cotby, has his pic- A :!)ew weeks ago you might re- 'ture in the ft·eshman handbook .A.ctress.es by Kaufmann and Fer- students and more specifically for Union Col- member reading our poem dedi- twice-once under his own name· ber, this is our idea of a seasona1 lege men is rather obvious. cated to the many Union lads who and then again .under another lad's treat. \V I Ch l L C I . gave their all (and we mean ALL> ... one reason so many fellows are Stage Doot• .is the story C>f the REPRESENTED f'OR NhTIONAL ADVE11T1SING BY NationaiAdvertisingService, Inc. ColJego P1sbfislsers Ropf'eStrtJtatit·a 420 MADISON A.VE. NEW YORK, N.Y. CttlC~GO ~ BOSTOII • l.:OS AIIGELES • SA!i fRAfUISCO The official newspaper of the stu<len ts uf Union College. Published 'Puesday nn•l Fridays thrnugh- Oll.t the college year, t\X:cept duriug Christmas and , 1en ar es . an1pbel , civil Sel'V!Ce to Skidmo 1 :e gals only to be re- having trouble with their Account-· western wheat heiress, fres1J. from examiner of this state spoke her.e a few placed on All-College week-end' by mg is the existence in the class ot Bryn Mawr tor maybe Skyd Mawr) Dartmouth g\lys. Well, the piece that chem department blonde .. · . .vho moves in on the inhabitants of weeks ,1Jack criticizing· the pt•eference veter- was published in the Skidmore pa- scoop, scoop-&:d Carroll's Play-pro-· the Footlights ·Club, . a theatrical ans re-ceived in these \unpolitical\ appoint- per and upon its appearance some duction class wm present .fat· theil :boarding house for wornen, with lassies in North Hall got together . next offering ··waiting for Lefty\- :the avowed intention of acquiring Spring reL•t.>Bses. ---~- -------- Publication Office, The Gnz~tte Press, 334 State St., Sr·het:eclauy, !'.: Y .• T\l'·phone 4-H41 ments, he was looking- out for the welfare(){' 1nd wt·ote an answer. Here 'tis ... :a swell'egant show; don't miss it atmosphet'e. There she meets a America's youth~without the hig:hflown You gave me quite all your .. and incidentally, a couple ot' ~arefree :young miss with a fac- - time, weeks q.go Ed was rehearsing and! ulty for repartee that woul-d malce Enterell nt the Sdu.!Ue<.'tadv Post Offit.:e a::; Sec'ollll ClRS:> Mail\ ~1atter Subscription price I•'i w c·e11ts a <'OPY: $3-:DO;~,~<>ar: delivered anywhel'e 1n the l'ni tNt State~. language. Here is a personal problem for all You gave me Union's longest directing four plays ... laugh ot Dorothy Parker turn beryl' with 1 • tl t . tl tt k' line, the yeat: Johnnie March's .Jendi- tyronism, a Shakespearian trouper 0 US la lS WOl' l a ac mg. You gave rne invitations too t~on ?f •·Faithless Ne~y Gray\ .... .>f another generation, a producet's Editorial Huoms, Silliman Hull, Union College Camtm~. Teh•phune, SdLt:neetady, 4 __ -.:..:01;.:3.:..:3. __ Senior Board Hyman A. Enzer ............... Editor-In-Chief 11 S. S. Suuth College~6·9728 Robert H. Ferguson .......... Managing Editor THE DOCTORS' DILEMNAS And more than that I went with Elmpue Players defmltely closed mistress, and a .pennHess little ye>u. Satu1 day-too bad, Schenectadj' 1 ctress whose heart is set on a role You gave me flowers and a jus~ wou.ld n()t tespond .. : Heler. in a play called \Enchanted room Demes dt~ ~hat very attracttve pas- April.\ Fate and Edna Ferber de- Romantic stars and such a ter adver.Usmg the Nov. 24th. dance cree tnat the wheat baron father moon. . .. Guy Graves came ·~ack from 3hould choose to back that vety You gave me drinks-you got Harvard last week-end wtth a blare play, with his daughter in the quit~ tight, of tl'Un;pets ... Dc;mg Murphy ~herished role. Things straighten l'si Upsilon House~ -·i-8710 .J'ulius J. Bnndgus ................ News Editor 9 S. S. Suutl1 Cullt.·g~- -6~~17!!8 Henry D. Hartmann .......... Feature Editor 7 U. \1. I >.~6 ~6cU Carl R. Trahman .. , ............. Sports Editor Kappa 81g1 na How-.e-- -t-~325 John H. Gilmour ............ Business Manager Delta Up~Hu11 lluU~l--4-7;122 JYa.rvin M. Miller .. Asse>ciate Business Manager 1\:apJia :-:u-4·7331 .Alfred R. Seigle ........... Circulation Manager Kap1oa. ;..;u-4·7:>31 And then. no less, you passed drove hts car 700 mtles over tt;e themselves .out, as things have a from sight. week-end . . . wonder .how Chns :1abit of doing. I might have recompens~d you, Cammaclc gets ~ny studying dc;me A good example of Gregory La dear, what wtth watchmg the new PSI L .:::ava's shrewd direction is thP first If you had been around to hear. house, go up~·never mind, Chris, Jcene in which he creates an il- The Dartmouth guy can take it, we're _just jealous, that's all . . . . lusio~ of reality by the conveni- see ?· Questwns ot tJ1e weelt: what Umon· mt device of having everyone talk At least HI! he walks home with ; ·~e stole the twent.y-pound turke> .A.t once. The sct·een play by !>lor- me! . :rom the .club Pettte eal'ly Sattu· . ie Ryskind and Anthony Vetller * * * day mornmg'? ... what guy went Nill probably steam in with the to New Haven last weelt-end on Academy Award. · The need for an infirmary which has been long t·ecognized by the college and which ha.s t·emained unfulfilled because of financial in- · ability, has in part been answered by the faithful and competent service of Drs. Clowe and O'Rourke. Union may be lacking in physical facilities for taking care of sick stu- LOVE DEPARTMENT ... <you dents, but thet•e is no doubt that with the love 'em-we tell 'em) ... now that means provided, th.e docFors are helping· to football is over Ray Lewis and Jim Mulcare can talce care of more iin- fourteen cenls? ... Bob Tiffany's Kate Hepburn tmns in her best <.1::-te for party we.ek-end thanker, '>erformance since Morning Glory, h~m for a good time by sendinl md yet is deftly shoved in to the htm a one-~ent po,;tal. card on thE !Jackground by Ginger Rogers ar1d bac~ of whtch was wntlPn the fol· 1\ndrea Leeds. The Rogers' deliv- Jwl.im• Board AS::iUCIATE: J•:I>ITcillS :Herbert 0. Fox ltobert A. Sanf solve a problem which the college cannot as portant things-Mulcare is sweatin' over Leonore Hurth and Lewis is yet settle itself. getting that way over Jitsie Hitch- lowmg: ary of staccato flippancies is mar- Frederick \V. Heque1n!Jourg Jerome Smith ll. Wyman Hitchco<'i< Edward C. Hetartyk Robert C. Walter, J.r. Issue Editor Assistants G. Peck Robert A. Saaf L. Pellettiet· Tuesday, November 16, 1937 SO WHAT? 'The fuss over haircuts for freshmen- which The Concordiensi::; has raised-seems to 1J.e a stevv in a teapot with much humor e:dended in the situation. The implications ()[ freshman rules as part of college life are n()t to be considered, because therein lie ftllldamental question::; ()!' the American edu- ca.tional system. But the surface prohlelll of how fre~hman rtJ.les should be enforced is the basis for the C()ntroversy at the !He::;ent time. The Con- C()tdiensis asks the ~tudent Council why, and Ute answer is pl'incipally ~o that freshmen will wear hats and thereby l.Je recognized by th.eir own classmaLes and upperclassmen. A worthy cause to a numbet· of people, but one that l.Jy no means wa!'l'ants the meas- ures for enforcement which the council has put into effect. 1t may be n woPthy cause-- but that is a debatable point in itself. If, in this modern day of collegiate enlight- enment, the Union College Student Council wants to apply the tonsorial scissors, why not go the wh()le hog; dignify the ceremony to the point of ausurdity-without harming the freshmen as is now intended. Make a fetish of the sign of the barber pole, appoint a class barber, have a weekly hair-cutting ceremony with the Ten·ace Council and per- haps the Phi Beta Kappa members in at- tendance. Why inflict the college barber with a job that is by no means sanctified by !)Ublic opinion and which may cause minor, if not serious, clashes. Since we are 'Powerless to change the American system of higher education and must content ourselves with that system in its present form, why not enjoy haircutting to its nth degree. We might even have an lunorary fellow on the subject. But rna.y we reiterate our faint WHY? AMERICA'S BIGGES'l' RACKET Students who come to Union College are cock ... and their pal, Mcinnerney, who always accompanies them to uot called upon to pay a medical tax. Not north country, continues to play the until there is sufficient endowment for ade- open field - . the Fuzzy Brett- . George Doyle romance is definitely If you love me velous, simply grand, perfectly Like I love you 3Well. And Andrea, formerly seen No knife can cut in Come and Get It, has definitely Our love in two. come and got it. Lucille Bal and Eve Arden are both very helpful. quate hospitalization on or near the campus jelled 't·is rumored that Ted · · ·Dear Pt'P:xy: Max Eastman says ·n tl b · t · d Draper is interested ln Hal Steven· thet e can be no wit or humor with- Wl tere e any sense In axmg stu ents. >Je>n's sister-that's right, keep it in out pain .. overheard at the ~ * * Last one down is a monkey's unclc!-J. M. Yet the college now makes some attempt to the Lodge, boys. 0 • 0 Grant Smith Worden-a Unionite describes a might be inter·ested in Peg Powers, certain Skidmore gal: \She's a take care of its students, without extra Skidmore lass; Bill Matthews clidn't simple, high-(Jhested, coWJtry girl\ I MUSIC ll charge to any individual. return to school, ya !tnow ... Bos- · ·. · Dave Yunich is planning sur· te>n seems to be a popular spot pnses aplenty for· those who attend By Herbert 0. Fox When an infirmary can be built, that is, these week-ends-Ric Angle has the Nov. 24th dance 0 0 0 Hy Enzer: !.;;;;============;;:;..! h ·ometht'ng t\ete· dt'tto B b Cl k \Why should the student counc1'l be . . one ·Evelyn Connolly, a local efficient?\ .... and then there is the ere are our ull-sized sym- when t ere is money for such an expensive '\ \ · · 0 ar Th f f project, we shall have adequate justification gal, seems to be the cause of a story of the Skidmore frosh who phony orchestras in the capital dis- strug 1 b t e J O'B · , upon being asked one afternoon to tlict; one in Schenectady (which is \ Ed Barry; but then Barry is both- have a cocktail left the following openmg llS season at the Mont fol .• a catnpat'gn. As C011dl'tt\ons ex1'st no\' fllr- 'g e e w en ay nen anu · ., thet• advocacy for such an institution would Hed over two others also ... Frank note intended for her room-mate: !\lea.sant High School tonight), two Freihofer is pursuing Gene Rankin, 111 Albany and one in Saratoga. only embanass the administration need- Skidmore. ·:n -and she's worth pur- Deae Roornie·- rhere ate also plans afoot to start les::;ly. suing, by Gad ... Dave Yunich's Have gone down to the War- one in Glens Falls. It would seem big thougl1t is not the dance but den with Bob. We're going to that the capital district is slngu- lt is therefore with highest pmise that we one Dolly, an N. T. G. girl. He met get stinko. larly rich in symphonic music'. The lle h th t h I d P Love mere existence of symphony or- tor·s not so long ago. She has Her roomie never got the note. But c cs ras, however is no c!'iterion to recognize the action of the Graduate Counct'l r w en a s ow P aye roc- - h t in appropriating $500.00 for the fm·nishing· moved into ttle Hollywe>od and their h~~ parents paid her a surprise judge their usefulness. Ate .these f d t , · th . romance remains torrid .. hint vtstt and not finding her in went. 0 ~~~estms serving to their best o a new oc Ol'S l'OOm ill e gymnasiUm for· anybody visiting New York: up to her toom to wait. And there a I tty the interests of the people? whet·e privacy can be had. The detailed needs she':; four-th from the left ... they found the note! And wer-e they . These orchestras probably are do- rumor has it that Helen Deines, mad! mg the best they can with the per- of the doctors are other important problems Mike En2e.r's sectetary, is no longer Well, nighty-night, son~el. and finances they have at h en a d l ·n f th · ht thetr disposal. Individually they are which t e Graduate Council has taken ~teps g ge - 1 e arms e>n e ng Uncle Willy. not as valuable as they would be to solve for the benefit of the student body. ____________ :_ ________ __:.:..:..:::.:.::_..:..:..:.:.::.:_ collectively. It seems a waste of IN THE MAIL FRESHMI<~N PROTEST the musical talents to have four or Theirs is an action that deserves the thanks near Editor: five symphonies in this region and O f evet'\ \ttldent t'n tile colleg·e To the Ed.itor: We in this lett · h t n~me of them either of especially J \' . • • er, WIS o prp- ht.g.h grade calibre or capable of COLLEGE SONGS The perennial question of college spirit and c<tlor-such as was brought up so voci- fei·ously in the Student Council last week- raises still another question: what shall be done to inspire the writing of a good \Union College song. Last year another Concordi- ensis prize (there have been several in the last sixty years) was offered for the best song written about Philip Schuyler and Union College. The lyrics and music of AI~ Wrana, '39, and Edgar Moulton, '37, were accepted by the committee judging the con- test as the best. That was all there was to the contest. The song was never sung or played. Here is an opportunity for the Glee Club to perform it for the college. It should be given a publi-c hearing if it warrants it. In your editorial entitled \Scalp test the method which the Student 'Em\ and your news report en- Council employs te> revive the lost gtvmg more than three or four con- titled \C<>uncil Reinstates Fresh- ~pirit of class rivalry. In a recent certs per year. They are all run on man Haircuts\ you have unfairly 1ssue of The Concordiensis the Stu- a semi-pz·ofessional basis, the local attac!><:4 the Student Council's dent Council is que>ted as· sanctt'on- ~roup using thirty musidans and . 1 torty amateurs. e>pmion ce>ncerning freshman hair- .ng, ln other wot·ds merely approv- Would it not be more advan- cuts by misrepresenting certain mg, the penalty of hair-cutting ta facts and by omitting other facts ~pan delinquent freshmen. We be- ,qeous to the citizens of these which did not reinforce your posi- hove that the Sophomore Clas£ miles t<> pool their interests and tion. Evidently you had no higher should be the body to enforce this emerge with an orchestra that motive than to stir up excitement rule if any spirit of class rivalry is w~ul~ be worthy of their eollecttve among the students. to be displayed. P!'t?e:. There are probably .eighty The Student Council's stand is One freshman upon being com- Pat<!- mus~cians in orchestras in the this: that if there are adequate rea- manded to submit himself to a capital dtstrict. Why not use all soM for fzeshmen rules then those haircut objected, whereupon an im- of .t~~se ~en, tax and ce>mlline.thelr ruies should be enforced. We be- portant member of the Senior Class abtl~bes mto an orchestra · o{ pro- lieve the freshmen should ·be re- ~ondemned the freshman for show- fesst?nal standards? There are ap- <;J.Uired to wear freshman caps, first, me: poor sportmanship when he p:ox~mately 500,000 people in this m ordel' to be able to recognize showed a !Lttle spirit, which is the dtstnct, br!nging us into the class other freshmen and thereby aid t.hing which the Student Counct''. af other ctties which support fin~ orchestras. them in becoming acquainted; sec- ts attempting to revive. T and, that they might be recognized . We fully agree with the mine>r- 0 accomplish this amalgamation by upperclassmen who could help tty of the Student Council who are of these men, .tax and combine their them in their orientation; third, to opposed to this outrageous exhibi- three m· four cities, it would be maintain a colorful custom,· fourth, tion of high handed th · necessal'y to batter down civic - ness on e part pride and interest the leadr'ng· ct'ti·- to create a class consciouness in a of this legislative body. college so divided by fraternities It is our opinion that the Class Lens. of the respective cit)es in sup- that class spirit is almost totally o~ 1940 sbou~d show the spirit portmg such an Inter-city venture. la.cking. Having decided that the wtthout the atd of the Governing freshman rules were good rules it body of Union College. remained to find a means of ~n- forcing th.em. Sincerley yours, It must be remembered at the Henry C. Harton, '41. outset that there is no undergrad- Bob Dickson, '41. uate police force on the campus, Ralph D. Kaufman, '41. the Student Council man make Paul Rieger, '41. To the Editor: &EORGE HERATH George Herath died yesterday morning. · \A billion do-llars a year!. This is more tha.n the entire cost of the United States A1my and Navy. This is mme than the Fed- eral Government expects to collect in taxes from all corporations in 1937. This is more tha.n the estimated total of all Federal in- come taxes from aU individuals in 1937. ••This is the cost of the political patronage The Glee Club may also do a service in soliciting from the talented musicians in its large body a \hit\ song which has been lack- ing in the large number of Union compC>si- tion.s. P.erhaps also the Band could under- take to have a competition within itself to write the music for a song. If there i.s a need for a really good Union College song the assistance of the above gToup-s on the campus, we suggest that the Glee Club and the Band take the problem of securing \a Union College hit song\ out of the hands of The Concordiensis. rules but it m-ust be very clever in enforcing those rules. We decided to give haircuts as a simple way to make the freshmen wear their caps. These haircuts will be merely £1 short brush cut which will in no way harm the recipi:ent other than causing hlm a little embarrass- ment and. inconvenience. Care will be taken that there will be no reptition of the incidents of last year. The underlying idea is to mar'k the freshmen as a lawbreak- er. What better symbol could be found than a \prison haircut.'' By bringing the matter out into the open we will avoid the \gangster\ complications of the last year. WINTERTON U. DAY, I>resldeDt of t® Student Council. Absence on a field inspection trip over the TVA prevented 1901-1902 fr()m appearing in the list of Con- cordiensis editor:g. Though too late for the November 5 issue, I am ne~ertheless sending my congratu- lations on your 60th annjversary. My sophomoric interest in the Concordiensis was aroused and stimulated by Lester Hubbard. then a Junior on its Editorial Board Later I \tried out\ as a reporte1: and somehcw (now finally cleared up by Porter Merriman) was chosen as editor fqr my seniorr year. Walt Hayes (the late :Or. W E. Hayes of Sterling, Colo.) was th~ (Oontlnueu on Page 41) Perhaps to the great majority of college students this may ap~ pear somewhat removed but t those students and td th 0 Alumni who, for some 40 ~~: years, have inhabited \George's\ and P:'lrtaken of his cakes and ~le, hts dea.t~ means the pass- ~~g of a gemal, kind personal- 1 Y· He was a bartender- hi- ~osopher, noted for his color Phis · mterest in Union and its scEines ~h.ose bar furnished for· th~ . mon men the ldnd of educa- tto~~: that helps one in after- college life. Of \George\ we have only the fondest of smoke- hazed memories that recall the late \bulls\ that llelped so much in toi?-ing undergraduate d at Unxon.-W. w. M. ays Unim Sea~ Lo: Contine As 0 R: Advers Hin The b rang 01 Saturda tory of aver a net sq1 medium d1 izzlini Steuber inspirec rise to Fort two qu back a having The rr ba.ll w of the er piE that h' game' ami sr net's made Hamil yard l Hamil \Brocl kickin the VI few lc Har first c fumbl 14 y~ failed temp1 kick, Unior 10 ya Un the I half, two· ilton Thor Patr Patr aftet reco· ter and side Han paSE pla~ beg: mer star lian to 1 nex rna· to : CC>n the Un 1 wh pa1 1 sec Br pu H~ se ch nE

•ugh our n·'s Sym- tives for tal Cine- ed Busi- rout out cation tu 'and im- ferior lit- ng young and Fer- sea.sana.J 'Y of the ·esh from yd Mawr) bitants o'f theatrical nen, with acquiring meets a :h •a fac- •uld make eryl' with n troupet· produce1's less little . on a role l!:nchanted <'erb.er de- ·on father that ve1y :r .jn the straighten gs have a regory l.a s thl' first ttes an il- 3 conveni- ryone talk .y by 1lor- ny Veiller with the n he1 best .ing Glory, d into the <ogers and ~ers' deliv- ies is mar- perfectly .nerly seen ' definitely le Bal and ry helpful. monkey's =;::;;J?ox II sized sym- capital dis- y (which is the Mont might), two 1 Saratoga. oot to start would seem !t is stngu- music'. The nphony or- cl'iterion to At·e these their best the people? ·ably are do- •ith the per- ley have at tl!y they are :y would be a waste of 1ave four o•· region and 1f especially capable of or four con- ·e all run on 1is, the local lSic'ians and norE> advan- ns of these 1terests and hestra that eir collective Jably .eighty estras in the not use all :omb!ne. their. :stra o{ pro- 'here are ap- :opie in this 1to the class support fine maigamation mmbine their it would be down civic leading citi- c!ties in sup- City venture. ~ATH yesterday. a_t majority ns may ap- •ved, but to l to those me 40 odd l \George's\ cakes and S the pass- d persona!- :tender-phi- Is color, his l its sc~nes, od for the l of educa- e in after- :eorge\ we :t of smoke- t recall the oed so much .duate days 'rHE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1937 Union Closes:Grid Intere8t in ShellGame Crew Rapidly Season With 7 to 0 At Union in 1'87(}~8, Waneil.SoonAfter. SPORTS STUFF By BEN RATHBUN Page Three Class Lacrosse Games Fencing Meeting Called Start @n Wednesday For Jnte1·ested Students Loss to Hamilton Continental' Jinx W m·ks Ag'ain As nutchrnen AI:e Nosed Out at Clinton An organization meeting of stu· The annual interclass· lacr tournaments will take pla~e this dents ln terested in fencing will be With apologies to Gertrude Stein . week, according to an announce- held Thursday afternoon at 4 might be called Four Ifs in· ments by •Fred Wyatt .today. The o'clock in the trophy room ol <Eig-ht Acts or. Why Union Won't freshman team will play the sopho- Alumni Gymnasium. Pla,y in the !rose Bowl. The \ifs\ mores on Wednesday a.ftern<>on at If ff' . t . t t . h b · 3 o'clock on .Alexander Field; the · su !Clen m eres ts s own Y order of appearance are 11) . . the students who signed up at the Jumors and seniors will .play at ·first 'meeting last week or any If it hadn't been so d--d hot at th am t' Thur da d th e 8 e une · · s Y an e ·others who want to fence, the col- Rain, Rain, Rain play-off will be held on Friday, lege Depar·tment of Athletics has fore the R. P. I. game, !3) If Ham- This tou.mament was inaugu- promised tl!at a fencing coach will ·om hadn't been hUJ..t at Wil- :rated last year and an.y man who be supplied to the group. Adverse Weather Conditions Hinder Pla.y in Contest (4) If it hadn't rained ~fe~ played cO<llege lacrosse is eligi- Thursday it is planned to select two afternoons a week for prac- tice sessions suHable for both be- ginners and experienced fencers, during the usual 13 weeks' wintet· fencing season. It is possible that, In s~a. of Mud The bells in the Hamilton chapel rang out loudly and lustily last Saturday, celebrating the 7-0 v·ic- tory of a dogged Hamilton team over a plodding, . D)etl1.odical Gar- net squad on Ste~Lben Field. A medium-sized crowd sat tht ough a dt izzling rain and saw the jinx of Steuben I<'ielcf in .tb.e form of an inspired Hamilton t~am once again rise to beat the Dutch!flen. This really is not an order of sour grapes, but rather it is a prejudiced attempt to give a rational account of what was be- hind Union's failure to resist de- feat during the late season. The Colby affair has been taken up before. Of com·se, the sun shone · just as brightly on the CoLby ·side of the gridir·on, but the difference was psychological. Union went north anticipating fligid breezps. and possible enowdri.fts. Perhaps the less said about R.P.I. the better. They were big and tough and slow. The bog which was Alexander ·Field that afternoon was made to order for the T.rojans. They got a break when Van Ladd, who is ordinarily a mild-ma11Dered gent, used a foot too vigorously to extricate himself from a half;nelson Engineer linema·n had on him. As a t·esult the : efl'ree made the best run of the day deep into Dutchman property. From, that strategic point a Tro- jan back slithered across the line . and the hapless Engint>ers escaped with a tie. While Mike Latvis was galloping twenty yards for Williams for the only score against Union in the For the greater part of the first two quarters tlte game see-sawed back and forth, with neithe~ team having any appreciable advantage. The mt~ddy field and the soggy ball were factors in the decision of the two teams to stick to pow- er plays. Billy Tho mas proved that his fine showing in the R.P.I. game on a wet field vvas no fluke, aml showed himself to be the Gar- net's be;,~t \mud .liorse·' when he made consistent .gains through the Hamilton line. :Bvo<!kmyei 's 60 yard kick in the first ·quarter put Hamilton back on her heels. \Brockie\ had ·a sliglit edge in the kicking duel, although, because of the water-logged ball, there were few long punts. Hamilton threatened early in the first quarter, whe,t Hammerstrom's fumble was recovered on the Union Don't k~ over £Jar get a. struke. 'l'bls group of mustache-d lle-J1?en represents t~e lltJ.Ion. crew, of 187&. · game at Williams. Sam Hamme•·- strom, who is a great fella and a .;tout defensive back, was lying prone on the sidelines. His sub- stitute was .badly fooled by this bit· 14 yard line. .After three plays B:Y Lawrence Pellettioer failed to gain, the Continentals at- Even b:l.Ck in the days of '7~the tempted a field goacl by a place . lld shell game was play.ed at kick, but the kick was wide, and Saratoga with Union fari:ng:; not Union took the baiL on her own too well, ·but in those day-~ i;here 10 yard line. -vas not the distracting il!lfi'llence Carm~r Scores )f Skidnl.ore, and the shells were· Union did not seriously threaten 'acing shells. It was back in those the Hamilton goal during the first roseate .days that the regatta of the half, and it was not until the last Rowing Association of American two minutes of the balf that Ham- .]alleges was held annu:all:y <Jn ilton again th.reatene·d, \Rabbit\ Saratoga Lake, Thomas was replaced by Fred Due to the proximity ~o Sar-atoga Patrie and ()n the next play, Lake, several Union stud~n't.s at- Patrie' fumbled the slippery ball tended the regattas at Sat:'atoga. after taking a reverse, Hamilton Lake. In the year 1874, t~ group recovered on the Unicm 30. A cen- from Union attended the tace ln. ter plunge .placed it on the 26, which 0<liumbia, a new member .of. and on the next play Union was off the R. A. A. C. won the 10eet, and side, and was penalized 5 yards. the Union gathering was so im- Ha.milton then completed a long pressed by the victory · ot: pass to Union's 4. An off tackle \green\ crew that Union. oecam\' play netted but one yard, and it imbued with the desire for a began to look :as if the Dutch- crew. It was at this rae e that a me.n might malte another g.oal line dastardly foul occured in Qlihich. the stand as they made against Wil- . Harval'd shell was aJlp:arentl:y liams. The Euff and Blue was not . wrecked by the Yale cxew. to be denied, however,. a.nd on the The Spectator of Unio11acnd the next play Carmer, the outstanding Yale .newspaper waxed q ult.e man on the field, ran the right end monlou:s. The Union forces to scon standing U]. The kick for eluded with the follo\Wing \belles conversion went directly through mots•• when the Yale .paper stopped the uprights, and Hamilton led >ending exchange cirpies: \We can- Union by 7-0. not malte oursel:ves belle17e that of Purple deception. It is the theory Williams,' B()w.doin, Amherst, Wes· of several of the more football wise leyan, and Cornell. It is interesting Garnet supporters that the pres- to note that the R. A. A. C. forbade ence of Hammerstrom at that roo- professional trainers, and that inent would have prevented the members of the crew had to be score. (Williams Rooord, CN. B.> students \of at .]east two weekS' The cry in Williamstown will standing.\ probably be that the score would From a Union standpoint, the have. been 60-0 if Williams hadn't less said about the race the bette 1 ·, ••. et cetera, et cetera.) However, Uni()n was saved from an ign<Jmi- through Garnet-colored glasses a nous last place when the Princeton scoreless tie was not impossible. crew brolte an oar, and followed As the last act there is that af- the Dutchmen to the finish line. fair at Clinton Saturday. Before Union was several lengths behind the raspberries are delivered to Hamilton, and Hamilton fared so the weather man, the embattled po().l•iy th:at her time was not taken. Continentals should get thelr just due. 'They richly deserved their Union's navy was not daunted, . They fOI•ced a break and however, and when '76 rolled in on it, That is the way around, the crew was again pre- games are won. on paring for the regatta, hoping to Hamilton had the better att>ne for its previous poor show- if normal playing con- ing. In this race, Union was rowing ditions had prevailed, it certainly in a new paper-covered shell. not take too much temerity Union rowed its customary race, to say that the Dutchmen could understroking all oppc:ments. and have \WOn. at the two mile mark, was in a As was intimated at the start, tie for second place-and then it the gridiron \ifs\ of this season as happened; the stroke of the Union put forward by the advocates of crew was .partially overcome by the the other schools in question might intense heat which appa.rently shed a different light. Nevertheless effected his eyesight, and he rnissed · with all the factors considered, it the course, and finished foiU-th, may be stated without much fear following Cornell, Harvard, and of contradiction that Nels Nitch- Columbla ove1· the finish cline,. hut and Dnke Nelson did a grand managing to beat Wesleyan and 'With the material at hand. Pripceton. need no apologists. The half ended a few plays later' their b~st and most nob~e men. are when Hamiltt>n int~rcepted a Union· forward in their public ilfe, b11t a pass in mid-field. few m.ean, low\lived 1: t\le !ops- Union received the kick in the dandy puppies who, by l:heh' mso-1 ~=~=::=;;;;;;;;;;;;,:::;;;;;;:;;;:;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;::;;;:;;;;;::;;;;;:;;::;;;:;;;;;;:;;;~ second half, and because of len( barking and currisl:l. &nappl:t)til; Brockmyer's superiority in the bring discredit to the vrho.le THE CAJAPUS BARBER SHOP punting de'}la 1 ,tment combined with · tution. To the respectab>le men {)f Hamilton's dec:ision to kick on Yale, we would advise tl~a.t th.ey Basement of Silliman· Hall second and third down, each ·ex,.· take the howling curs b~ t:be na.pe change of punts found the Gat- of tl!e neck and pitch ttleO! where A Special Service for Union Students net .a little n.aar the Hamilton goal; they belong: Into the seweria Q~ N\:lw Antll . ...,. Haven.\ As a result · Qf .s-ucn dip- ouy \'• Barbieri Hours: l:S0-7:00 P. M. It was in the fO<urth quarter that 'lomatic languag!O, both ~ale. 3:nd ~~~~~~~~~~~;;;;~;;~~;;;~~~;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;~~ Ray Lewis ex:ecuteil the most sen- Harvard voted against a;.dJO.llting satfona.l play of· the game. Sa,m h h Hammerstrom fa.ded back to the Union. to the R. A. A. C!. W en lil e Union 41) yard line, and threw a appiled for admission L-n the next long. pass d.own. the ailey. L~s, yeff'now appear.ed that there was running towards the Hamilton a decided interest in emtering a goal . closely cl:leclted by two Ham- cre-w in the regatta o:f ::1875, and ilto.n back field men, reached up, t'n sor:ne m·iraculous roan.nel', enough . and made a. beautiful catch of the d th t h mone::v to finance the veature 'Wa_s slippery ball. It appeare a e raised, Practices were held on the might be off to a score, but the· tit t three quarters ()f hard play had Mohawk River in a bo~t · a 'WaS exac.ted its toll,· a.nd though Ray described as \smaller amd llgllter 1 than a steam barge-but 11ot Diuch.'' did his best to pile on the coa • .After some last rnir.ut~ \:fixing\· he was plill~d down on the 20 yard Union was admitted t~ 'i:he rapks line. Three line })lays gained only of the R. A. A. c., anClll.ll was- set . two yards, and on the fourth down for ·the regatt.a. Oth~r ~olleg:es _I.'a .. ,c- Union tried the.- HammerstTom to bj t . 'th R ing in the regatta of: ::1875. VIer~ Lewis pass c()!n., na 1on Wl ay Ha· . 1 ·.~·ard, Y. ale, BroV!n~ ,Dat·tmoutn, in the end zone, but the ball was v batted down, and thus ended Union's most scri().US scoring threat .J' of the afte'l'MlOD. DeWitt•s Lu .. ct. lloa.m Far from bein.g content with rest- and'' Tap' Roo~ ing on her laurels, HamiUon de- We Serte ~~ E'OO<l cided to try a little deception, and tor &tier IOOal't!l on a very well executed end .arohnd LOUIS WASSERMAN QIJALITY MEAT MARKET 354 Broadway Schenectady Engraving eo. '147 JAY ST. ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORDIENSIS reverse gained 20 yards, and had ug:.u~ ;fAY S'.l.', ~~ ooMed ~~Q fu~ ~~~~~~O~p~p~.~~~e~w~a~··~~~~~~~~~!~~;~~~~~~~~~;=;~~;=;~~~~~~~!~!!~~ wh.en tl:le game ended with the ball at mid-:fleld. Statistics: lfn.miltiJn Union LE Hilfin·ge'!-' _ ....... , , , .. , , Lewis LT Erickson •. , , ....•.... , . Ladue LG. McGinn, , _ .. , ..... , .. . .. . Irish C Dwye1' _.. .. • .. . .. . .. . .. ~dai:ns RG Platt . _ ............ , .. Mulcare ' RT Bielb~ . , -.. .. .. .. .. .. .. . LadQ RE Sisson . , _ ............ . QB Farren . , , . . . . . . . . . . . . ...,\\\'''u\ LH Towner ...... . RH Sullivan , . , , .. , , . . . . . . Thomas FB Carroer- , . , •... , , . . Brockmye~; Scoroe by rerlods Hamilton ...... , ..... 0 7 () o--1 Union , ... , ..... , .... o o 0 o--o CONNELLY' 1858 Hambllr-9 Street PHONE~ .%;•0~.10 GAZ.ETTE PRESS Printing The members ·of the freshman team are as follows: Gordon Park- er, captain; Ronny Ostrander, For- rest Prindle, Leo Munay, Charlie Clowe, Gene Fink, Jack Vannier, Bud Dole, Tom Scannon, Ed De · Feo, Bill Nugent, Irving Schoor, Merv Gt·een, Diclt Balch, Don Haigh, Don Clock, Bob Molloy and Ted Scantlebury. The sopohrn01:e team i.ncludes: Merlin Fay, captain; :Ernie Baden- stab, Met1in Brockrnyer, Bob 'Fur- man, Mason Hutchins, Bert Olm- stead, Chuck. Passe, Bob Slatterly, Bill Witbeck, Jack Wright, Phil Hill, Mike Stillman and Gale Hoff- man. On the dunit>r tea:cn are: Doug Blue, capt.aln; Bob Walter, Sumptie Irish, Fred Pipito, Eay Lewis, Carl Coleman, Jack Coleman, Hank Clay, Ellis Carter and Mike Cappiello. The senior team consists of Joe Paul, Captain; Lenny Schultz, Howie ~hompson, Don Liffiton, Art Laliln:ence, Armand Cam- marata, Sa.m Farr, Fred Fagal, Ace Dodge, Bud Frlebofer, Jack .\f ott and Ken Tooop ltins, Troy Second Shirt ·Outlet Specializing In Finest Troy Secowls, ~ds 8l'ld Samples 715 Stclte St. &lli\'ss from .AJ.-mc>ry BELLINGER P.AINr CO. Arthur Trigg, Prop. Paint~;,. Oils, V:amishes, Glruls, Brwi!Ies !J,Ild Wall :Paper 126 BROADWAY I:ntl!'rtstecl i11 fJ ch~nectady Interested in UNION MAIJRI~E B. GRA.UBART Tke Jay S'tr~et Jeqotler 166 JAY STREET Watch and Jermlry Repairing 41 Specialty P ARICER PENS in forrnQt' years, freshmen will be given gyrn credit for fencing_ For HousE> Linen Service PHONE 4-31bb AMERJCAN COAT, APRON & LAUNDRY COMPANY 1030 Barrett St. Unity Shirt Shop 104 BROADWAY J~~lT 0 lF 1,-1 .:-. - - • ClJ.iSi.\:'.J~'l'J: ·~,-::· ·. \\,;-. . rt:.CJW .;>·r'!J~:~«/ • •• NEW FA..LL STYLES· .ADAM ·-i-ia-t's· A NMW SYMBOL OF a national organiza.--· tion dedicate to the sci- entific control of dairy products, this seal is your assurance of finer ice cream. StAARlEST DINNER CLUB IN THE CAPITAL DISTRICT DINNER MUSIC ·b to B Mnimum Charge SOc DINNER SERVED EVENINGS 5-8 Week Days $l.()G Saturdays and He>Udays Y~ur Favorite Chef MAC WAY Formerly of The ANTLER'S CLUB Catering to Dinner Parties Banquets Clubs Prop. and Mgr. John F. Gibbons PHONE 6-9SS2

Page Four Humor Hindrance To Christian Work THE CONCORDIENSrS, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1937 Honorary FeUow to Speak. Two Freshmen Slo~ Hamilton 1 Campus Opinion Divide; • In Daily Assembly Friday' Traditional Bell Ringing On Subject of Haircuts Name Red Cross '\Verl{ers For Annual Campus Drive IN THE MAIL (Continued from Page 1) enfor-ced, a doubtful Issue in itself, a more liberal meth.od, such as mal{ing the culprits •sing a solo ~o the student ,body oa the Chapel steps after daily assembly, should be employed.\ Declares Rev. Leslie Glen In Chapel Speech Sunday !Continued from Page 1) thuse who have a!.ready reported, follo\\'~: Alpha Delta Phi, Robet't B. Shepard, Jr.; Beta Theta Pi, Grant Smith; Chi P:;i, Edson Draper; Delta Chi. Howat tl Van Keuren; \Our !iff i3 a sttange n.ixtuH· ot Delta Phi, Geotge E. Doyle; Delta jelly-beans and teat:-; all the tlll>St Up~ilon, Cha1les Honikel; Kappa ridiculous things and tlll' dPepest Al.pha. ArthUI i.:l. LawreRce; Kappa things are twisted tugetht't', .. faid . ~u. Alft ed R. Siegle; Kappa Sigma, the Rev. Mr. Le:-;lie Glenn, 1 <'dot Cat 1 Trahmun; Lambda Chi Alpha, of the Chrbt Clnuch of Cambrid 1 ~··· , William T. Thomas; Phi Delta Mass., Sunday morning in his ad· ThPla. Hany B. Myers; Phi dress at llw Chapel ~l't vie''\· narnma Delta, Howar·d E. Sands, \Out· search for th<' !l1l'aning of Jt·.; l'ht Sigma Delta, Mat·vin religion for ourselve~ b ,.,mtiaually Dwore; Phi Sigma Kappa, 'T. H. being mixed up with tlw\e tt ivL!L Blaisdell; Psi Upsilon, WilHam ridiculous ~iluation,.; an inPpl HawkPs; Fy1amld Club. Fr·ank W. church service ot· a bot in<> fault1· :\lomL•: Sign1a Chi, Kenneth Rein- set•mon. The obstacle:-; th;t ate in haul\: Thc·tu Delta Chi, Jame,; F, the way for :,·ou and 1 to 'find God' !.\1otgan. Jr., NrJith College Dormi- are the funny situations which tory, Ll'slie Paffrath: South Col- make out· efforts seem ,;lightly lf'ge, Frederic A. Wyatt; Old Gym ridiculous.\ Dorm, !\1ortimet· Robbins. (Continued from Page 1) \Sports Editot'\ and my able assist- Dr. Walter Guest Kellogg, bon- ant. Well do I recall the littered orary fellow in letters, will address (Continued ft·om P.age 1) cerne1• of the Gazette office whet·e the student body in daily assembly Hamiltonians and escaped only proof was read and the paper put Friday and will meet with some after a noble struggle in which to bed. I also recall my surprise Friday classes. Dr. Kellogg was the th Regent of the University of the . they acquitted themselves magnifi- , B>t any faculty member ever read the weekly-least of all its \editor- State of New Yorlt for l:4 yeal'S. , cently.\ ials\-when \Spike\ Hale gave me When Dr. Kellogg was at Union, And t·he tr,uth as revealed by the a fully-deserved call-down on the in 1934 he talked on \Conscientious , two leading characters: Accom- atrocious Engli~h in one of my Objectors in the World War;\ He · panied' ,by five other Union men brief (fortunately!) editorials. I headed a committee to investigate: they went up .jn the belfry to watch, still remember the atrocity I per- these objectors during the war , the bell being rung. The others, .petrated; it was the expression \the yeai'S. soon left, Then Clowe held the bell then ensuing week.\ I don't recall ringer while Bothwel·l climbed up what I was trying to say, 35 years CALENDAR the rafte1•s to cut the rope. Un- ago_ Tonight fortunately Bothwell was armed After reading the issue of Nov. 5, 4:30 p. m.-Hygiene Class, Old with only a small paring lmife of I just can't 1 ·ealize that this has Chapel. the regular kitchen variety which any connection with the slim, 7:30 p. m.--Newrnan Club Meet- bent when forced into the rope. sleazy wel!kly of 1902 other than ing, Silliman Hall While he was fussing with the the name, and so again I offer my \Vednesday damaged weapon a group of in-' heartiest congratulations, 10 00 R N B dignant Hamiltonians pulled him Jno. D. Guthrie, Concordiensis Editor, 1901-02 : a. m.- oger · urgess d_own. The ,two culplits were done '38 \the Band\ no bodily harm and the Hamil\ 1:00 P· m.-Radio Club meeting, tonians seemed to regard the oc- Lecture Room, Elec. Bldg. But everyone and pverything has Administration Building, Miss that humorous aspect which b so Francis Travis; Bailey Hall, Lang- frequently the subject of luughl<'t·. guuge and Literature Division,, said Mr. Glenn. Cut.lnmn Hislop; Social Studies, -~~~o·~--~ Johnson Articles Accepted 4:30 p. m. _ Public Speaking CUI'rence as something that might go •over big at R. P. I. but which Class, Old Chapel, was quite unwo1•thy of the Union- 8:00 p. m. - Harris,on Brown, Hamilton rivalry. \The Challenge of the Soviet Jack Bininger and' 'David Fa}l'- tleld, both of the class ol '41 in a joint statement said \We are heart- ily in favor of tbe pt'Qposal to cut the hair of Freshmen who do not obey Freshman Rules. We both hope to have the oppmtun-ity to punish next year's•oflending Frosh.\ Henry Clay '39 said .. Some drastlc method of disciplining the con- sistent offenders of Freshman Rules I believe is the only means whereby the few remaining senti- mental traditions o.f undergraduate loca1 color can be retained.\ \All the hair of all freshmen sl:Lould be cut\ said John Nott '38. \It's what the frosh want-it's what those frosh •look fm who dis- obey the freshmen •rules-and it's what they should get.\ David Yunich '39: He illustrated by sew1 al ant•,·- Dr. Duugla--; W. Campbell; Biology dotes, but pt ineipally by the• \t my Hall. Dr. Et·nest E, Dale; Chem- of Marco Polo attempting to e:<- ;,try Buildmg. Dr. Eg.bert K. plain Christian[ ty in the euutl of Baenn; Ci vi! Engineering Buil<l- Kubla Khan, how Chtistianity had ing. !.\lr. Kus:;ell A. Hall; Electrical been received with laughtt•t·. Tlw Engineering Huilding, Dr. Fred- story of the 1i>;ing of Chrit't was Prick \V. Grover; Geology Hall, greeted with \amazing politcne,;s\ Mr. Edward S. C. Smith; Gym- by the Oriental:; as Pulo related th<' nnsium, Mr .. Ar thm· C. Lawrence; story. lt wa:; a juke to tltt·m. Libtary. !.\Irs. :Marion Buell; Physics Essays ,by Dr. Burges Johnson have been accepted by the Atlantic Monthly and Harper's Magazine for early publication. One of the es- says will be on the subject of edu- cation, whereas the other will be in a lighter vein. No definite date has been set for the appearance of the essays. Union,\ Old Chapel. Thursday 10:00 a. tn.-Daily Assembly, Harrison Brown. GARNET TAILOR \The cross too was an awful and P~ycholog~· Halls, Dr. Everett joke,\ said Mr. Glenn. \Pilah' w1 <>t<' W. ThatC'hPr; V.\ashburn Hall; Dr. out above the cross whieh Je,;us Harrison C. Coffin. bore 'This is th<' King of the J<'ws· o~--- J enldns .Says Crime Bill Is ( 'hallenge to Nation in three lan~uagl'S, bt•eau~e lHl thought it was funny. That wa~ such a joke that earl~· Christ ian-< never used the cross berause it made them wince. But the joke lm~ lost its m<'aning en tit t•ly no11-. It has come to mean a symbol of the highest honor, and the hi~ht•st thing that can be pinnt•d upun yo1.1 is a cross.\ Likewise, the word C'hrbtian used to be a hatslt wutd. and Put- itan aml Methodist. Th<'Y W•'l<' words which roused tidic;tle and laughter. Time has suftt'nt•d t hdt reception and today th<·y are atnon;; the highly respected words. \What we'ye got to do.\ runtinued Mr. Glenn, \is to examine the runnv things people say about us. lf you have the ability tu stand thi> 1 idi- cule, you have the strength to main- tain principles and charaeh•r whieh may be more enduring than th<' words of mockery.\ 0----~-- Dr. Fox's Statement <Continued from Pugc 1) too seven~ a Bocial tH~n.d\?an­ tage, and, if he w\'\ working his way, very probably at an economic disadvanta;,: ... On tl~<• other hand I ean imadnt' a small ~pecial tonouto•. that would have full meaning on th<' campus but would nut lw lou conspicuous outsidP. Since you hav£> nBitP<l mv comment, I might\\\ that I d,:_ plate th£' minimizin·~ of r·ln\ spirit. We nePd thi>< hot iznntal allegiancP cutting ar·1 n. ...... \\.·hat may be called the veiti<al all<•J.!- iance of fr-aternitie,;, dot·mitory groups, ete, It mai<P~ fo1· broader aequaintener and for a solidality that will hP pJ<>n>'ant and valuable in alumni yc-at>, To develop this. it is not at all neces~ary to reHot t to mob prt- secution\ or mob p 1 an k~. A few out-and·oul eont<\sls l1kP the tug><-of·war or puollhall games in \·ogue in ~~~nH' pla1 ...... involve V\lholP r-la~sP~ an,) tP(l!\f'· sent a good h<>allhy <Joitit of dvalry, with no unci uP eli \\d· vantag£1\ to thP F'n~shrnrn. r realizP that it nHI'v ht• diffi- cult to arrange sue h. ront <'>t s, SPVPtal YPfliS n~o I rnwlf' v.:h;d I thought waB a good .:-.ll~!gt·..:.+ tion of a b--.tet4hrnan ~ophon1otf' football game in whi<'lt a nPw tPain should bt) put in 11l1 t•:u·h side in each quatlt't. tlm.- bringing eighty-eight r: <'n into play. Having gn•at 1 '\pert for the game of football, I thuught this would introduce nwnv m<'n to its beneflt:o and pos,il;ly 1 <'· veal some unknown per:<onal abilities which the vat oitv coaches would bP glad to ,,.,·._ But my practical fr iend:o in the Physical Education UL'IJat ttn•·nl promptly pointed out that thP College would ha\'e to pu1cha~P a great nurnhPr of ou tfH :4 to place tlwse men on th P fidd, and, must impot !ant. that foot- ball wae such a dangenl\ls game that th<> c\llege would run an embarras~ing risk in subjecting to it so luge a n um- ber of untrained men. However impracticable this plan may have been. I still think than an all-round phys- ical contest undet- decent rules wo~Id be a pretty good thing, lettmg the men who didn't like it stay out of it.\ - -- ~- 0 --~-- Foul-Shooting Contest In a graphic address in Daily ,\.c;sembly thb morning Rockwood J•·nkim• '37. Ditector of the Sche· nt>ctady Boys' Club. showed the <'ffpct of early environment in pro- ducing young criminals. :\11·. J~nkins ,pointed out that or: the \vet a~?:e a major crime is com· mitted in the t.:nited States ever] 1'-ltuty >t•ecmde and that the great maj.;tity of these crimes o.re com- mit\l'li by people whu, in the eyeo of 'thP law, are still minors. lmagmary picture\ were used by :\lr. JPnl{ins m tracing the rise of c·t imittal r·at·t·els from petty pilfel- ing at an early age to armed hold- U!J~ wh<'n the youth is several \'Pars older. · :\ir. Jt•nkins ended his address by stating that the $15.000.000 which the United States spPnds annually in its war on crime stood as a chal- knge to the country. -- 0---~--~ Electrical Apparatus (~hen by R. D. Bennett Thtuugh tht> kindness of Dr. ! tal-ph D. I:-;••nnPtt, '21, the Union l'o!teg<' Electlical Engineet·iug Lnbmatory ha\ received a gift of ,.o!lll' a.pparatus from the Massa- l'ltu<'Pt:s ln>titute of Technology wht•t<' Ih. Bennett is Professm· of t•h'cttical ~·n~inPt~ting. TII\ gift. according tu Dr, Ft<'d· •·t ick \\'. Gtnver, inciudl'S a cath- IHlP 1·ay ost'illogt a ph. an audio am- plifil't·, a bPJ. t·frequency Dsci llatot, high-volta~e mica condensers, po- t•·nl!al tran>furmers and a V\'h<>at- stont- ·brillgt•.\ 0 :New Basketball Rules Explained to Officials ThP annual interptPiation of 1uk~ nv·..ting of the Adirondack Pi~trict F1o:wd of the National As- '\'eiat ion of ,\ ut horizPd Basketball Offic'ial,. ~>f whic-h J. Harold Witt- nt·t· i:-:; vi,·P-JH esldPnt, was held in tiH· Alumni gymna~ium last night. J J. C'a ~s idy. pn·siden t of the ,,,,,.,,at ion. r·xplain<>d th<' t ulings of t!w national committee whiC'h met Ill ;-.; •'\' Yrn k City la~l week to the .i ~~ rnbh·d gt oup (If b:l!->kPtha.ll offi- 1 ,.d:->, t't,:lrhP·:. and Pnthusiasts. Fulluw1ng this tht'Jt• \\as an infor- mal discust'lon of thp tules. 0 NOTICES The> rmblic SIJe-Uidng com·se be- ing conducted by Professor G. D. KP!Io;..o;g will m<>et in !{oom 13 of \\'ashbu1 n Hull tomorrow af\Ptnoon at 4.:30 o'clock instead of in the Old Chapel as previously scheduled. Until further notice the Monday epction of the class will Jllert in Wa,ohbutn Hall at 5 o'elo<'k. Found One light green jacket, presumably a girl's, in the back ~Pat of a Pontiac sedan owned by Rohett Saaf. The automobile was parkN! ovet· the week-end while its ownPr was ,away. Upon his return Sunday night. the coast was found: i!i; ownPr may have it by calling at the ConC\ordiensis. Every student In college is eligi- ble to participate. Each contest- ant receives 25 free throws which may be taken any time each day between the hours of 10 :3(} a. m. and 1:30 p. m. The free throws must be taken in the presenc:e of one of the members of the athletic Attt>ntion I.aw ~tudents: Mr. An- drew V. Clements, Registrar of the Albany Law .School, will speak to the seniors who are planning to •·nter the law ptofcssion. This will be a dinnet· meeting and will take plaC'e at the Delta Upsilon House, on Tuesday, November Hl, at 6:20 p. m. He~et vaUons can be made through the Placement Bureau. Freshmen having tickets for weekly <linnet;s at Hale House for Sunday nighte a1'e asked to use the coupon dated November 28 on Novein·bEr 21 as. the Dining Hall Will not be open on Sunday night, November 2~. department. · 7:00 p. m.-M. I. T. Cooperative Student's dinner, Hale House. SUITS PRESSED and CLEANED Friday 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly, nr. Tux to .Rent for November 24 Tidmarsh. Qpetl :i~h Copyright 1931, ttGOJIJ'l' ~ .lllrill~ TPiiACCOC9~ with a smoker when he finds out about Chesterfields Smokers like that Chesterfield TASTE and sure as shootin, they're MILDER ··. ester ie ~ Agent-1 sa bella c 0 z 511 Vol. L: Frm As Ct Meet Ma Bot Empc tee The its fir: as a Coun• cuts ! freshl Jar. City conse the p Each mem' or S 1 neut1 A.t in Si ty-fi' uatil repr tion. of v hopE and the getl grat afte day c abo foil to bie SUI cip TU giE Bo thE an m: eli pl cl st tb a di cc c1 a c b 1 I

ivided air cuts re 1) in itself, such as a solo ~o e Chapel )', should .vid Fair- ~ '41 ,in a are heart- sal to cut Jo do nt>t We both tun·ity to llg Frosh.\ ne drastic the con- Freshman Jly means ling senti- Jrgt'aduate cl\ freshmen Nott '3&. want-it's '' who dis- l-and it's ;a bella Z511 College Wins Damage Suit Vol. LXI., No. 17 Frosh Show Spirit As Result of Hair Cuttin.g Incidents Meet After Hygiene Class To Mar·ch in Body to Tony's Barbershop BothweH Represents '41 Empowered to Form vUlllllllUL'~'I tee Which Meets Monday To Arrange Policies The freshman class evidenced its first display of spirit this week as a direct result of the Student Council's edict establishing hair- cuts as a punishment foJ• breaking freshman rules. James L. Bothwell of Garden City was empowered by popular consent to form a committee for the purpose of organizing the class. Each fraternity will elect one member to the committee and six or seven men will represent the neutral group. At a meeting yesterday afternoon in Silliman Hall, a group of twen- ty-five freshmen discussed the sit- uation, but decided they were not representative enough to take ac- tion. They expressed disapproval of violation of the rules, voiced a hope for an interclass competition, and again urged Bothwell to call the representative committee to- gether Monday to prepare a pro- gram for presentation to the class after its hygiene meeting on Tues- day. Bothwell Leader Concern in the freshm.an class about rules developed Tuesday, following the haircut adiOinistered to Robert Schulberg by 'l'ony Bar- bieri the previous day, .under the supervision of the sophomore dis- cipline committee. The class met Tuesday afternoon after its hy- giene lecture and at tbat time Bothwell took the floor and urged the consideration of freshman rules and their enforcement. Paul Rieger, one of the fresh- man sentenced to have hia hail' clipped, jumped to his feet and plunged to the door, exhorting his classmates \to mob the barber- ship-cut Tony's top off.\ However, the freshmen class chose to follow a more conservative route. Heated discussion followed and by popular consent, Bothwell was selected as chairman and empowered to form a committee. 'l'he freshmen gr()Up then de- cided to go to the barbershop in a body to voice their disapproval of Tony Barbieri's position as fresh- man barber. The suggestion was made to boycott· Barbieri in order to force hint to stop cutting fresh- men's hair. Barbieri successfully defended his position, however, stating that he would just as soon cut a sopho- more's hair as a freshman's. He argued that he was only being em- ployed by the Student Council. Subsequent investigation proved that the Student Council expects to reimburse him for his work. Leo Kupecki, '40, who was also ~resent in the barbershop, de- fended Barbieri's position, remind- ing the freshmen that he. Kupecki, bad received a haircut last year. He stated that he considered he had benefited by the discipli~e. Following a statement to 1t by Bothwell concerning the freshman position, .the Student Council at its Wednesday night meeting de- cided to absolve all present in- fringers of the freshman rules from punishment. Tbe Council ex- plained this action with a state- ment yesterday morning in .daily assembly by Winterton U. Day, president of the Council, who de- clared that freshman rules are cre- ated by the Student Body acting as a whole and are not made by the sophomore class. It is the duty of the Student Council to enforce tbem. Henceforth, all . second in- fringers of the rules will be subject to the official haircut. ---0 Enze1· Honored in Publication The College :Publicity Digest, the official monthly pu.blication of the American College Publicity elation, begins a regular feature entitled \A. C. P. A. Leaders East and West\ in the current issue. Of the three directors of college pub- licity chosen to start the series, only one is from the east. He is Milton M. Enzer, '29, assistant to the· :President for public announce- ments at Union College. Support the ••unusables'' Campaign • \_; j • Help Red Cross Roll Call Drive UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1937 PRICE FIVE CENTS New Nott Elm Planted; Speaker for Thanksgiving All-College Dance Orchestra Popular Throughout State Yields Odd Discovery The \New Nott Elm,\ as it is to be called, stands in the Nott ;Elm grave, beyond the College Brook, where students for gen- erations spent happ:y hours sitting on the benches in the shade near the murmuring stream. _The new Nott Elm is thirty years old. 1t was transplanted from another part .of the gar- den through the co-operation of the college tractor and crew of nine m.en, who worked for eight hours to dig it out, move it, and: protect its roots from freezing weather by mixing the tl.ll-in soil with rich leaf- mould. The New Nott Elm, youngest carrier of the leafy tore h of Union tradition, rises twenty- five feet to its top branch, and measures a foot around its base. Tree ex:perts say it is destined to grow to be as mighty a monarch as tbe origi- nal Nott Elm, which witnessed the arrival and departure of all generations of Union men. Red Cross Drive Greatly Improved T. Z. KOO .Arrangemems have been com- pleted to have Dr. T. Z. Koo, ex-· pert on Fa1· Eastern affairs, talk before the Union College student body in daily assembly, November 24, it was announced today. Dr. Koo, who has .been obtained through the co-operation of the Stu- dent Christian Movement, speak on the Far Eastern crisis and will interpret what China has at stake in the present ~truggle. Dr. Koo served on the Second Remington-Rand Will Sponsor Smith On Nation Wide Hook-up in Future Prices Change Monday \Sweetheart of the Ball\ Judges Chosen From College Officers Jack Smith, who has been se- lected to play at the All-College dance on November 24 in the. Alumni Gymnasium, has created a favorable reputation in this vicin- ity. The hand has played as a fea- tured attraction at Colgate, Cor- nell, Hamilton, Syr·acuse, Oneonta Normal, and Hartwick besides at public resorts tbis suiDJUer. Returns Show From 50% 200~ 0 Increases Over Last Y·ear to Dpium Conference called in 1925 by ·the League of Nations, being one of the three chosen through thirty- four organizations; to represent the .Chinese people as a whole. Re- The band, a twelve piece organi- zation, plays swing arrangements in the modern style. Smith will fea- ture three vocalists in bis first ap- pearance on the Union campus. Billy Cress, who was formerly with Jan Campbell and Johnny Murdock, will be assisted in the singing by Jack Light, formerly with Gene Golkett's band, and Jimmy Yule. All the members of the hand are now under contract to the Remington Rand Company in Ilion, and it is expeoted that they will be spon- sol·ed by the company over a net- work program in the near future featul'ing this band. Thursday, Nov. 18---With only an- other week to go bef()re the an- nual Red Cross Roll Call cam- paign is concluded, the Union Col- lege canvass has already achieved more than fifty per cent of its goal, according t() the results posted last night. A total of $140.85 has been collected t.y the roll call workers from thirteen of the forty units into which the college has been subdivivided for campaign purposes, Milton M. Enzer, in charge of the solicitation an- nounced. Fraternities Show Increase Last year a total of $264.24 was collected The aim is to go be- yond that sum this year. The stu- dent returns show the greatest improvement, Mr. Enzer said. The fraternities which have reported show increases ranging from 25 to 200 per cent. The groups reporting one hun- dred contributions and their roll call workers, follow: Students: Chi Psi Lodge, Edson V. S. Draper $10; Phi Gamma Delta. Howard E. Sands, Jr .. $17.25; Sigma Phi, Frank A. Freihofer, Jr., $15.10. College Staff: .Administration building, Miss Frances Travis, $19; Bailey Hall, Social Studies di- vision, Dr. Douglas W. Campbell, $12; Building and Grounds staff, Mr. Samuel H. Johnson, $20; Chem- istry building, Dr. Egbert K. Bacon, $9; Civil Engineering building, Professor Russell A. Hall, $13; Electrical Engineering laboratory, Dr. Fredericlt W. Grover, $5; Ge- ology Hall, Professor Edward S. C. Smith $2; Hall House, Mxs. Cyrus Briggs, $6.50; Silliman Hall, Miss Helen Deines, $2; and Wash- burn Hall, Dr. Harrison C. Coffin, $10. ---0·--- \No Cause for Action\ Handed Down in Suit cently he has been working among students both in China and other nations. This is his fifth visit to North America. Dr. Koo is considered an inter- esting and fiery speaker. Many of the people who have heard him talk in churches, clubs, and colleges, hail him as the most interesting Oriental ever to visit this coun- try. His visit here is being spon- sored by the College Christian As- sociation. 'Pageant of Heavens' Written by Dr. Grover Longmans, Green, and Com- pany announce the publication of The Pageant oi: the Heavens, by Frederick W. Grover, profes- sor of electrical engineeJ•ing. David Yunich '39, who is chair- man of the dance, has announced that the judges, who will choose the \Sweetheart of the Ball,\ are to be well-known members of the faculty. The judges will include such authorities as Frederick Wyatt, Joseph Rotundo, Frank J. Manheim, Cadman Hislop, Nelson W. Nitchman, Walter J. Nelson, and Milton M. Enzer. The gymnasium will be decorated with fraternity furniture and ban- ners. The arrangement of this furniture will not be in a system of booths as in the past, but in a large oval which will formed about the gym. Colored lights will add to the decorative effect. Dance programs may be obtained by the presentation of the dance ticket ~t the Students Activity Of- fice next Monday, Tuesday, or Wed- hesday. l1o::J.day will be the deadline for all prospective ticket buyers to obtain tickets at the existing price of $1.50. After this date the price will be $2.00. Four Men are Named To Social Studies Club Written for those who wish to obtain a first-hand knowledge of the stars and planets, the book deals with observations which re- quire no optical aid, and those which are useful to the amateur who has his own telescope. Since it presentation of fundamental astronomical data is non-mathe- matical one, this book il;l suital:>le for the interested layman or the beginner, and serves as an intro- duction to general astronomy. Four juniors have been named to Dr. G1·over devotes some space membership in the Social Studies to an explanations of the seasons, Club, honorary divisional society, the telling of time by the stars, Paul M. Goldberg, '38, chairman of and the changes in the heavens the group, announced today. noted by tbe traveler in changirtg 1 The new members are: Stanley his latitude. Directions are given R. Liebman, Irving J. Nelick, Ben- finding and identifying the planets, jamin Rathbun, Jr.. and Edward and their apparent motions among C. Retartyk. the stars are shown. Membership in the club is based on scholastic standing, and is lim- The book gives practical and ited to members of the Social workable instructions which en- Studies division. Its officers are able any one to carry out hia own Goldberg, chairman., and Charles observations of the glorious pageant H. House, '38, secretary. of the heavens. The book contains The Social Studioo Club was 157 pages and was printed by the founded several years ago as an Argus Company of Albany. It is honorary society for the Social on sale at the Book Store. Studies division. Its activities have o been varied. an November 17. Mrs. Anna Swarthmore Professor Is Kope, mother of Michael Kope, Sunday Chapel Speaker aged 11, who was injured on the Last year, the club conducted an investigation of the underclass courses in the division, submitting its report to the Social Studies fac- u1ty. The report has formed the basis for a number of changes in the courses studied. ----•0---- U. C. C. A. Organizes \What You Can't Use • The Christian Association of the college has set Monday night as the date for its drive for \unusables.\ At that time the members of the organiza- tion will visit the various fra- ternities and dormitories in or- der to round up all possible articles students will con- tribute. \ We Must Boycott Japan Now Advises Brown in. Interview These will be turned directly over to the executives of the Schenectady Boys' Club. Cloth- ing and furniture will find di- rect use and papers,. magazines and sundry objects will be sold. The sum realized will be used for the advancement of the same project. .. British Free-Lancer Reiter- ates His Views on Far East; We Hold Answer The Christian Association is adopting the campaign slogan, \What you can't use we can\ means to impress the students that no article no matter how old or obsolete nor of what strange character will be re- fused. Players Ma;y Give Matinee on Dec. 4 Performance of \No More Peace\ Asked by Terrace Council for Skidmore So much interest has been aroused in The Mountebanks' forthcoming pl'oduction of Ernest Toller's musical comedy, \No More Peace,\ that .several requests have been made to have a special performance presented. One of these requests has been made l>y the Terrace Council for the Union- Skidmore freshmen party on De- cember 4 for a matinee .perform- ance. and this afternoon the ex- ecutive committee of The Mounte-. banks will meet to approve the matinee, Edward L. Carroll, di- rector, announced. Embellished with music and poetry and staged in a unique set- tin[{ that will represent a war-torn earth and an Olympian heaven, \No More Peace\ is cast in mold o-f a musical comedy, like \Of Thee I Sing\ or the present New York success, \I'd Rather Be Right.\ 'l'he play will be presented in The Mountebanks Theatre on De- cember 3, 4 and 6, and road en- gagements are also being arranged. 'The subscription prog1·am for this :year to secure 100 patrons for the plays was begun this week by Mil- ton M. Enzer, graduate manager, and reservations for student seats will be made following the Thanks- giving vacation. Mr. Carroll, in commenting upon the first play which opens the 26th season of The Mountebanks, said, \ 'No More Peace' is a propaganda play against war. It is also a com- mentary upon the absurdities and cruelties which adumorate modern fascism. Yet it is not communistic; it. is rather infra-red than red .•. The interesting question al:!out Ernst Toller's play is whether the lively wit and catchy tunes and the incongruous situations do not so captivate one's enthusiasm for themselves alone that the more se- I'ious pUrpose of the author is overwhelmed by his Ingenuity.\ New Minel'al CBllections Given to Geology Room The Geology Department an- nounces ·the gifts of four collec- tions of minerals. The first of these is a small but very fine assortment of crystallized examples of calcite, aragonite, apatite, and quartz. These are gifts of the General Electric Company, who have pre- viously given the department many specimens. Mr. Herman C. Beeckel, a for- mer instructor here, has presented the college with a fine collection of typical Franklin Furnace minerals, from the Franklin Furnace district of New Jersey. Apply 'Unofficial' Boycott He Believes Japanese Economy In Perilous State; Japs Are Propagandizing Appead to Reason Chinese Militarism, backed by Communist Imperialism, struck at Japan. Japan for self- preservation, struck back. That is the n~ked truth of the Sino- Japanese hostilities.-Japanese Chamber of Commerce of New York. Thursday, Nov. 18-\In my opin- ion it is essential to the future peace of the world that the down- fall of the Japanese military- feudal state should be brought about ... so essential that all the so-called d em o c r at 1 c countries should work for that desired re- sult,\ Harrison Brown, noted Eng- lish news commentator, told a Con- cordiensis reporter this afternoon. The China of former yea1·s is gone forever, said Mr. Brown and with a Japanese victory the 'posi- tion of the western nations there will be radically changed. The Open Door has disappeared \be- cause we haven't been men enough to defend it.\ U. S. Holds Key While the United States admin- istration feels strongly the gravity of the present situation, in Mr. Brown's opinion, he does not feel he is in a position to say this feel- ing ia as intense as it might be. He pointed out that it has an alibi however, in the fact that the ad~ ministration is withheld from act- ing by law and by lack of a clear mandate from the people. He placed responsibility as up to the American people who perhaps are not aware of the extent of the crisis and the results it may have for them. There is just one thing that the meeting of the signatories of the nine-power treaty could have done at their Brussels meeting, accord- ing to Mr. Erown, and that was to impose an economic boycott on Japan. This would crush the Japa- nese military machine in six. months. \The British prime minister de- liberiately sabatoged the confer- ence and reduced the eleventh-hour meeting to the status of that other incredible institution, the Non- Intervention Committee, by his speech in the House of Commons in which he denounced all ·talk of an economic boycott of Japan. \It seems now that we have nothing to hope for from our gov- ernments in this matter and the question is can those of us who be- lieve that our own lives and our our future are at stake do any- thing about it? rerlloliS Ecpnomic Position \Personally I believe we can. I believe that the Japanese economy is in a perilous position so that an unofficial boycott by the peoples of Britain and the United States might turn the scales and prevent the Japanese warlords from win- ning; might, in other words, save the world from being made safe for aggression. \Boycotts should not be entered into lightly or under waves of emotion. Their full implications should bn thought out. In this case I believe the risk and the cost of intelligent co-operation to be im- measurably less than the risk and cost of Indifference.\ college grounds on Aprl1 18, 1937, brought action against the trustees of Union College to recover $2.500 in damages. The jury after deliber- ating two hours yesterday after- noon, returned a verdict of \No caW>e for action.\ Dr. Jesse H. Holmes, professor of philosophy at Swarthmore Col- lege, will deliver a sermon on \Re- ligion and tile Crisis\ at tbe regular Sunday morning service in the Me- morial Chapel, November 21. This service is open to the public and will be broadcast through the fa- Sunday Chapel Ushers The plalntU'f, Michael Kope, aged 11, allegedly suffered injury to his left eye at Alexander Field on the Union College campus on April 18, 1937, while watching batting 'Prac- tice. He was struck by a foul ball which had caromed off the back- stop. He received first aid treat- ment from the college physicians. cilities of Station WGY at 11 . .At a recent meeting of the o'cloclt. Union College Christian Associa- Dr. Holmes, the author of severa1 tlon that group accepted the re- courses of lessons on church his- sponsib!lity of organizing the tory and the Old and New Testa- Memorial Chapel Ushers, who serve ment designed for the Friend's at Sunday services. Heretofore Sunday School, was president of student ushers have been chosen the National Federation of Religi- at random often being obliged to ous Liberals from 1915 to 1927. He execute the duties without advan- has been at Swarthmore College tage of former experience in the 1\T.r. James H. Leseman has do- nated a large and very excellent specimen of autunite bearing rock from a newly discovered locality in New Hampshire. Early last fall Professor .Johnson loaned the de- partment several fine specimens of petrified wood from Utah. Mr. Brown delivered a Spencer Lecture last evening in the Old Chapel on the subject of the \Chal- lenge of Soviet Russia.\ In it he discussed rise of racial equality and the problem of adjW>tment of mass production to the present economic set-up. In daily assembly this morning, Mr. Brown, who is appearing here through the eo-operation of the In- stitute of International Educatloll., described the failure of the League of Nations to maintain world peace and said that the Sino-Japanese conflict was \awful writing on the wall'' which western nations should heed. .Attorney Del B. Salmon appeared for the trustees of Union College, while Leary all.d Fullerton repre- sented the plaintiff. since 1900. chapel procedure. WQ.en interviewed regarding these new additions to the Geology Department, Professor Smith said, \It is exceedingly gratifying to me to find that so many friends of Union College have Interested them- selves in the mineral exhibition room.\

Pag-e Two ~trnsis FouNDED 1877 \A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ 1937 Member 1938 14ssociated Colleeiate Press Di.stribu tor of Colle5iate Di6est REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL. ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, h1c. College Puh/isittJrs Representarius 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y. CIUCAGO .. BOSTON • LOS /\NGELES • SAN FRAUC!SCO The official newspaper of the students or Union College. Published 'l'uesday and Fridays through- out the college year, except durlug Christrnas ar1d Sprit1g rel'e~ce~. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephoue 4-4141 Entered at the Sc.heuectady Post Office as Second Class Ma.il Matter Subscription price Five cents a CO!•Y: $3.00 a year: delivered anywhere in the United States. Edllorla1 Huoms, Silliman Hall, Uu!oll College Campus. Telephone, Schenec\adl!_ 4-0133. Senior Board Hyman A. Enzer ........•.••.•. Edltor-in-Chiet 11 S. S. S>mth Co!!ege-6-97Z8 Robert H. Ferguson .......... Managing Editor Psi Upsilon House-4-8710 Julius J. Bundgus .......•......•.. News Editor 9 S. S. South College-6-9728 Henry D. Hartmann .......... Feature Editor 7 U. G. ll.-6-96!;0 Carl R. Trahrnan ........•••..•.. Sports Editor Kappa Sigma House-1·8325 John H. Gilmour ............ Business Manager Delta Upsilon House-+7922 Marvin M. Miller .. Associate Business Manager Kappa :>:u-4-7331 Alfred R. Seigle .. , ........ Circ11latlon Manager Kappa Xu-4·7331 JWiior Board ASSOCIATE EDITORS Herbert 0. Fox Hobert A. Saaf Frederick \\', Hequembourg Jerome Smith H. Wyman Hitchcock Edward C. Retartyk Robert C. Walter, Jr. Issue Editor Fredrick W. Hequembomg C. Cammack Assistants W. Hitchcock G. Hoffman Friday, November 19, 1937 A DEAN'S LIST MAN? Since the inaugural of om new marking system, we have been hearing complaints and protests from students who have just fallen short of the Dean's list, and whose argu- ments many of us have passed off as \wet- blanket\ alibis. However, on closer scrutiny we find that many of these students have maintained averages, comparatively, just as high as those included on the honor roll. For example students have been excluded because one intruding C would drag down four other grades of high B work. On the other hand, a student having a single snap course, or do- ing good work in one subject, can compen- sate for C's and D's with a single A (5 credits) ~nd thereuy be included on the Dean's list. Is this second student superior to ti1e fit·,.;t in ,;eholar,.;hip, \\'hl'lt \H' eon::;ickr hi::. <t\ctage ·: b tin: Dean·., Ji,.,t all ,t~:curate c.:ategor~· of h ig!t ~clwlar:;h ip men'! Suppoeters of our pt't>::;ent marking- Hystem may say that we cannot compare our existing- marking sy,;tem of ll'tters aild credits \\'ith L>ne based on numerical mm·ks (70, 80, etc.). fn answer·, we add that our marking system is l.Jased on just such a numerical system, especially \Vhen we consider the fact that many of om hom· exams, the backbone of our grades, are marked in numerical terms or in .shades of a letter (C plus, B plus, etc.) Can we igno1·e this fundamental basis for a system which has an entirely different vocabulary? The college does not recognize either nu- merical marking-s or shades of alphabetical markings. Yet there are many professors, especially in the scientific divisions, who have become inured to this old system, de- spite the fact that it is no longer recognized. Perhaps it is the fault of an instructor then, that he should mark hour exams numerically or in pluses and minuses of a letter, and thereby increase the expectations of a stu- dent in regard to his quarterly report. 01· perhaps, it is because of the absence of four credits for high B work, that we have THE CONOORDIENSrS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1937 this fallacy in our system. A stu(il.ent just falling slilort of an A has to be satisfied with u mark given to another student just l'each- ing a B g-rade. We therefore, very readily solicit criticism or approval of our present system. Although we would not discard the system, we do be- lieve that l1ere is a tangled problem and we call for sDlu tions. We can only encourage the faculty and administration to investigate it thoroughly. We also wish both students and faculty to take recourse to our mail column, and voice their opinions. PRAISE Ji 1 0R US The unnuul response of Union College to Red Cross appeals in recent years has been. indicatiYe of a general willingness to share a great responsibility with all other commun- ities in the wol'ld. Milton Enzer·'s fine co- ordination of the campaigns in three years has been productive of pmiseworthy results, and the immediate action of the campus sup- ports this, There have been seveeal instances, notably in the Community Chest Campaign of last year, wh.et·e the students have not given as willingly as they can. But on the wh()le the extent of the generosity has been over- shadowed by the intentions of doing· good. The results of the present campaign for the Red Gross and those for Ellis Hospital are brought about because of a generous spirit. Let us maintain it. A :NEW ADVISOR SYSTEM Union h.as made a great step forward in its program of orientation for freshmen by the Ft·eshrnan Camp and the new Freshman Record. However, there is more which can and should be done to assist newcomers in getting established in the college environ- ment. What Union needs badly is a more ade- quate system of faculty advisors. The fresh- man has 1nany serious problems in the solu- tion of which he needs adult advice. Selec- tion of a life profession, elective courses, extra-cul'ricular activities, social life, are but a few of the subjects which present complex and diffictllt problems to him. Our present system of faculty advisors serves only the purpose of distributing quar- terly grades and that vel'Y badly. Except for the vague invitation offered the advisee of seeing his faculty mentor any time he has a problem, the present scheme has no pr-ogram. Human nature being what it is, this idea doesn't wo:rk. The ~s~tem we would advocate to replace the present one is copied from that used at auothl'r colll'ge of similat· :-;i;w. F<teulty mem- IJL'L' ~dc·cktl Oil ua~b uf fil pel'l:iullalitie,., fur thi~ typf' of work each haw eight or ten f!'esh men <ldvisees assigned to them. The faculty member is required to meet at least once a month with each of his advisees and deliberately seek out and attempt to solve the student's problems. He also endeavors to guide the student in his outside reading and ex tm-curri cular activities. Unde1· this system, the freshman has the aid of a11 experienced man who has seen col- lege life over a number <>f years and is cog-- nizant of its problems and the best solution of them. College is a most important form- ative period in the life of a student and he should not be allowed to blunder through it blindly and perhaps mistakenly when a little advice would set him aright and enable him to make a definite success of his collegiate career. It may be arg-ued that the present advis- ory system has the machinery set up for such a 1H().gram. The fact remains that it does not function. The real need is for a positive system under which advisors are re- quired tD meet students regula1·ly, actively discuss their problems, and where advisors have enough advisees so they can keep per sonal track of them. ~~==========================~~ \ but,.,;[· I D l E :D :R I V E L . fact is that only a few Saturdays ago, Octob e;· 30, to be exact, a stroll- ing band of Irish leprechauns Now that the Student Council!.. freshmB;n wa:IILed into Student climbed the Blue Gate aond, ignoring has succeeded in surprising every- Council meeting tonight, and rather the startled protests of Tom Gould, body except themselves. with theft- d!st~rbed. the equanimity. of that_· gained access to the entire college new brainstorm-surpnse elections, dignified body. It was some mi3_1 grounds. Some of them entered the we should like to come out with .a:.. utes before they found out that oh.iS presidential mansion and tore up little opinion that's been festering;; name was Both.well, and that be Di', Fox's speeches. Others went a in the back of our cerebrum fO'l' a... repvesent~d a fre~hman . g.roup bit farther and poured red ink all Jon= time. Surprise elections are to: which obJected .te ha1rcuts. For one over Mr. Hoad'ley's account books in eli~inate deals. And yet many a: and l?ne h~lf hour~ the:,: ell.tertarn- the administration building. Heidi' member of the present StJident: ed '!urn wrth a _discussion ·on the barked loudly as others round- Council has gotten on just through subjec;t. We decrd\;d that per~aJJB ed Char· ley Waldron's South ·College . the· use of that device. Moreover, we· mtght try sendmg some fr1end home, and creeping into Hale the elec-tions are a sur-prise to . around, to try to see i_f we, ~oo; House thr()ugh the Venetian blinds, • everyone hut the Student Council could get them off on an mterestmg dined sumptuously on those hidden -at least that may prove to be in topic. Maybe they would break stores of delectable viands which, the .future. down and start telling jokes. interdicted for common student consumption, are brought into evi-· And while we're on it, isn't a sut•- * * ·• dence only for the most superspe- prise election just one big deal in The Newman Club ·Of Alba1:1y cia! of faculty banquets. To con- the Student Council itself? Who are State recently decided to hold 11. dense matters somewhat, these the 'logical men to be nominated on joint dance with Union's Newman leprechauns, or banshees, or pixies, a ballot which is a more or less• Club and promptly sent over ·II. or call ·them what you will, roamed free-for-all but just those Studeacf blanket invitation. However-, tlle at large over the campus, spread-,. Council. members who ar-e in the patient girls of :State received DO ing havoc in classes, fraternities, public eye and have a long list o:f reply and cancelled the dance int· dormitories, and gymnasia. Certain offices already on their strings? h mediately, espe<!ially when OpEn elves ·even went so far as to se- gives no opportunity fm the infu.· House night was pending for t:he cure quizzes and examination pa-' sian of such new blood that .th<e . following day The girls prepar-ed pers and· mark them with a pro- Student Counci 1 features so 0 bvi- for a quiet evening of studying, fessorial acumen which was to pro- ously r.ight now. Tbe Student Coun.- when Unionites, about fifty strong, duce that most singular of all cil president will naturally enough arrived and with customary la<!lt anomalies, an entire class contented be chosen class preside·nt, etc. of propriety, began an impromptu with its grades. But, as in the past, everytime a dance. The girls were quite over- conscientious objector ·raises hi::;~ come wt'th the crew tha. t came over, It so c ha.11ced that at the very 1 11 1 · t' t he 1·~ one sma• Pam we no e, ~ cons1'der1·ng the fact that Newman how:-:o of this supernatural on- tl d r•· · tl 1 he\\ nromp y an e •IC!en Y sque c \\ Clubbers were quite definitely in slaught a certain very methodical with a single misnomer \disa).>-: professor was allowing himself his pointed office-seeker.\ we think th-e the minority. one yearly abberation: a walk· council has had things too mucll * • • across Library field in the rain.' their own way this year; a dern- We got this poem .from a con- This professor walked with his ocratic body thrives on criticism, tributor; he explained that it w-as back bowed from many years of· and we propose to do some heck:- an answer to the poem in Just in diligent ])Oring over obscure tomes,· ling-and a lot of it. Jest--it was the way he felt abDut and over stop-watches at track • * * Skidmore. meets. It was because of his con- The Hamilton game, despite Olll' We once took out a Sltidmore cave posture that he was able to loss, provided many a Union sta- girl, \ee the particularly little brownie dent with souvenirs. It seems tha.t Introduced her to our socia1 who was riding on his left shoe; our band, en masse, with the bl'as:s· whirl. those of us who walk erect with leading, attacked a fraternity gr-oU!Jl She told us how she loved our eyes ahead can never discern small' at Hamilton, and not only came car, sprites under our noses. The pro- away with green, Hamilton, fFosili And drank with us across fessor sat down on the library caps, but with lamps, pennants, bar. steps and viewed the leprechaun and other sundry furnishings. We walked about-! held with disg-ust Such eerie rnanifesta- • * * hand. the he~r tions were not provided for under We are told that an anonymou.s (Continued on Page 4) his all-enveloping system of con----------------------------- crete pragmatism. \Humph!\ said the professor. At first the leprechaun did not deign to reply vocally. He stuck out his tongue, wiggled his ears, re- lieved himself of several onerous burdens, and blew his nose. Then he danced a lewd and lascivious dance which was first performed at the court of Pan. And finally he addressed the professor with a stream of rhymed Gaelic invective, which the professor understood subconsciouslly, but not literally. I have talt:en the liberty of trans- lating some of the leprechaun's words from the original: Piano mover, Chr-onic prover, Herbert Hoover, You! Plodding peasant, Can't look pleasant, Dry at present, Too. I despise you; I advise you Mainly to relax; Get a smile up, Wake your bile up, And forget your facts! When the leprechaun had com- pleted his song and dance the pro- fessor felt very much annoyed. His visual and aural senses had at- tested to the actuality of his in- sulter, bat his mind was unwilling to accept what it could not explain. \Humph\ said the professor. He did not realize that \Humph\ re- peated two times in succession con- Rtitutrd an ahrac.adahra which forced every Ieprecha1,1n to return instantly to Ireland. The little fel- loW' who had hf'f'n sitting besidP hlln on _the libtary steps dbap· fH':!It'll irtlfl}('Lliatt•]y, uf COUI.:-.t', bUt not IJpfore giving the professor a wl'll di!L'clcd bluw in the :;ular plf'XUS, The pmfessor walked home, quite breathle~s with the evening's events. He was not much shaken in his pragmatism. because he was unwilling to accept his own objec- tive evidence as empiric pioof. However, the pain in his solar plexus turned into birth pangs, so that he sat down at his typewriter and produced a cleverly turned bit of light verse along the same · rhythms as the leprechaun's song. And the next Monday he startled his class in S. S. 10 with the fol· lowing syllogism: All square wheeled bicycles are boneless turnips. All boneless turnips are laughing hyenas. Thereforoe, all square wheeled bi- cycles are boneless turnips. For the rest of his life he was a pragmatic poet.- H. M.S. ---0--- IN THE MAIL · Tlte C().ncordiensis has received several tlnsigned letters in the mail ostensibly from students. These will be published only if the writers of the letter-s are lmown to the senior board. All comments printed in the mail colllDllls are not necessarily those of t:he editors. The naan,es of writers of tbe letters need not be printed if tbat is the desh·e, but I'esponsibllity for authorship must be placed by The Concordiensis. The Last Word is never spoken at wesrern Electric The urge to \make it better'' is always there ~~N you approach o-ld problems with a fresh view- point. you often ge-t ().lltstanding improvements. For example: wires f'or telephone cable had long been insulated by a spiral wrapping of paper ribbon. Refusing to acee1)t this as.tlte \last word,\ a Westeru Electric engineer mixed a wood pulp solution in a milk bottle-poured it on a wire-the plllp stuoek. The systematic development of this idea resulted in a new and more econoKllical insulat- ing pl'ocess-maliing nn irumlating covering ()f paper right on the wire! Such origimlity leads tv unproved mnnufacturing pro- cesses and better telephone apparatus for the Bell System. Illanufaeturing Planta .at Chicago, lll., Kear-ny, N. J., and Baltimore, .Md. Wittn• Fifty~ To Fa Block U': Manag F1mr Elect 4 Teams Season: Ma~ Thursda Committe rnent, co· Harold VI tains and teams, t: athletes ' aUa, and their actl Twent)l awarded, rnem·bers team, fi' and two class nu: by the • the fres country freshmeJ Charle U for rr Stanley U for n: team. C Ken R and Wil of the j was el• Brown baseball this ye~ Tuesc in the 1 ium th, ball wi footbal' Thos U awa Brockr: Busino Ladd, care, Willial Fred Amaze Willia1 Thol in m Hawk Bill J Tho award Freih4 sity j and I count Owen being cross Fre were Jame Max Guib, son, Norr nier, liam Tt erall Don Rob and Frc A mal 1·ep nex 23, Gy1

~w- een tric red ent lat- ght •ro. =J.i .• i Student 1d rather of that me mhi- . that .Jl.is that be 1 group . For one >ntertai:n- 1 Dn tbe pethaJJS 1e friend· we, toO; cteresting ld break kes. ' Albany ) hold a Newman : over .a 3Ver, tl!e !eived :no lance ·iDJ- en Open r for t:he prepared studying, :y strong, mry !aC)k nprompotu lite over- ame over, Newman lnitely in n a con- at it was n Just in felt about ridmore · social ved our •·oss the eld her ~ 4) c Wittner Announces Fifty Awards Made Hawkes Places 34th In N. Y. at l. C. 4A. Meet THE CONCORDIENSlS, FRIDA.Y, NOVEMBER 19, 19~7 Basketball Squad 'To F· all' Snort M' e : Captain Bill Hawkes, captain and · · · ' f' . S . · n star .runner of tbe Union Coll'ege. Has New Members 1 1.!:==='N=T=RA;;;:;;M=u=RA=L=s =d! Nitchman Anxiously Awaiting G1•ades Before Cutting Foul Throwing Contest Block D's Given 23 Athletes; Managers and Players of F()ur Teams Honored Elect Captains Tuesday Teams Enjoyed Successful Seasons as All but !Runners Made Good Records Thutsday, Nov. 18--The A.wat'ds Committee Gf the athletic depart- ment, consisting of Professor J. Harold Wittner, coaches and cap- tains and managers of the various teams, this afternoon named 50 athletes who will receive .block U, aUa, a.nd class numeral awards for their activities this fall. Twenty-three block u·s were, awarded, sixtee.n of these going to members of the varsity football· team, five to cross countr:y men, and two to managers. Twenty-three class numerals were also awar·ded by the committee to members the fresb:men football and cross country teams as well as to two freshmen managers. Charles Honikel received a block U for managing the cross country Stanley Kollin was awarded a block cross-country team, finished 34th in a field of 130 intercollegiate run- ners at the annual meet of the · I. C. 4A. in New Y:ork last Monday. Paul Santoro '<39, was a teammate· of Hawkes In the meet but he was 22 Man Squad ~orced to drop out of the race aft:er four ·1 d With his squad Gf varsity bas- . ml es . ue to severe pains ketball candidates swelled to 22 caused by stomach tmuble. Welch, a member ·of the Cornell meR by recent additions f.rom the team, was th~ ind.;vidual winner· football team, Coach NelsGn Nitch- of the event with a time of 26 . 54 man is chiefly stressing defensive half a min.ute slower than l~st play in the daily court .practices • 1 .this week in order to train his men year 8 t me. Michigan State, highly to offset the fast offensives which .favored to win, took team honors fm the third year. wiH. now naturally follow . Union did not enter a full team, scoNng as a result of ·the new na- Hawke.s and Santoro ·being the only tiona! ruling eliminating the jump- tap after sink shots. · men Brll Ketz put in the meet. This is the third year that Hawkes has The four complete fives now. run in thi~ meet, each time placing practicing have held several intra- better among the winners than in squad scrimmage;; to date, but on previous attempts. ' enly two days of the week is the He placed ahead of all of the whole group able to work together members of the teams entered by. because of the interference of aft- Colgate and C. c. N.Y. except Han- et·noon labmatory periods. Coach cock of ·Colgate who had beaten Nitchman is anxiously waiHng to him in a match before this year. see what effect the results of the These were the only two teams first quarter marking period will which Union ha:; ·raced against that, have in reducing the size of his entered full teams in this event. squad through ineligibilities. He 0 will probably not malte an official 22 Swimmers Begin First Week Practise cut until after the Thanksgiving- recess. Anr ineligibility casuaolities strik- ing at the probable first five, G1ant Smith, Johnnie Schultz Dave Miller, Geot ge Doyle, and Lotl Carr, would seriously ham·per the team's Every student in college is eligi- ble lo participate in the foul shoot- ing contest. A contestant may at- tempt his 25 throws each day any thne between the hours of 10:30 a. rn. and 1:30 p. m. Intmmural Basketball Each competitor in the intra- mui>al basketball tourney must be ex.amined by the college doctors be- fon parHcipating in any game. If a player is not exami·necl and takes pa1.t in a game, his respective group shall lose the contest by forfeit. Swimming Meet The rules of the swimming meet nay .be found in your respective intramural boxes in the gym- nasium. Entries will close Friday, ·November- 26 at 5 p. m. -------o--- Seuiors and Frosh Win Lacrosse Tilt Shortage ()f Players Deciding Factor in Both Games; Finals Today Outlook ftH' Team is Bright; Pool Re(!ol\ds Likely chances for they would prevent The first two games of the inter- the men on probation from travel- class lacrosse series scheduled for i ng with the quintet for its six. tht' s \\ee· k h b 1 d ff To Be Broken ,. ave een p aye o so away games. fat with the freshmen and the sen- U for managing the Cross country team. Class numerals were given to Ken Reinhardt, Tristram Coffin and William Ed wards as managers With sevet a! weeks of pre-season of the freshmen teams. Al Knight .practice to its credit and with sev- was elected to succeed Clinton era! new candidates to further bot- Brown as assistant manager of ster its hopes, the swimming team baseball since Brown did not return entered its fi.rst week of official The men who joined the squad iors emerging ftom the fray the since the close of the football sea-· victors. On Wednesday afternoon son are Billie Thomas, Bill BusinD, the frosh took the half-mann and Fred Patrie. It is possible that sophomore team over the bumps Sam Hammerstrom will yet repo ' with a score of 8-5. The freshmen ----·-0--- were trailing at the half 5-2 but at that time three of the sopho- mores had to leave and the year- lings took advantage of this loss to sweep the field of the remaining S()phs. this year, .practice M~nday under Coach Joe Election of Captai:n Wheatley's guidance. Tuesday afternoon at l::IO p. m. Up to now the squad, numbering Fencing Group Plans Season's Acti-vities NOTICES Frosh !'hysical Examination: The following freshmen have not re- ported for their examination by the college physician, and are urged to do so at once; F. E. Atwater, E. R. Bartlett, G . S. Becker, P. W. Becker, J. L. Bur- well, T. Coffin, H. F. Connor, G. W. Conover, V. J. Daneski, 'R.. DeMat- teo, R. H. Dickson, J. H. English, R. Fitzsimons, W. K. Flynn, R. l!,relick, J. D. Gabst, D. Gahran, M. F. Gerrltz, M. V. Green, J. C. Gui- beti:, C. E. Hill, S. B. Rill, R. W. Hobday, H. B. House, J. Kalinow- ski, R. D. Kaufman, W. J. Lewis, R. F. Male, G. Murray, W. J. Noo- nan, J. A. O'Connor, E. 1L Ottenot, L. E. Owen, J. D. Phillips, F. R. Prindle, R. I. Reed, D. M. Rickard, J. J. Rooney, M. J. Satkowski, W. A. Saunders, T. S. Scanlon, J. D. Shattan, R. E. Skowronski, J. T. Smyth, H. Sugarman, W. F. Swart, F. J. Szurik, L. A. Taylor, .A.. Tur- chiclr, J. H. Underwood, W. Vis- cusi, W. T. Vivian, R. Williams, H. S. Winand. Page Three Phi Beta Kappas To Convene in Troy Friday. Nov. 19 -John Mills, di- rector of publication of the Bell Telephone Laboratories, will be the principal speaker tomorrow night at lhe dinner meeting of the Uppei· Hudson Association of Phi Beta Kappa, Professor David S. Morse, secretary of the association, an- nounced today. The meeting will be held at the Troy Club, Troy. Mr. Mills will speak on the sub- ject of \Limits ·of Communica- tion,\ describing the development of telegraphy and telephony. In- clud.ed in his talk wtll be a discus- sion on the common principles which apply to all forms of tele- vision. Mr. Mills, the author of various textboolts in physics and electrical eng-ineering, will illustrate the prin- ciples of television by describing some of the latest advances in that field and by pointing out the physi- cal limitations beyond which elec- trical communication cannot pro- gress. at present 22, has been in the trophy room of the gymnas- ium the vatsity lettermen of foot- a \sizing-up\ of individual perfc>rna.-1 b 1 ·u ances by Coach Wheatley who re- al wr meet to elect nrott year's fuses to become optimistic though football captain. he admits chances for a winning Those men who received Block combination are better this year U awards for football are Merlin than in the past few years. Time Brockmyer, Ray Lewis, William trials have been held this week and Busino, William Ladue, Floyd Van the results indicate that this sea- Ladd, August Kluge, James Mut-: son ought to see a few of the Union care, John Krull, Sumner Irish, pool records broken. Thirty-five men were present Thursday afternoon in the trophy l'OOtn of the gym for an organiza- tion of the fencing team. Mr. Mer- ton L. Zubres, fencing coach, talked with the group on plans for the team for the coming season. Thursday, the outcome of the ' upperclassmen's game was also partially decided by manpower. The juniors started the game lacking two men l whom they soon picked up) and ended the contest minus a roalie. It was a senior victory, ' after a close battle, by a score of 11-10. Arrow hasn't a big missed game yet William Lynn, Clayton .Adams· As other Garnet coaches, Men- Fred Patrie, Tyler Dennett, Jak~ tor Wheatley is fearful of that old Amazon, Sam Hammerstrom, demon ineligibility which, when William Thoma.s. marks are distributed today, might Those receiving block U awards cut into bis present squad. The in cross· country are William swimmers are pretty well classified Hawkes, Paul Santoro, Ed Wells, by now an-d all departments except Bill Johnson and Frank Melewicz. diving and. backstroke are strongly Those men who received aUa represented. Passe, Brittin Der- awards were Jesse Sherman, Frank rick, and Dewitt in the freestyle; Freihofer and Albert Halavin, var- Dunigan in the backstroke; Cap- sity football; and Gale Hoffman tain Gordon, in the breaststroke; and Howard Sheffer, varsity cross and Harry Myer~. in diving, have country. Herbert Derrick and Pete shown m<>st promise so far and at Owens received aUa awards fol' present are strong candidates to being assistant managers of varsity lead the team. cross country. Departmentalized, the squad con- Freshmen numerals for football sists of the following: were awarded to Richard Balch·, Freestyle: Dewitt, Passe, Teare, James Bothwell, Adam Ciesinski, Brittin, Derl'ick, Mills, Reinhardt, Max Eisner, George Grego:ry, John ·Owens, Hart, White, Wilder, Falk; Guibert, William Hartt, Albert Jill- breaststl'olte: Kyle, Captain son, Diamond Marotta, George don, Wright, Gertz, Becker; Norris, Gordon Semerad, Jack Van- stroke: Dunigan, Miles; diving: nier, Morris Weintraub, John Wil- Myers, Mincken. liams.on and William Wolfe. -;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~ Those who received their num- ,; erals in fre~hmen cross country are Donald Collins, William Bastings, Robert Reed, Salvatore Mauriello, and Lee Murray. Frosh Court Candidates Called All candidates for the 1937 fresh- man basketball team are asked to tcpott to Cuach :-.:c!Sl)n NitC'htnan neKt Tuesdar evening, November 23, at 7 ;3() p. m. in the Alumni Gymnasium. \Sun Maid lc:e Cr-eam'\ SODA- CANDY LUNCH CREGAN\S 108 N ott Terr-aee WALDORF For All College Dance New TUXEDOS and TAILS TO HIRE Shirts, Ties, See Leo Minkin, D. U. House WALDORF TUXEDO CO. \!\.ten ~g Formal \Vear Exclusively\ 452 B' war. A Iunny OJ>Il. Post Offic·~ 2nd Floor !'hone 4-5011 THE CAMPUS BARBER SHOP Basement of Sillima11 Hall· A Special Service for Union Students Anthony F. Ba.rbi«i. Hours: 1:30...7:00 P. M. Schenectady Engraving Co. 147 JAY ST. ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORDIENSIS This year fencing will not be carded on as an intercollegla.te sport but intramural activities will be strongly emphasized. Most of those who are out for this sport have had little previous experience and therefore the program for the ·near future will contsist mainly of tbe teaching of fundamentals. The season will start directly fol- lowing the Christmas holidays and will continue for 13 weeks, run- ning info March. The most impoor- tant event on schedule for the group will be the intramural fenc- ing contest which will be held in connection with the boxing and wrestling matches during the sec:- ond semeste1·. This afternoon the final play- offs take place when the freshmen and seniors meet on Alexander Field. At the same time the jun- iors and sophomores will decide which is the lesser evil. Those members of the freshmen team are Nugent, Prindle, Wolfe, Haigh, Parker, Ostrander, Green, Schoor, Klock, Griffith. In the sophomore lineup were Olmsted, Fay, Bodenstab, Furman, Passe, Hutchins, Slatterly, Stillman, Wit- beck, and Hill. Juniors were Blue,. Coleman, Clay, Irish, and Borden. The Senior team was made un of Thompson, Agostini, Fagal, Brey- myer, Lawrence, Laurensky, Paul and Reinhardt. \YOUR LAUNDRY'S BACK\ ••• Wnether it's sent collect or prepaid, your laundry always orriv&s quickly, safely, by Railway Express-tile favorite laundry route of generations of college men and women, low rates, No added charge for pick-up and delivery-just phone 11earest Railway Express office. COR. WALL & LIEERT'Y STS. 'PHONE 4-561:2 DEPOT OFFICE• N. Y. C. STATION 'PHONE 4-851:2 SCHENECTADY, N, 'Y, ss NATION-WIDE RAIL-AI~ SERVICE • • • Today' s !irsl: string line-up features Arrow Gordon Oxford and. Arrow Tab-two smart looldng sh.irls every college man sho111d own. :Mitoga fitted and Sanforized Shrtwk. $2 up NUSBAUM'S 447-45! 8T~B SJRKEW We predict for Saturday's game ... THE WINDSOR An Arrow shirt with a newly designed smart tab[ess tab col- lar. Higher band front and hack; square jaunty points. That the best-dressed spec- tators will be wearing tab- less-tab collar shirts. \Vatch this important style develop on your campus. Mitoga fit and Sanforized

Page F<>ur THE CONOORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1937 II II Uni<>n's Debaters Defeat NOTICES ellllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiU II~ Save $1.6o-If twenty--five or more ~=====· 5====: .. Tidmarsh Features Brahms Future Law Students MUSIC Middlebui-y, 2-1 Decision By Herbert 0' Fox ~======;;:;;;!.! Because there was an almost complete dearth of Union students at the Schenectady Symphony con- cert Tuesday night, a highly de- tailed review of the performance would be superfluous. Enough to say that the orchestra has shown considerable improvement over the previous years of its existence. The delightful Beethoven Second Symphony was pl·ayed well with the exception of a distinct lack of phrasing and contrast In some sec- tions. Although the balance of the orchestra is not ·always perfect it is only fair to say that the per- formance, on the whole, was en- couraging. The Union College debating team in its second debate of the season defeated the Middlebury t€3lll at 1\!iiddlebury, 2-1, on the question \Resolved: The electric utilities should be govemmentally owned and operated.\ The Union team, composed of Lon Barringer '39 and Harrison Meserole, '41 upheld the negative against the Middlebury af- firmative debatet·s, Glenn Legett and Lol'ing Pratt. The Middlebury men's team, acc{)rding ·to Bob Denz- ler '38 is one of the best small col- lege teams in the country. Dr. Elmer .A. Ti~matsh will pre-. sent the following program at his organ recital Sunday afternoon in, the Memorial ·Chapel at 4 o'clock. Hear Albany Registrar Tuesday, Nov. 16 - Andrew V. students will agree to board the Clements, registrar of the Albany same train on the same day in Law School, spoke this evening at Schenectady bound for any destina- the Delta Upsilon House to those tion, and to use the return ticket members of the senior class of within ten days (on any train), a Union College who are planning to special reduced fare will be enter the law profession. charged, according to Milton M. The managemenl made a mistake in engaging Miss Jane Lauder as soloist. Miss La ud.et· has a good, but not distinguished voice, which she misuses dreadfully. Her high notes are strained and her pitch is often doubtful, but the voice is there and with sufficient training should develop considerably. We mentioned the possibility of a Capital District Orchestra in the last issue of the Concordy. After hearing last Tuesday's concert the possibility seems stronger, There was a large audience, and an un- precedented degree of musician- ship was exhibited. With a core such as this orchestra and audience to develop from, the task of organi- zing a fine symphony orchestra in this vicinity is considerably light- ened. The combination of this group with the two in Albany would result in an mchestra of much higher ability. The man most responsible for the increasing success of the Sche- nectady Symphony is its conductor, Kenneth G. Kelley, director of music in the public schools. He has labored tirelessly to improve its LJ.Uality. However, the prerequsites for a music director of schools or even the successful organizing of a symphony orchestra do not nec- cssulily coincide with those for a good conductor. Mr. Kelley, al- though he has wmked harder and more faithfully than most famed conductors would for the success of his venture, is not of the sensi- tive temperament of a good inter- preter of music. He is often apt to be pedantic in his treatment and his tempi are not exact, frequently being too slow. AMERICAN A·l LAUNDRY The Most Perfect laundry Work in the Capital District Ph. 4·3166 1 ()3() Barrett St. CALENDAR Satm:day 10:00 a. m, - Daily Assembly, Harrison Brown, Institute of International Education. 6:30 p, m. -Meeting, Upper Hudson Association of Phi Beta Kappa, Troy Club. Sunday 11:00 a. m. - Sunday Service, Dr. Jesse Holmes, Swarth- more College. 5:00 p. m.-Organ Recital, Dr. Tidmarsh, Memorial Chapel. Monday 1:30 p. m.-International Rela- tions Club Meeting, Bailey Hall. 5:30 p, m.-Public Speaking Class, Old Chapel. 7:30 p. m.-Band Rehearsal, Tl'Dphy Room, Tuesday 10:00 a. m. - Union College Band, Daily Assembly. 4:30 p. m.~Hygiene Class, Old Chapel. Let us again urge, since definite pt ogress Is being made, that a more universal and useful arrangement be made among the four orchestras in this district. A combination of these talents, now in operation sep- aratelv. would be a service valuable to both this and subsequent gen- erations. •our remark about her stage presence and dress has been cen- soted. THE ACME BARBER SHOP Welcomes All Union College Students 509 UNION ST. Nearest the Campus GUERRA PHARMACY DRUGS, PRESCRIPTIONS SUNDRIES We serve sandwiches and light lunches. 600 Union St. cor. Barrett Phone 2-9419 CLOVERLAND CREAMERY Phone 6·8104 633 State St& Thru to NoH Terrcu:e FOR PROMPT SERVICE 919 State St. PHONE 6-3456 GAZETTE PRESS Printing Compliments BRANDHORST PHARMACY \On the Corner\' UNION ST. and GILLESPIE L. H. Brandhorst L. E. Brandhorst I, Pomp and ~ircumstance~Sir. Edward Elgat- Largo Sostenuto-\ A Sea Sym- phony\-R. vaughn Williams On Hearing the First Cuclwo in Spring-Fr'€derick Delius Benedictus - Sir Ale:Kandei'· \The person with an average in- Enzer, who has investigated this tellect and a capacity for hard matter. work and earnest applicati'on will Students goirrg to New York, for All COLLEGE be successful in the legal field,\ de- example, can get a t•eturn trip 1 clared Mr. Clements. \No two law, ticket for $4.80 instead of the reg- ' \\ MacKenzie II. In Modo :Marcia _ \Deutches schools agree as to pre-law courses,' ular $6.49, and, in addition, ride in Reqmem\-Jahannes Brah:In.s ' · , . yet the subJ'ects mathematics, Eng- a special car added to the train D A N c E ~~;;~~;;::;,:;~;~: [~:f~:~fr;::~~¥~~ :at~;;'~=;;~.n.~~~;:; =~=-=- • ·It· EM·EM. BER T .. ·HA·. T • ~=:: districts was stressed by Mr. Clem- the News Bureau in Silliman Hall III. Chm:ale-0 M: ens c h Bewein ents. He said that the best oppor- for the Than·ksgiving trip to New Dein SundE Gross - John Se- tunities for advancement and prac- York, he will effect the reduced\ _ _ bastian Bach_ tice of a ma,n just out of law school , fare anangement. It is suggested = = Sinfonia fro:m The Cantata, lay not in the large cities, but in• that in view of the All-College S WE :CAM SUPPLY § \We Thank ·rhee, God,\ John the outlying districts, where com- dance' Wednesday, November 24, = : S. Bach t't' ot o heavy the students leave for New Yorlt = = Next Sunday the recital will be pe~h~~P:':~h ntoo~ place ~t a din- on the first Thursday morning ;: YOU WITH ALL : given by Mis:s Helen Henshaw, 'ner meeting, held at 6:20 p. m. a.i train, but many already suggested a § E who Will play Liszt's Fantasia the Delta Upsilon House, and was late Wednesday afternoon train. - DUJ YQU.R DATE - on \Ad Nos Salutarem,\ and' open ,to all prospective law stu- Long Island Olub: Frederic A. : •Iii · . , • E music by Ri-chard Wagner. dents. Wyatt would like all those inter- :: := Special Notice: These recitals are· Those who attended were: John ested in the formation of a Long ;: :: Cebula, Arnold Gordon, Harry Island Club to communicate with = • = broadcast Internationally by short- h - - wave stations, \W2XAF and W2XAD. Myers, Van Ladd, Howard Thomp- im as soon as possible. Residents = : The audience is requested, there- son, Casmir Lewandowski, Charles of Long Island and its environs, := : fore, to be seated before 4 o'clock, Honikel and Frederic Wyatt. such as Brooklyn, would benefit by ;: : Reservations for the meeting joining, Mr. Wyatt avers, because,:==- ·Full Dress Su\ats -==- since the microphones are extreme- were secured through the College transportation rates to and from sound will be p!clted up by them, Placement Bureau. Union and Long Island would be = 5 ly sensitive, a;nd the slightest - reduced to a minimum. = T d - o :: uxe os § - - Edwards of C. E. Here As A. I. E. E. Guest Speaker Mr. T. A. Edwar'ds, head of the transmitter test of the General Electric, was guest speaker Wed- nesday night at the third meeting of the year of the Union College branch of the A.. L E. E. His talk followed a •brief business meeting of the branch of which several committees were appointed. He gave a talll: about a machine which G, E. uses to test the ability of certain bodies to withstand vi- bration. This rn.achlne will vibrate a ()bject so that it will be com- pletely shaken apart if it is not built in a certain way, Following th'€ lecture moving pictures were shown and refresh· ments served_ SHOE REPAIRING 607 Liberty St. SPECIAL R.ATES TO UN ION STUDENTS Work Called .for and Delivered PHONE 4-0122 (Continued from Page 2) She snuggled up; she was so bland. I smiled at her - she seemed divine, But then she too had quite a line. For when I tried so hard to neck, All that I got was one short peck, The evening flopped, I got quite drunk, Why, she can have that Dart- mouth punk! -Jabie. SPECIAL SUNDAY NIGHT Home Made ITALIAN SPAGHETTI with Meat Balls and Chicken 25c: and up From 5:30 to 7:30 MURRYS Next to the High School SMARTEST D.INNER CI.IJB IN THE CAPITAL DISTRICTR DINNER MUSIC 6 to 8 ~~ Minimum Charge 50c; DINNER SERVED EVENINGS 5-8 Catering to Dinner Parties Banquets Clubs Prop. and Mgr. John F. Gibbons PHONE 6-9852 Week Da)'S $1.0~ Saturdays ancl Hdidays Your Fa-vorite Chef MAC \NAY Formerly. of ------- c\.os~o~\)Jt>. i ~es ~'.J~~\ The ANTLER'S CLUB Duke University SCHOOL OF MEDICINE Durham, N. C. l<'our terms of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken con~eculively (graduation in three and one-quarter years) or three tenns may be taken each yettr (graduation in four years), The entrance requirements are In- telligence, character and at least two year~ of college work, inelud- illg the bUIJjects specified fur Uratle A medical ;<chools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean, MILK SO RICH YOU CAN WHIP THE CREAM Produced under Strict Laboratory Control For Daily Service PHONE 4-3121 General Ice Cream Corp. - - I Bow Ties ~ = Dress Shirts = :: = ~ Accessories i .·~ . ; ·~ Abo ~ I rux~~~sR:N~~LS I lvtN;CK'SI § MEN'S SHOP § § 467 STATE ST. § - - - - - - = = - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - !i! IIIII Illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll ffi .TRAVEL TD TDRKE • • GRIYBOUND You' II be thankful youR trip back home over Thanks· giving week-end will be fun for all concerned-except the turkey. Even your pocketbook feels no pain-Grey- hound fares are easiest on the allow- ance-only 1/3 the cost of driving a car. And there's an extra 20% reduc- tion on the back-to-college portion of your round trip ticket! Get going-in warmth and comfort by Greyhound. GREYHOUND TERMINAL 277 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. PHONE a .. 34t5 Eor i:he saving ! Bill of Fares NEW YORK • •$ 4. 26 R. T. CHICAGO • • • 20.46 R,T, CLEVELAND • • !2, 55 R. T, ST. LOUIS • - 25,66 R. T. BOSTON • - 6, 50 R. T, BUFFALO • - • 7, IS R. T. WASHINGTON ~ 10.10 R. T. PITTSBURGH .. 14.65 R. '1'. DE:fROIT • • • 14. 86 R. 'I'. NEW HAVEN • • 5.95 R.T. z 511 A T· Dt lr Vol. L: All s·m First Th1:1 and s; will bE playe< other sing. Alth• stud en direct! large 1 dance. tured pre par a 11 .Sw chaser of fen Rotun Frede man, ·Enzer The a ted hannt furnil of bo large about Dal by pt at tb day • colle! the hold Th terni ine ~ Doyl gar, drini Mid< burr. Sltid den bur~ SchE bur' Tl tern Ro~ vort gar• T frat Sch Scb nee nee . 'I ter· era de~ Ba Jo: Sir lia He an AI Al n· V• v p p b b 1: c

- - E EGE • -iAT ~TE. Jits rs ~s K'S OP ST. - 111111111111111 ~ MD 1ving I Fares 4.26 R.T. 20.46 R,T, 12,55 R,T, 25. 65 R. T. a. so R.T. 7o!6 R, T, 10,10 R,T, 14.66 R,T, 14. as R.T. S.96 R.T. z 511 AmazcA To Lead Dutchmen In 1938 Vol. LXI., No. 18 Support the .. Unusa.bl~esa' Campaign • UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1937 Students 'All Set' For All-College Dance PRICE FIVE CENTS All-College Eve To Fea tu.re Smith, Swing, Sweethearts Inaugurate New Library Course For Arts S·1udents: 267 on Deaa's List AmazonlsElectedCaptain For First Quarter : I l d 3 -=-01- s d 01 Eleven for Next Year nc u es a- 10 of tu ent First A.ll~College Dance Takes Place Tomorrow Night ·In Cy11uzasium; Much Interest Cente1:s Around Choice of 'Sweetheart' Thanksgiving Recess will open tomorrow night in a festive and syncopated atmosphere, when the first al!-cf)l!ege dance will be held in the g·ymnasium. Jack Smith's band, which has played at Colgate, Cornell, Hamilton, Syracuse, and many other colleges, will swing· while Billy Cress and Jack Light Second Semester Cul'l'iculum To Cover Bibliographie Research Methods Body ; Slig·ht Inc1rease Over Pt•evious Pel'i()d The Dean's List fm· t11e first marking period which end.ed No- vembet· 15 includes the names of 267 students, representing approxi- mately 35'7< of the entir-e student body, or 4:~ more than attained this d·ist inction for the closing marking period of the previou:; academic year. Lett.ermen Pick Outstanding QzMrterback Football Squad for 1938 Season; Active on Campus to sing. Although a 1arge portion of the<?>--------------- Webb, Shipman to. Teach Individual Instruction Open 'l'o Seniors m1 Basis Of Scholu•shi)) The senior class, with 91. of its mem•ber:; attaining the honor. led the tN<L of the classes in scholar- T·uesday, Nov. 23-l\Ieeting- this afternoon the varsity foot- ball lettermen e].ected Jacob Amazon of Schenectady C!;!ptain of n.ex:.t yeat•'s team. Amazon has been outstanding fot· the past t·wo seasons for his excellent defensive play in backing- u:p the line and for his alel't generalship from the quarterback position. student body will migmte in all tlirectiuns Wednesday afternoon, a large attendance is expected at the dance. Among the attractions fea- tured the committee in charge of preparations, has announced tb.at a \.Sweethear·t of the Ball\ will be chosen by such well-known judges of feminine pulcht·itude as Joseph Rotunda, l<'r ank J. Man hei:rn, ·Frede!'ick Wyatt, Nelson W. Nitch- man, Walter J. Nelson, Milton :M. ·Enzer, and Codman Hi~lop. Dance Chairmm1 ~ Coach Bill Ketz of the cross De~ a. rations The gymnasium will be decor- ated with fraternity fut nitut·e, and banner,;, The anangcment of thb furniture will not be in the system of booths as in the pa,;t, but in a large oval which wlll be fuuned about the gym. Dance .progtams may be. obtained by presentation of the dance ticl<et at the student activities office to- day or tomorrow. l:lesides the all- college dance in the gymnasium, the Kappa Alpta fraternity will hold a dance at the lodge. The guest,; of the Della Phi fta- ternity will be the Misses Kathet- ine Sawyer, Schenectady; Marjotie Doyle, Mildred Elley; June Wine- gar, Buffalo; Rosedell .A.lessa~­ drini, Beaver College; Betty Stratt, Middlebury College; Jean Cock- burn, Amsterdam; Betty Schecd, Sltidmore; Jean Summet·sgill, Gar· den City; Jean Dusenbury, Middle- bury College; Lela Rockefeller, Schenectady; and Janet Scantle- bury, Schenectady. The guests of the Sigma Chi fra- ternity will be the Mi:lses Kay Howland, Mary Frelick, Pat De- vore, Mary Tremblay, and :Mar- garet Collie, all of Schenectady. The guests of the Delta Upsilon fraternity will be Eleanor Powers, Schenectady; Marion Winchester, Schenectady; Dorothy Lee, Sche- nectady; and Frances Lee of Sche- nectady_ The guests of the Kappa Nu fra- ternity will be Florence E. Shap· era, Bryant School; Beatl·ice Lan- dess, :Bryant School; Jean Ullman, Barnard; Ruth Br.inl~. Albany; Joan Cha1·les, Tarrytown; Rose Simon, Russell sage; l{annah Wil- liams, New Paltz; Rosemary Kelly, Holyolte; Phyllis :Brown, Albany; and Jean Segal <if Newburg. The guests of the Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity w!ll be the Misses Alice Beeker, Rexford; Lillian Mc- \Continued on Page 3) ----o--- Rou11dtable Delay As ked by Johnson DAVID L. 'YUNICH Dress Rell earsals Stir Mo11ntebanks \No More Peace\ Players Rest; Dress Rehearsals to Start Next Week The large cast which will pre- ~ent Ernst Tollet·'s intemationally famous musical comedy, \No More Peace!\ ·had become con- vinced that there really was to be no mote peace what with con- stant rehearsing during the past week. But last night Director Eti- ward L. Carroll painted the· most peaceful picture the cast had in three weeks; no more rehearsals this week; dress retearsals. next week for filst performance on December 3. The sets by Erwin Stettner, lately of the !Dmpire Players, have been executed by the Mountebanks production. staoff. Mr. Carroll will complete anangements. foi' the special costumes that will be used by some of the players tomorrow with the Brooks <'osturne Company in New York. All that remains is the gathering of the audience, and the graduate tnanaget• predicted So many of the students who go :;hip_ This is an increase of 26 to gt·aduate school from the 'liberal ovet· the number of tti:l cla•s arts college \become lost ·in. the who 13 e names were on tbe last maze of bibliography\ \hat the Dean's List. The junior class, with College has ananged to give a ~pe- an inerease of twenty of its mem- cial plepatation to \hose students ber,; on the Jist, followed with a who expect to go on lo guduate total of 70. The freshmen were work in the universities. next with 54, and the sophomore\ The college cutr.:cuhJm com· with 52 men un the list. brought mittee announce() tc.day that it up the reaL had appt·oved a ne'VI course to be Clas!'l of 1941 offered the second semester of Bach<•lat· of Arts: Paul w. each year. in Bibliographic Method Becker, Jack P. Bininoer, Tl'ish·am and Research. The cou1 se will be \ , open only to those seniors 0 n the Coffin, Jr.. Joseph T. Ctistiano, Albet t A. Davis, !II, Charles E. Dean's List \fur high scholar·shipl !:<'tester, Jr., Robert w. ·Frelicl<, and who are n:cornmended fot thP Boyd E. Golder, Ernest c Grant. course by the chaitmen o·f the Manuel Green, John D. Haigh, divisions of literature, social stud- William B. T. Hastinvs, George W. ies, science, and engineeling. Hcmstead, II, Robet·t s. Herman, The course will be in the charge John P. Lewis, Leonard C. Mac- of Helmer L. Webb, college libiaJ- kenzie, Jr., Gm don H. Parker, ian, and will deal especially with John D. Phillips, Ilobrr·t A. Quinn, subject bibliography in the human- Mortimer Robins, John A. Rusz- ities and arts. He will be a,;si;;ted kowski, Robert T. Sammet, Laskar by Joseph C. Shipman, libr·ar·y Schwattz. Gordon J. Semerad, counselot· ot the t·efe,rence depatt- Jame~ G. Shaw, Irving J. Shoor, ment of the library who wtll \eacl:-. Hyman Sut?;arman, MHton H. Su- subject bibliography to the student;; ~arman, David V. Tiedeman. Alex- interested in the sciences. ander Tut·chick, JamPs W. Twin- President Dixon Ryan Fox ing, Jr .. Monis Weintraub. pointed out the significant educa- ns in Civil Engineering: Rich- tiona! advance made by the organ- art! c. Belser, Joh.n J?. Canfield, ization of this new libr,ary course Hent·y L. Crosby, Jr., Paul V. for seniors in announcing the cur- Mara. riculum committee's action. He ns in ·EIPcirical En.glncPrlng: said: Cecil E. Angell, Robert D. At·nol<i, \College libm.rles have too often Edwin R. Bartlett, Conrad E. been repositories; but the compar- Beckard, Jack W. Danser, John E. atively new profession of librarian- Greaney, William G. Murray, Wal- ship is seemg to it that they are ter E. Plummer, Robert L. Reed, no longer merely that. 'The mod- Earl J. Simpson, Russell L. Uphoff, ern librarian, like the merchant, is Philip R. Westlalte_ determined to have customers f01 BS in CltPmistry: H:!dward N .. his stock. Lilte tr.e merc11ant, he Case, H.obert P. E:ncson, Richa1·d plays every note of enti~ernent to· Hildreth, Robert W. Hobday, Louis Jure In the custoiners, points out E. OwPn. lhe peculiar values of his wares BS in Physics: Richard. G_ 1\'ew Crid Captain JACOB AMAZON Y:ftnkee Tradition _America's Defense 1)1·, Fox Declares New Eng·. lh.11d. Heritage Is Our Reply To New Challenges .t:·1eveland, Ohio, Nov. 22~ \The and cuts down every impediment Gould. to swift and effective service. Class of 19.\0 . Yankee was a citizen, never a sub- Moreover, he drills his customeJl' Bac·ht'IOl' o.f Arts: Joseph J. An- ject:.; he represented coope1·ative in· on bow to get the mO'Sl out of his nes<', Ernest W. Bodenstab, B11r- dlvilluallllm, and cooperative indi- establishment in the least possible dick H. Britti11, Merlin L. Broclt- vld.ualism is America's answer to time. All this is being done in myer, LaRue· G. Bu<\hanan Quin-· . . progressive colleges. · tin P. Cole, Alexa.nder H. Cornell,: all challenges, fasctst, moceumst or \But it seems not tD have been Robert R. Eisner. Adieth w. Ep- ! anarchist,\ declared President clearly recognized that different stein. Christopher M. Fahy, Ed- Dl:son Ryan Fox, in an a ddt ess be- customers have different needs, ward f\· Fitz, Jr., ·F'mnltlyn P .. for·e the New England society of particularly that those -who me Fredenclt, Stanley B. Gertz, Don·· Cl 1 d d th W t R going to larger institutions and, aid C. Gletln, Gemge A. Haswell, ev<> an an e <>s em e- possibly, will spend mu~h of the it David G. Hayner, M:yron G. Hoff- serve here tonight at it~ annual lives in touch vvith them., need a man, Maxwell R. Kleeman, Gilbert: An.chor Day dinner to celebrate the <Continued on Page 3) (Continued on Page 3) arrival of the Pilgrims· at Pmvince- Baker at St .. Andrews Coaches Co-Ed to\'n Mru;s. Lacrosse; Awaits December Exams <?>------------------------------ Dr. Bm·ges Johnson has an- that there would be need for t.he d th t th English St aff By ROBERT C. WA.L'I:'ER, Jr. nounce a e s. R. 0. signs the weekend of De- Freddy Wyatt's beloved lacrosse is without advantages 'When a be- Ilr. Fox, in his address before tll.is annual gathering of the de- sc€nd.ants of New Englanders. stressed the fact that their New ·England tradition \continues to in- £pire faith, mold thought and steady qction in our American scheme of life, voted to ask the English Staff of cerrtber 3 thl'OUgh 6 . Ticlrets will Upon seeing the pleasant vision Williams· College to permit a post- be on sale beginning Monday, of Andrew Dry burgh moving about ponement of the r·eturn visit on the November 29 • the campus in the traditional kilt part of English majors and mem- An attractive booklet stating the of his native highlands perhaps bers of the staff until ~fter the progt·am of Ue Mountebanks for you have been moved to puuse and holidays since great difficulty has this year has been mailed to pros- wonder of the wa.ys and sins of been encountered in finding a date 0 1 100 his counterparts in the fat· distant convenient for both .gr·oups at this pective theatre patrons. n Y · hills and bypaths of old Scotland. f th patrons will be accepted, since the However, even the most pictures- season o e year. Mountebanks wish to insure· ade- Tentative plans provide for one h st que of imaginations could hardly controversial topic for discussion quate seating space for t e· u- envisage the diverse aclivilies of d h b . . f · dents. Students, however, must Wallace Baker, '39, our :Present ex- an t e su mtsswn o Bpectmens reserve their seats on OT befo!'e of imaginative writing for common change student, which taltes in' criticism ft•om students of each in- Thursday, December 2 • to in:oure everything from coaching the coed stitution. having seats. lacrosse team to laughing at ex- This selies of roundtable discus- The women engaged to play in : aminations until December 10. sions was inaugutated some years \No More Peace!\ are Mat·ie Jal- Recent colllmunication.s from ago by the administration to facili- mer, as the angel; :Bal·bara un- Wally indicate that life in St. An- tate an exchange in ideas between ger as Rachel, daughter of Laban; d 1 ews is extremely 'healthy w.hen students of neighboring colleges. Ellen Dewey as Satah, R.nchel's judged from an acadetnlc point of Last fall, Williams sent a delega- nurse; and Mrs. Clallt M. Munget view. All classes are conducted un- tion to the Union College campus as president of the Married der the lecture system, with abso- for a Roundtable di~cussion on the Teacters Union. Jutely no recitations, and no ex- ~ubject, \Is There a Revival of the f\eilJ·O-l'S·-t 0 --Roevi'ew Boo}{ -:tminations antil mid-Dec~mber. It Romantic Movement in Present ~ is very simple to form in the Day Literature?\ Other round- mind's eye the picture of what tables have been conducted with Copies of the book \Yours to Baker refers to as the Scottish students from Amherst and Col- Ventur·e\ recently published b~ student's inclination to \let things gate. Robert R. Updegraff, friend of slide,\ and of Baker himself e:x- Dr. Jlourges Johnson also an- President ·Fox:, is to be submitted ploring the back-alleys of old St. nounced that he will visit Middle- to several members of the senior Andrews in his recently acquired bury College on Dec. 3 to join in a class for the put•pose of getting seven horsepowet·, t'Wo cylinder conference and discussioh with the their reactlons to this book which speed wagon under th€ lutelage of faculty and undergraduates in the treats of the future careers of col· Clark Beckett whom tnany will still field of English. lege graduates. remember; and wllo can at·gue that wildered Scottish lassie stands be- \On the one hand, there is the fore one, lacrosse stick in hand, self-reliance of Yankee ingenuity and murmurs, \I say, old chaWJl, ll.Zld Yankee energy. The Yankee cawn't you show me a bit how this v.ras a citizen, never a subject. He is done?\ looked to the Lord for heln, but his Certain rumors among Baker's ,contract clearly recognized that the fraternity brethren have it \bat Lord was likely to help only those plans are already afoot to organize :19'ho helped themselves. From the an afternoon tea club as soon as ,g:{)vernment 'as a benevolent patron Wally returns to instruct them ln he expected nothing. In fact, he had the latest continental customs In IEL healthy suspicion of any govem- afternoon tea sipping. And since :ntent seated at a distance.\ Wal!Y fears _he rna:y not ~e able to:: \On the other hand, he was ac- a?chmate himself to Un~o.n upon: customed to government at a co- hts retum .because of Ins deadiy:·aperation in which he bme an in- need of a btt of tea and calte come; dispensable part. He administered every aftetnoon fo~t-tblrtY:, :;uch, his land under community rules a plan .would be. ~:tUite f~as1ble. ..vhich he helped to make--a funda- .chemtstry, polttJcal sctence, and. :mental plecedent, we might say, for hts:tory are the subjects that Balter: :zoning. He administered his ec- da;tiY exposes hirnself to, and de-. ciesiastical and educational affairs sptte the faet t~at. they are lectur-e ill the same way. He represented ?o~rses, he instals th.at the che:n·: co-operative individualism, and co- tstt.y course W?Uhl mcl_ude tluee. operative individualism is Ameri- Umon c~urses 1 ~ -that fleld. ~he ca's answer to all challenges, two soctal ro~uscs, !tC declai~S. fascist communiBt or anarchist.\ are both very tnteresting, and ar~ ' really transforming him into quit~ As a special feature, ·the Ne'v a mltmed devil. England Society of Cleveland and Additional infonna tlon state~ the Westem Reserve invited the that the social lif~ is excellent, th~ ~raduates of Union College in the weather tel'l'ible, ond the .dorm.i· Cleveland area to attend the dinner tory maids very charming with so they too might hear Dr. Fox their helll~>h acGents. spea.lt tonight. countl'y team also announced to- day that Edward Wells of Pitts- burgh, Pa., had been elected cap- tain of the 1938 team at a meeti!hg of the squad yesterday to. repl~:~ce William Hawkes. Although he rately ca1·ries the ball, A-mazon has neverthele~s been outstanding in evet·y game this seaso11 because of his magnificent blocktng. He has served steadily in the. quartet back position since the -beginning of his fte~hmat1 year and this year has combined with Van Ladd to help the latter's phenomenal place kicking. His play in backing up the line was instr·umental in holding Williams to one touchdown and in stopping R. P. 1. He attended Mont Pleasant High School and is interested . in many campus actlvitietl. He is a meinber of the Student Council and was chairman of the sophomore disci- pline committee; last year. He, also play~ var·sity baseball and as a freshman played on football, ba~­ ketball, and baseball teams.· His fraternity is Phi Sigma Delta. Wells also rose to promine11ce as a sophomot·e when he .consist- ently t•an second to Bill Ha.,;ke and figure(i prominently in. vic- tories over Rochester and Middle- bury. He also was a regular point winner In the two mile event on the track team last year, He pre- par·ed for Union at Nutley, N. J., High School and is a member of Sigma Phi. He belonged to the sophomore discipline committee last year and has played with the Mou.ntebanlts. ----•a---- Mercersburg Alumni Organize Union Club G-raduates of Mercersburg Acad- emy attending Union recently or- ganized a Mercersburg Alumni Club and will hold their first din- ner zneeting Tuesday night, Novem- ber 23, in Hale House, according to Leslie R. Paffrath, '39, president of the new group. The purpose of the club, he said, was to continue friendships formed at Mercersburg, maintain active association with the school where they prep~red to enter Union, and to aid Incoming Mercersburg men to bridge the gap between prep school and col- lege, . Guests of honor at the first din- ner meeting will be Joseph Wheat- ley, college swimming coach, who coached Mercersburg swimming t<\ams to national fame, William Applegat•th, 1912 English Olympic sprint champion, who formerly was coach of track and field at M:ercersburg, and Cadman Hislop, Instructor in English, who attend- ed. Mercersburg. Members of the Mercersburg Club are, in addition to Paffrath, :r'homM Ralston, '40, David Light, 40; Clarence McCain, '41, Willard Malkan, '41, Noble :M:cCartney, '41, Kenneth McKenzie, '41. Glee Club Announces First Concrets of Yea1· Two concerts have been sche- dttled to open this year•s· season for the glee club. The first will be held in Chancellor's Hall at the Educational Building ln Albany, where the club, together with the colleg~ choir, will prese.nt Christ- mas music bef01·e the Co'n1ttmnity Choral Society on MondaY:, Dec- ember 13. The second trip is planned for January 15, when a joint concert will be held with the Skidmore Glee Club at $aratoga. The club will arrive in the afternoon, when they will be greeted by a reception and dinner after which the concert and dance will be held. Several numbers will probably be sung in conjunction with the Skidmore ~roup. · · ·

Page Two 4 Olnnrll ttttStS FOUNDI!D 1877 \A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ 1937 Member 1938 1=\ssociated CoUee,iate Press Distributor of Collee>iate Die;est REPREB&NTED fOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING B'l' National Advertising Service, Inc. Cu/lsgo p,,b/; .. JJer.s Represe1stative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y. C:HICA.GO - Broo:•\'H • l~\' I\ 0 1:'ELES • SAN FRANCISCO The official new\pap~r vf .the stu<lents of Union College. l'ulll•shed T\e\day and Friday>~ through· out the .L'Oilt:'ge yeLu, t.: :\t.t:-'i'l duriug Christmas and Spring rpc·t~~:-.es. Publication Offtl~e, Tht> l;az.t.'tte Pres~. 334 State Gt, S<'ht'I't\'I!HlY ~ \' , Tcl<•phmte 4-4141 Entered at the !5• lit.·l•--'l tady l'olit Office a::; ----------~S~e·~·u~u~d~L~l~'\\ ~~~~a~ll~~~~a~t~te~r---------­ Subscriplion prict> F1'w'e n·uts a copy; $3.00 a yeur; deliv~red anywhere 111 the United 8tnte~. illdttorial Ruom~. tillllm:tll H:tll, Un-iun Colkge Campu:s. 'relephunc, ~~..·hl!nt.•ctad~ 4_-0,_1_3_3. __ _ Senior Board Hyman A. Enzer ............... Editor-In-Chief 11 S S. S·••ulh Cullege-6·97£8 Robert H. Fe I guson .......... Managing Editor l'•i Up•ilun Huuse--4-8710 Julius J. Bundgus ................ News Editor 9 S. S. s.,uth Cullege-6-972S Henry D. Hartmann .......... Feature Editor· 7 U. G ll. -6·96~0 Carl R. Trahman ................ Sports Editor Kappa :::;,gnm llouse-4-~325 John H. Gilmour ............ Business Manager Delta Upo~ilou llouse--4-7922 Marvin M. Miller .. Associate Business Manager Kappa :o;u-4-7331 Alfred R. Seigle ........... Circulation Manager Kappa :o;u -4-7331 Junior Board A::lSUCIATE !i:DITOHS Herbert 0. Fox 1\ulJel'l A. Saar FrederiC\k \V. Hequ~mhn111g Jerunte Snlith H. Wyman Hitehcm·k Edward C. H~turt>k Robert C. Walter, Jr. Issue Editor Robert C. Walter, Jt·. Assistants THE CONCORDIENSlS, T1UESDAY, NOVEl\IBER 23, 1937 ] ,,_.;;N=ex;;;;;t ;;;;;:;;;;;:e;;;;;~;;;;,:;;;;;rd;;;~;;;':;;;;;':C;;;:;;;;;~d;;;~o;;;;;x;;;P;;;;;ub;;;;;li;;;:c 0 :::;!~ going to have tJ;le exc_e~tionally VV·ith this. ~olumn we break a 1 ci:J. In fact, many now on t~e rare and interestmg pt'Ivtlege of rcsoluflon maae at the beginning .council were defeated by deals m hearing one of the greatest works· of the year. At that time we made the above named. contests .. Cons~- ·of ·a:ll music interpl eted by tw<J a pledg<' to write comment that· quently, they realized that If the~r 1 en owned conductors, directing.two was \.newsy but not nasty.\ ln: iiHerests were to be prott.>cted this ·of .(he great orchestlas of the other· wm~. we wer·e not .going to. year, deals must be .eliminated .. wotld. This mastet•piece is the criticise. If anything happened we These surplise elections a·r e just magnificent Symphony ,In D Minor d·idn't. lilte we were going to the thing! In fact, they are the per- of Cesar Franck, which was ignox·e it, a;1d thus keep everybody feet solution to the problem! First, played here last winter by At·tm·o happy. so .far this year we have they prevent any persons or. groups. !todzinski and the Cleveland kept our ~o~o>solution. Anytime we outs~d~ t~e St.udent Councrl from Orchestra. The new N. B. C. couldn:t bring ourself around to parttctpatmg .rn a deaL .Second,. Symphony under .the baton of saying \yes we kept quiet. Student Council members, by know-, Pier,re Munteaux will play it over J u 5 t In Jest not accepted as true to the form required by· I the ::.-;lndent editors, The Ido} started to de- ! cline. lt was removed from the composition class and made an all-college pul.Jlication. The edi- tors and contributors, however, continued to consider the magazine in the same light as before--that it was purely a literary pul.Jli- eation. Interest in The Idol as an all-college magazine rmtm·a\.ly lag.ged. The magazine was dead to almost evexyone on th.e campus, except the edito1·s, theit· intimate friends and those :;t udents aHd facU'lty men who tried to ing when the elections are coming.: a .nat 1 ·on-w1 ·cte hookup Satur·day And' it was at this point that. h t th we rnade our mistake. \We fell in a·t·e able to set t e s age a~ · ey evening at 10 o'clock, and Sunday Y k please! Good stuff, eh, wot · ' at 3 o'cloc·k John Bn\br'rolll. will app~:ar. step with everybody else. <JU now y t d 'th ..,. that's one of the main things \ es, we were connec .e wr ; conduct the New York Philhar- 1 l tl t t d 1 . It d · this one! • ~ mon1'c 1·n t·ht's symphony 1'n a Co- \as yE>nr 1e cons an ec me resu e 111 w1ong with 'ole Union this year. .. · guess the date the Im.tgazine would finally Everyi>ody-f.rom the head men f Iumbia broadcast. down thtough the faculty, the stu- Union's better professors ran for N1> doubt both conductors will the Publi·cationo> Board's recotnmending to ln the last city election, one a ' the Sludent Council the abol.ition of The dents and their publications, is too office. Totally unsubstantiated, the render g()od readings ·of thi& score Idol. Such action was taken. As a student -busy saying \yes.\ One never \red-herring\ was employed to de- but it wHI be both interesting and hean ot· reads a dissenting opin- feat him. Now, the Communist-cry, a challenge to one's p1 owess as a publication The Idol had failed to be of in- ion. At f·irst glance one is im- when used by professional politi- listener to compa~e the two per- pnssed with the ·harmony - the cians to gain office, is almost un- ~ormances. tet·est to stud.ents. singuiar·it::Y of thought-that char- derstandable. When disseminated Any gt\eat pie.ce of music has 1 \1 • · f Tl ld d acterlz:es our little family. Baloney! b,. General Electric \intellects\ las. one feature in common with a - us a ou ·every m m 0 · it was in thi~ particular election) ·beautiful mosaic-each tiny frag- te nol'Q'alllzatwn o n; · ol was un. er- J t b t e ber r the \ taken by hvo different groups of students .. familr is so very polite or politic it is almost understandable in view ment adheres to evety other to that he refuses to say what he of their general ignorance. But blend into a great scheme collec- One group represented the old-.style literary thin.J[s. * , when fellow college professox·s, men tlvely to paint a solid picture or editors who were willing to compromise in who a1 e supposed to be educated, portray a related train of thought. l · h · I 'bl Take the Student Council, for in- become parties to such a cam- This was never more t1·ue than in ma 0 ng 1 C magazme as popu ar as pOSSl e stancf\. paign, it's time to give up. These the Symphony In D Minor. Franck and still retain ~ome or its former literarY: N'ow we happen to know that same gentlemen would not .pro- uses a great wealth of thematic th s d c '1 d D · claim a theory without due ~ci- material but upon close observa- diunitv. The other O'l'OUP represented an. e tu ent · ounct · un. er ay, IS entific .procedure and investiga· ti.on it is found tha. t every theme \' · \' . work1ng very hard trymg to .put entil't!ly different viewpoint; to make The. in a new form of student govern- lion in their laboratories. Yet, in Is the ()Utgi·owth or vadation of ld l l t 1 • ll ll . T·h . d't rnent. Fine, a very worthy under- this case they believed without in- one of the major themes. These o cnmp e e) a -co ·ege. at meant e 1 - taking; we wish them success.· vestigating; they proclaimed with- melodies do not confine them- . 1. d d. d · d. B t th f f t out knowing. Ignorami' selves each to one movement but mg uV stu ent e 1ton; an not \\Ttters an ' u · e new orm 0 gove;·nmen '' • • recur again and again thl'ough- . . '. . . . as pr·oposed calls for a different ~ohcttln~· contribUtiOns trom all members of method of selecting council mem- Need we mention the Idol? Yo1,1 out the work, making it one of the the Union Colleo·e family. bcrs. It calls for Iepre~e.n~atives sa:s i~. matter of record, however, qmu~~iteout;,to~~~~~s~fpam~~e:r ofw:rt= \' from all group>' and actrvrtles. In The Student Council l'eestablished The short, your athletes - now in al- let us say that we can think of ten. . . . , m1>st complete control of the coun-. only one woi·d to describe it- This composition is not only a Idol on the !Jas1s of the Interest lf not the ciJ .. will be pushPd aside in favor feeble. ,Don't get us ~rang no~. ;ymphony of absolute music but is of tnore rep1·esentative students. We don t blame the edt tor ar;d hrs ~!so, in a sense, a great tone-poem ,n·g·uments thus presented. The Publications. Board made another compromise and in- stalled a hoard which would put new life into Tlw Idol. The result was published thi.s week-end. N1>w here is what is bothering us:: board: Most of the.m were w 1 t.hout · of .a man's soul. At all times ho-w ca.n we expect the present, expenence-as then· product Ill us- Franck pol trays himself a aim- members <Jf the council to vote· trates. The make-up of the maga- ple, lovable, and at the same time themselves out of a job? And if the' zine. wa:' especially p~or. Upon pr•ofoundly religious man. The first ne-w plan of student government is' readn~g It, on~ gets the -ImpressiOn movement opens with an awesome to be at all successful, that is what' th.at It was JUSt slaJ?ped t.ogether theme in the low basses that latex· must tske place. Will they?-• With no thought berng grven _to proves to be the germ from which Don't be foolish' : the general appearance of the Ill- the symphony springs. This mel- About these surprise elections' dividual page. . , ody epitomizes the entreaty to The pui·]JOse is, we are told, is to. Well, now the publrc.atlons board heaven of a frantically bewildered eliminate \deals.\ Especially neu-' can meet ~nd thrash It out agam, maa: \Must it be? Must it be?\ . . as they drd last year. And then 0 d Lawrence Pellettier Russell Deyo Htihert Saaf It exemplifies the confus·ion which has en- sued from conflicting· viewpoints as to what The Idol should be. tral (and c:rt~lll fr·ater~uty) ~eals. Minerva's mouthpieces l Larrabee · · ver an over in infinite varia- You see. th1s 1s all a d1rect result and Johnson) will come forth with tions this question is asked until of last ypar's up perc lass e:ections .. an~ idea which will be put into at least It is answered by a gloi·i- NamPiy 111. the Prom elect 10 n; 12), effect with probably the same dis-. ous ethereal passage which seems the Junior class c!Pction•; i3l the astei·ous results as we find in oux· to t·eflect the man's gi·eat faith in Senior class election. Deals worked: present IdoL God. These themes return many Ueorge Peck We feel that The Idol cannot exist as a Tuesday. November 23, 1937 publication worthy of L'nion College if it in- tends to pander to the interests of the many and yet try to stretch an appealing- hand to times in as many variation until pel'fpctl)' in these polls to put in Night, friends, 1t last the faith theme is eclipsed m.en not now in power on the coun- Uncle Willy. by the .portentous question: \Must INTRACOLLEGIATE the so-called litemry intelligensia. Whether the frivolity of ::;electing \a sweetheart of the ball\ by the younger mem- bers of the faculty and administrative staffs of Union College will hinder the intellectual and cultural development of the college is not the principal point to be cono>idered in the first all-colleg.e danr:t' which i::; taking place tomorrow night. If the student body insists upon an all- college publication the principal function of II I' .'• the editors should be to edit and solicit ma- • M 0 T I 0 N terial. \Vl'iting should be left mostly to the '-============- artists in special fields. That would he a col- Whether you noticed or not, we NOTES ON OUR CONTEMPORARIES A f\1 e which swept North Hall at Slippe1·y Roc!< College sent 167 co- eds scantily clad out into earlr morning cold. No one was injured. but damage totaled about $400,0()0. We have only the h · ghest praise for the motives implied and congratulations for the effidency with which they m·e ul'ing carried out. To the many couples who are expf'Cted to dance in the Alumni Gymnasium tomorrow night we give our warmest greetings and thanks for taking part in this all-college event_ The Student Council hopes in the future to conduct similar dances, informal as well as formal. The time and energy spent by one David Yunich, with the support of the Coun- cil, is indicative of an unselfi::;h desire to benefit the college socially. We welcome with pride an innovation which will make us more eonseious of the meaning of \inter frater- nity.'' 1927-THE IDOL-1937 Ten years ago the first issue of The Idol f.eatured an article on Tolstoi and his art. As a college magazine its contents were typi- fied by the best of the literary efforts which were being written at the time. It was a dis- tinctive publication, wid.ely read in other col- leges and in Union was respected if not ac- cepted as a magazine that \had something.\ The fh·st five years were healthy, vigorous ones in the literary sense. The publication nevet• purported to be anything else. Its readers were of course limited. suffered last time fl·om a slight leg·e publication. But if we want a magazin~ case of omission. We were exhort- that purports to be litet·ary and nothing- else 1•<1 to whittle the column down so that eager public might !mow mol€ let us put it under the continuing supervision a..bout the Schenectady Symphony. of the department of literature. T'h~ 1:esult was a half-inch column which sorne officious little coprolite \V e mark with approval some of the elected to suppress. Therefore, out t . 1 · h' · of pur\e spite we take pleasure in ar lC es ll1 t IS recent tssue, and comrnend pi•inting the review which should the editorial solicitation of faculty m-ticles. have appeared in last Friday's issue. To wit: Two freshmen at Loyola Univer- sity have identical names~~Leonard F1 ancis Kowalski. They are both taking premedical courses, are en- rolled in the same classes, use the same locker. write similarly and received the same grades on the entrance tests. They are not re- lated. But dthel' give us Tolstoi, or intelligently- T'he 11 icture, dears, is \\ry l>ad. wt·it ten articles on college life and its seculm· T'he vaudeville is great.. h 'rhe editO>r's a yellow cad. t ought. Ring Cr6sby's at the ~tate. The earnestness with which the present * • • d · h l' d 1 1 As if 'l'ltl'> Bride Wore Red hadn't e ltOl'S ave app re t 1emse ves to theii· task damaged playwright Molnar's rep- gives us hope that their first inexperienced • uta.tion enough, MGM has brewed ff . . '11 t, ff · . · a sizeable brainstorm out of his e 01 t WI ue o ·set by their future tssues-! Great ·Love and re-titled it Double We see in this sincere desire to publish a: ~eddi.ng. Wacky from start to fin- Ish. ·It has several very good rna- worthy Idol the gel'm of a good publication in: tnenta, but Jacks the consistent the futm·e We hope that we can help hy om· pace es~en~ial to grade A .comedy. · 'The cnt!cxsm that fits 1t most criticism. snugly, it seems to us, is that of Frank Nugent of the New York Times. Said Mr. Nugent: \It's a · case of too many cuckoos. spoil the broth\ IMPRACTICAL JOKES There would be something very funny, in the collegiate sort of way, about the puerile practical jokes which have been perpetrated upon membe1·s of the faculty if it weren't fm the fact that we must editorialize about it. When the so-called pranks of colleg·e men (ot· should the local mischief-makers be blamed) reach the point where the college paper must take editorial action to reprimand would-be jokers-the situation is usually_ in its harmless stages. · William Powell, Florence Rice and Jessie Ralph do well enoug'h, but Myrna Loy (God forgive us for criticizing her!) seems a bit awk- ward. Night Club Scandal wasn't bad. It bega.n with a murder, wound through the usual maze of ever- dense, and ended up with the cul- pt·it on the way to the jug. Hack- neyed? No. You see, the murdere1· is t•evealed In the very first scene, and the suspense revolves about the failure of the police to pin the crime on the guilty bosom. There at·e a couple of nice blunders in the plot that we'll leave you to figure out. Lynne Overman, Louise Campbell, Char·les Bickford. Also ra.n: John Barrymore. If you'll take special notice of the doctor who goes off to a ban- quet \vith the murderer, you may recognize Leona,rd Willey, who played in the :Mohawk Drama Fes- tival two seasons ago. .. * * For the benefit of those who will' The state of Pennsylvania is looldng for college men to fill some of the 500 vacancies in the motor police force. \There is quite a good future in this force for young col- lege men,\ said Commissioner Percy W. Foote. Four Univet·sity of Toledo foot- ball players are \washermen\, .but they're not sissies. To earn their way thwugh school, they do the laundry for the varsity team and the gymnasium. Their normal week's wash is 1000 towels and 200 jerseys. it be?\ The second movement is famous for the overpowering sadness and be-auty of the opening mood. The English horn plays a plaintive meldoy that again suggests the weary. puzzled man that was F1·anck seeking spiritual guidance. Although this mood is sometimes intenupted by more happy phrases, which anticipate the triumphant finale of the symphony, the pre.vall- ing tenor of the movement is one of wistful longing. The last movement, after a joy· ous introduction, recalls a.ll of the themes of the preceding sections. F'rom this .point on a great strug- gle ensues between the composer's grief, as suggested by the sad theme of the second movement, his suppliant doubt, the \question\ motif, and his tremendous faith,. as embodied in the \faith\ motif of the first movement. As this strug- gle grows wilder the questionin~ them~ . is eclipsed at last by & magnrftcent expression of religious ecstasy from which the man. emerges triumphant, thus con- cluding a masterpiece of music rich: in devotional expression, Imagina- tion, emotion, and sheer awesome beauty. AT THANKSGIVING ~ THE FAMOUS 1MtnJ taMnt~u CANDIE~ As part of the advanced composition class of Professor Herrick the magazine thrived and published those articles and stories whieh were representative of the best type of prose and poetry in a definite field. In 1933 wh.en The Iconoclast was issued by some of the more energetic writers who we1·e However, we point with all g,eriousness to a telephoned joke which had the state AP and UP wires burning to discover whether Dr. Fox was injured in an automollile acci-. rlen t Saturday night. There might be some humor in practical jok.es. But we doubt it after the recent brain 7 storms which have swept the campu~. \Lay in town during the Thanks- giving vacation, we might mention that PrisO>ner of .Zenda will be play- hiP\ at the State. Prisoner of Zenda, with the beauteous, handsome, prett::v, lovely, graceful, elegapt, ex- quisite, comely, flowerlike, delicate, dainty, enchanting Madeleine Car- roll. 465 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Red Shov College With s AlthOl t~rnitiee night, t call ca;r: be .bettE to Mr. charge \The wtro h~ indicati exis.ting Mr. En the fr whose crease( tions b of last Last missin: Phi, l< Lambe Kappa Chi, a1 Alpl tl'.e f contri Delta SigmE The comtr Paffr Nortl whicl year. SouU more year. Gym: Fr: since Cone Phi, De it: $6.20 $5; $5.5C Dwc van Frru R the Tho beir ora: $8; ren anc $15 Da Bu '] the En

public is lptionally vilege of >St works· by tw<> >cting.two of the is the D Minm· ich was >Y Ar·tUl·o L:leveland I. K C. baton of cy it over Saturday .d Sunday irolli will Philhar- in a Co- ctms will this score 3sting and wess as a two per- music has n with a tiny frag- other to >me collec- picture or lf thought. ue than in .or. Franck f thematic .e obser·va- rery theme aliation of nes. These 'ine them- rement but n through- one of the ples of ex- evet• wl'it- not only a mslc but is l tone-poem all times elf a sim- sar.ne time n. The first Ln awesome s that later· from which . This mel- enbeaty to · bewildered :ust it be?\ 'inite varia· asked until by a glori- vhich seems ·eat faith In eturn many rlation until e is eel! psed 3tion: \Must 1t is famous sadness and r mood. The a plaintive mggests the that was tal guidance. .s sometimes tppy phrases, triumphant •, the prevail- 3ment is one after· a joy- lis all of the ling sections. great sh·ug- te composer's by the sad lOVilment, his e \question 11 endous falth,. Lith\ motif of: ~s this strug- l questioning: t l!l.ilt by (1,. n of religious h the mara: , thus con- of r.nusic rich: :ion, lr.nagina- leer aweso.me THE CONCORDIENSTS, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, f937 Page Three Red Cross Returas Show 20()/o Increase Bar1tch to Visit Campus; Will Speak in. Assembly As Chapel Lets Out Pasture-Dwellers Leave As Cold Weather Arrives AU .. Coilege Dance To Pa.ck Big Crowd College Totali Reaches $275 With Several Unreported; Spirit Commended .ALthough 1;eports from nine .fra- ternities were still missing: last night, the annual Red Cross rolL call' campaign on the eamplls will ' be better than last year according to Mr. Milton M. Enzer wh<» ·is ·in ' charge of the college canvass. · \The response .from the students who have already contributed is: indicative of .a, tine public ·spirit exis.ting a111ong Union \:;ollege. men,\ · Mr. Enzer paid> in an.nouncing that the fraternities and do1Initories whose 1·eports are in ha-ve in- . crease<;!. their Red C1•oss conu:ibu-: tions by more than 20()% ovoei· that of last year. Last night rej}Orte we1 e still missing from )3eta 'l\heta Pi, Delta, Phi Kappa .Alpha, Kappa i:ligma, L~bda Chi .Alpha, r-hi Sigma; Kappa, Sigma Chi, Theta Delta Chi, and Theta. Nu Epsilon. Alplm Delts Lead Alpha Delta Phi at present leads ti:e fvatemities with the largest contribution, •$18. Phi Gamma Bernard M. •Baruch, inter- .national banker and authority an economics and the 1937 Eono!'ary Cha:ncel!Dr of Union College, will ·be on the campus for two days, Tuesday and. Wednesday, November 30 and December 1, for:- a series of roundtable discussions, a daily assembly talk ·iThui·sdayl and to spealt before one of the classes in the social studies, President Fox: announced, Mr. I!aruch hrs been ece>- nomic adviser to Presidents Wilson, Harding, Coolidge, Hoo- ver and RoosEvelt. His addres.s at the Union College com· I\'encerrent re~ulted in national discussion which is stoll go!n.g on because his predict.ions have been re::llzed. Prompt ld~l Proves Haste Makes Waste Unusual Punettmlity Causes Faulty Coord;nation Of Fak Material Delta is second wHh $17.25, and Uy HENJRY M. SEIDER. Sigma Phi, is third with $15.:10. Fwm a purely joumalistic stand· The advent of sn<>w a.:nd frost on the Union College campus caused the exodus of fourteen very much publicized campus citizens, the sheep. The destination of the ban- ished sheep is a farm three milEs east of the Edison Club Golf Course. Friday was the day on which the sheep left. They were trans- ported to their new surrou.nd- ings by a truck, after they were taken bodily one by one from the field by two strong men. .267 on Dean's List For First Quarter ('Coriti·nued from Page 11· C. Kopf, Marvin P. Lazarus, Law- ' ence V. Pellettier, Jr., Leonard A. Perless, Jacob Rabinowitz, Thomas H. Ralston, Marvin Rosen, Wil- Ham H. Schwab, Harry G. Slllock, Jr .. Isadore M. Sorkin, Matthew S. Tyborowski, Donald J. Wait, Ed- ward R. Wittemeier. BS in Civil Engineering: .Jay P. Dayton, Lawis W. Hallenbeck, Ansell E. Sweet. . BS in Electrical Engineering:· Donald P. Campbell, Louis J. Carr, Jr., Francis Dunigan, Jr., Edward C. Ga.gen, Charles H. Guiles, .John A. Kilcoin, Jr., Alden F. Mullins, John N. Phillios, George E. Schall, Jr. - Fraternities Name Guests; Interest Centers About '.&.t:lle' Choice tContin.ued frem Pags 1) Dowell, Holyoke; Rosemary Han- lon, Albany; Margaret Ryan, Sche- nectady; Gwendolyn Fox, Schenec- tady; Marg:avet Garahan, Schenec- tady; Ba1·1> rura Riemer, Connecti- cut State College; and Mary Grace White of Albany. The guests of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity will be the Misses Evelyn Con.nolly, Schenectady; Ann Sanford; ;Schenectady; Jean Le· Fevre, Schenectady; Marjorie Den· man, Dellnar; Betty Bond, Sche- nectady; and Lydia Bond of Sche· nectady. More Guests The dormitories were especially point the outstanding characteristic commended by Mr_ Enzer_ Leslie of the present, Thanksgiving, issue Paffrath '39, ·roll call worker in of the Idol is the fact that it de- North College collected $13.10 .fled all recent. precedent by ap..pear- which is 30()% better than last ing precisely en schedule. But from year- Fred A.. Wyatt, woTker for a critical point of view the prime South College turned in. $11.85, factor is the editorial hodge-podge more than '200% bette rtllan last .produced by too much emphasis on year. M<>rtimer R<>bbins ·o;f Old this very same prompt appearance_ Gymn Dorm tux·ned in $3.73. Owing to tl:te necessity of gEtting The exodus from daily assembly as seen from the IWI'Ch. of BS in Chemistry: Alfred H. Cas€, Warren DeSorbo, Walter A. Fallon, Jr., Edwa.rd R. Kane, Paul L. Merz, Sherman W. Parry, Edward Tajkowski, Charles D. Underwood. The g-uests of the Phi Sigma Delat fraternity will be the Misses Marjorie Hatkoff, Albany; Nancy Rose, Albany Business College; EE)telle S.Om.mers, Albany State Teachers College; Helen Rubin, Albany :!State Teachers College; Thelma Siegel, Albany Business College; Sally Krill, Bingha111ton; Thelma Siegel, Albany in! ;,RaCi Elaine Erstein, Schenectady; Betty Manness.. Schenectady; Harriet Scheinzert, Schenectady; Sylvia Weiss, State Teachers. College; Charlotte Rivlin, Schenectady; Rose Jacobs, Schenectady; and Hilda Ma.nn of New York. WM•hburn Uall. -Photo by Edward Case, '41 The guests of the Psi Upsilon frate:rnity will be the Misses Jean Adam~, Auburn; Barbara Munger, Schenectady; Fa.y Woodworth, Mamar(Jmeck; and Mary Dawson of Schenectady. Classmates Meet Again On Sli.ip Porto Rico Bound Fraternities who have reported certain proportions of the <lntire \The world is a small place after. since the last announceme;nt in the magazine to press at certain times,· all.\ So goes the famous .parable Concordiensis are: .Alpll;a Delta about one fcurth of the editorial· and will be vouched for by two Phi, Robert Shephard, ;lllB; Phi . pages exclusive of advertisements members of !he class of 1937: Delta. Theta, Harry B. Myers, is made up of syndicated Jlllers, George Witbeck and \Bud\ Loiselle $6.2(); Kappa Nu, .Alfred R. Seigle, 'having little or no application to who met each other while aboard $5· Psi Upsilon, William Hawkes, Union studentS: The remnant o{ the same boat, t 1 eac1ed for the same· $5:5(); Phi Sigma Delta, Marvin: the issue shows alL too pla.inly a destination, and travelling for the. Dwore, $5.5(}; Delta Chi, Howard· hurried effect .produced b~ the same purpose. Van Keuren, $5.85; Pyrarnid Club, exigencies o.f deadlines. The typo- These two men, although not Frank L, :Moore, $2.50, graphical and artistic make-up, very well acquainted with each Reports :from all departments of while containing much tbat is other during their undergraduate the college have now been received. potentially excellent, revea.Js un- days at \The College on ~he Hill,\ Those reporting since la.st Friday studied ince>nsistencies, a ge:nerally were overjoyed at meetmg each being physics. and psychcl<>gy lab-. thrown-together appearance. other on their way to Porto Rico oratories, Dr. ]liverett W. Thatcher, Stevenson Is Artist where both have been employed as $8: Gymnasium, Arthur C. Law- teachers. In a .letter to Fred Wyatt, renee, $11; Bailey Hall, :Language The list of contributors is led· Loiselle reports: \We didn't know and Literature, Godman Hislo}l, by Douglas Stevenson, '39, W~~ith an each other vety well in college but $15.; Biology Hall, Dr. Ernest E. attractive cover-illustration, two we made up for lost time on the Dale, $5; and Library, Mrs. Marion amusing cartoons, and a fairly in- voya.ge.\ Buell, $6. triguing ·fa.nta.sy-satire on tlte New Their tie of friendship was The Red Cr()ss contributions for Deal. Lon Barringer, '39 tells of an strengthened by their Alma Mate:·, the campus now total $273.83, M:r. \Episode in !be Park\ with a great which was the subject of their Enzer said. deal of skill and a great deal of reminiscences, while they were A Pre-viLe of Professor:;' Choice in Beauty Contest trite embellishment. Ben Rathbun. among strangers and strange sur- '39, has the best written feature, roundings. a discussion <lf small college foot- From :Loiselle's Jetter, it has been ball, which alone of all -c:ontribu- learned that since their arrival in tions to the Idol possesses the de- Porto Rico, the two Union gradl;l- sired balance between popularity ates are once again separated, thts and litera:ry merit. An innovation, time by only fifty miles, b\lt because the article on \The Anatomy of the the roads and means of travel ai\e Infinite\ by faculty metnber Dr. so poor that a full day is required Peter L Wold, is not l<lo success- to cover the ilistance, they have ;not ful, mainly because of Dr. Wold:s seen each other since their ship indecision between the .pedanhc docked, \Bud\ also reports that and the {)andering approach to his his students are rather difficult to readers on this very interesting teach since they never practice topic. It is, however, a. worthwhile theil· English. outside of the class experiment. Louis C. Maples, '38, room. He is giving English lessons contributes three uniformly divert- to the native teachers twice a ing short. features on art, journa- month. lism and the trailer. ~.. Russell Dey~, '40, Robert H. Sim:mons, '39, A postal ~ard from Witbeck to and La-wrence Hennessey, '38, Mr. Wyatt telis that he is located round out the roster. at Jayuga. in the mountains, and that he enjoys the tropical climate The only poetry is a syndicated very much. gushing about candid cacneras and ___ 0 , __ _ W.ho wlll be the \Sweetheart of the Bali ?\ With such a pack of wolves as the Messrs Hislop, Ro- tundo, Wyatt, ~ elson, Enzer, Nitch- ruan and Manheim acting in an official capacity as judg;;es the face that fills the outlines of th:e above sketch should be tn()st interesting, even when considered from an academic :Point of view. And when the boys named above- forget the academic point of viEW :foi\ an eve- ning who can tell what the result will be. What's your guess.? a rhythmic fragment by Henry M. Seider, '3&. 'fhe less ·said the better. A profit all.d loss statement and triaL-balance on the wbole issue would ftlld the Idol in the red, but with strcng prospects of improving as its editors gain in time, ex- perience, all.d efficienc;:y. It was hardly to be expecte<i that a practically new undertalt~ng, rep- resenting a virtual revolution from past U:oion College litemry publi- cations would be in Its inaugura- tion a;,_ything less than slightly inept. Felinie Gonzales See$ First Snow As Light Fall Decends on Cctmpus By JAMES TWINING RaPle as tl1ose in the United States Saturday's snowfall, perhll.'PS dis· and f/rj> boys all t!now about appointing t() man:Y, was new to sleighs an~-- 'Santa Claus,\ Feli- Feliclano Gonzalel':, Porto Rirl:.n :~iar.:.c .explained, \but I could student at Union College, Never never malle them l'ealize what a before in his life had he seen snow wonderful thing the sne>w is.\ and nothing he h.ad heard could Having bad his fb·st snowball compare with the :fact that he fight outside Old Gym Dorm, could actually hold It in his hand. Gonzalez told of the snowball \In my country we h.ave much fights of Porto Rico. They take rain and often huvrieanes, but place usually during earnivals, sub- nothing as wonder:f)ll as this which stituting: white ·Confetti for snow. turns the world white. I would like The cnly handicap in this system to see a great blizzard, one which is tb.e fa.ct that co'!lfetti doesn't would cover 1\Ve~yihing with. many ·melt as sncw does. feet of snow,'' Gonzalez said after Feliciano is anxio1.1sly awaiting seeing It for the first time. the heavy snows of January and Saratoga is the farthest north February, but has decided that he Feline has ever been and, al- is decidedly lacking in the proper though he once bEfe>re visited New clothes which will ·be necessary York City li.nd l?hila.delphia, it wa.S when this snow coDJes. Not hav- in the summer; s~ be noticed little ing bee;n warned of :any such over- difference from Porto Rico as far night miracle, his next new experi- as the weather was coneerned. ence w:ill no doubt be the .purchas- \Jn Ea.n Juan, my home, all the ing of heavy clothe.s for the first traditions of Christmas are the time In his life, Dr~ Holmes Upholds Plato's Philosophy Sunday, No.v. 21 - \Developing hostilities among nations to de- stroy our customers in order to improve our business is one of those inexplicable absurdities of human intelligence,\ declared Dr. Jesse H. Holmes, professor of phi- losophy at Swarthmore College in his address this morning at the C<Jllege Chapel Services. \Goodness said Dr. Holmes, \bas to do with our human rela- tions and making ourselves effec- ti¥e by malting ourselves go()d, \In ou1· relaticms with other be- ings we have assumed loyalties to groups al!-d thereby have def<aated the broader purpose of \goodness.! \Our narrow groups, with de- fined limits to human understa.nd- ing, have resulted in failure to ap- preciate our fellow citizens in all parts of the world.\ Using Plato's definition of the biggest purposes of life as the search for Truth, Beauty and Good- ness, he explained that for the first. time men are being confused be- cause of the inadequacy of words to convey rneanint\s. There are no ~wo people who will get the same interpretation out of a phrase. The notion that anyone can get fi:ttality in phrases is absurd. We are every trying to cast into lan- guages the capacity of understand. ing. We must keep ourselves alive to those great aims in life. We must choose between our heredity from che dust and the heredity of the creator, tpe latter of which makes us everlastingly uncontent and makes us the citizen of th.e fu- ture, BS in Physics: Everett M. Haf- ner. Class of 1939 Inaugurate New Library Course Bachelor of Arts: Clayton H. {Continued from Page 1) Adams, W. Vaughan Alexander, special degree of technique, a tech- Jr., Lon H. Barringer, George J. nical understanding whose early Bernadt, Albert G. Borden, Jr., acquirement would save them much John Brand, Walter E. Burke, Bar- frustration. nard F. CarrolL, Harlan G. Carson, \The librarian of Union• College, Joseph Clifford, Dominick DeLisa, in introducing his systematic Marvin Dwore, Ellis P. Eisenstein, course in bibliography for seniors James E. Faulkner, Jr., Herbert 0. who expect to go to graduate in- Fox, Henry Glassman, .Arby A. The Union Chapter of the Kappa Alpha Society is holding a. formal dance 'IV'ednesday evening under the chairmanship of John C. Nott '38. Music Will be providEd by Gordie Randall and his band, and the chaperones will be Dr. and Mrs. Robert Abbett, Mr. an-d Mrs. Gilbert Parker, and Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Hutchins. stitutions in the universities, has Halpern, John J. Hardiman, George 'Kaps' Guests surely given them an initial ad- P. Bart, II, Paul S. Humphrey, Guests of the chapter include: vantage which is bound to show Robert W. Imrie, Francis Juracka, Josephine Sutton, Richmond, Va., later in their special scholarly Bernard S. Krause, Robert E. Lam- Sweetbriar College, wit h Arthur worl~. It marks a step, we think, berson, Melvin D. Lavender, Max Lawrence; Laurlne Walker, Bart- in the realization that 'library Len, Stanley R. Liebman, John J. ford, Conn., Russell Sage, with training' sh<>uld not be confined Morrison, Jr., Anthony W. Nar- Daniel Morris; Nancy Houston, to the staff, but should he extend- dacd, Irving J. Nelick, Peter S. Troy, Sarah Lawrence, with Boich- ed as fully as possible to the stu- Owens, Louis E. Page, Jr., Benja- ard :Balch; Ann Holroyd, 'l'roy, dents.\ min Rathbun, Jr., Edward C. Russell Sage, with Bradford Hast- Mr. Webb explained that \it Ls Retartyk, Myer Ries, William C. ings; ·Bobby Weaver, Jacksonville, rather a new departure to offer a Robbins, Frank Saldel, Donald Fla., Smith, with Howard Thomp- course planned especially for the Schron, Bernard A.. Shapero, Jesse son; .~arolyn Glock, Washington., student who is going to graduate R. Sherman, Jerome Smith, Hubert D. C., Chevy Chase School, with school. In many places courses A. Squire, T. Douglas 0. Stevenson, Foster Brown; Payneth McCor- are given in the 'use of the library' David G. Taft, Edward D. Thorn- mick, E. Setauket, L. I.. Bryn both to students in high school, son, Kenneth B. ·VandeMark, Rob- Mawr, wit~ Henry Clay; Mar- and to freshmen and sophomores ert C. Walter, Jr., Robert C. War- garet Patterson, Richmond, Va., in colleges, including Union, but ne.r, G. Tomer C. Way, David L. Vassar-, with Frederick Aichards; these courses are quite elementary, Yunich, Irving Zweig. Ed!tll Beale, New York, Vassar, and there is Little evidence that BS in Oivel Engineering: Doug- with. Richard BI\ickley; Elanore they in any way fit a student to las K. Blue, Philip Duchscherer, Ward, Shaker Heights, Ohio, with meet the bibliographic problems of Sumner B. Irish, Fred Townsend. Robert Tanner; Katherine Rock- advanced scholarship. The new BS in Electrical EDginee~dng: hill, Great Bart?ington, Mass., course at Union will at least give Tbomas A. Burke, Jr., Willialll Sarah Lawrence, with Terry Ross; the student sufficient knowledge Hodges, Frank Mele, Reuben Mer- Charlotte Ochs, Kalamazoo, Mich., to meet a bibliographic problem chant, William Muirhead, Willia111 Uni-ve-rsity of Hawaii, with H. K. with confidence although he will T.B~h~:~emistry: . Raymond W. V. 'J.'ompkins. still need much training in grad- Barclay, J. Bert Curle•r, David W. The guests of the Kappa Nu fra- uate courses to enable him to con- Godfrey, Renato C. Po'matti, How- ternity will be: Florence Shapera, th e d anced nroblems\ Bryant School, with David Yunich; quer e mor a v \' · a.rd E. Sheffer,· Louis. W. Thomp- Not more than ten or twelve stu- son, Jr., Herbert F. Zuhr. 'Beatrice Landress, Bryant School, d t 'II b d 'tt d t th w with Ellis Eisenstein Jean IDl- en s WI e a ml e 0 e ne \'S m· Physina •• John T, Mengel, l 'b h · se be- .., ~ mS-11, Barnard, with Alfred Siegel; 1 rary researc senunar cour Frank L. Moore, Jr. a1 t 1 If f 't 'll con Rutta. Brinn, Albany, with Arby cause mos J.a o 1 Wl - Class of 1938 · t · - d. 'd 1 1 truct'on and HaJn.ern ·, Joan Charles, Tarrytown, SIS tn 1n lVI ua ns 1 Bachelor of Arts·. H. Laurence ' id if. b'b!' h' with Marvin Miller; Rose Simon, gu ance on a spec IC I lDgrap IC . .Achilles, Jr., Harold B. Ackerman, bl · th r· ld f c'al ·n Russell Sage, with Harrison Karp; pro em m e Ie· 0 spe 1 1 - Jr., Richard W. Angle, ·E-'-ond R. 1 'th th d t I.U.U Hannah Williams, Newpa. tz, WI terest to e stu en · Arundel!, Edward J. Barry, John Th '11 b dif' d f Jose.nh Lubansky; Rosemary Kelly, e course WI e mo Ie rom R. Bergstrom, Thomas H. BlaiS· - \' t · th t d ts t Holoyl~e. with Max Eisner; Phyllis year o year as e s u en repor \'ell Carl B. Booth, Vilmar K. 1 th U · C 11 L'b \ Brown, Albany, with Ja-mes ID • back to e n10n ° ege 1 rary Bose, Jack C. Bow1'e, John W. h 'th Its f th t · · d b man.; Jean Segal, Newburg , W1 the resu o. e rammg an su • Britten, DeWitt Brown, Donald W. Rol>ert Herman. jects which need speciaL emphasis, :Buchanan, Julius &undgus, Jr., -----Q--- Mr. Webb said. Joseph R. Cafarella, Anthony A. \A present we know very little' Canale, Benja111in Cohen, Victor as to the gaps in the student's Cohen, Lionel B. Coloby, Robert understanding of the problems of c. Denzler, Elliott G. Dodge, Jr., scholarship and bibliography. The John F. Donahoe, Edson v. S. new course will not replace any Draper, Andrew Dryl>urgh, Hyman subject bibliography now required A.. Enzer, Robert E. Ferguson, by the graduate schools. It will, in- Donald P. Ford, John H. Gilm()Ur, stead, attempt to make available Paul M. Goldberg, Arnold M. Gar- the principal worJting tools of don, Arthur S. Grant, Jr., Willard scholarly research which unlock L. Hagadorn, Jr;, Henry D. Hart- for the. inquiring student the vast mann, William H. Hawkes, Horace · amount of information and know!- N. Holbrook, Charles B. Honikel, edge contained in a scholarly li- Donald 0. Hotaling, Charles H. IN THE MAIL For Master ;Henry M. Seider, frorn T. Hood, '45. Under the D()me of Sighs C>ne more unfortunate Weary of word, Rashly importunate Head lifted tenderly Helplessly lured. Eyes following with care,- ( Fashioned so slenderly brary. (Continued on Page 6) \The chief fault with such a. ------------------------:---::-:-:-:----- ~~~r~~;~;ef~n;i~~:,a·s~:~c~~~ts~= Nine Outing Club Members Find Snow Axe the librariennes fair!) dents of proven ability what we At L k PI \d Qki• E II t should be doing ror an students in a e . aCI . ~ Illg xce en · the college; at present we have to select the qualified students in the senior year instead of doing it at such a time that the benefit could be felt during the undergraduate college course Itself.\ · Dormitories Get New Escapes By JACK BERGSTROM Sunday, the six othere arrived Saturday afternoon at 1:30, nine in: Placid at the early hour of U. 0. C.ers set out to the N<>rth eight and the rest of the day was Country for the first skiing of the spent in skiing on Steven's open season. It .had been rumored here· sEopes, except for a drive up t() in Schenectady that there was any. the toll house on Whiteface to in- where from five inches to a foot v~stigate snow conditions on the of snow on the open slopes near nnomitaln. Tehese were found to New chain fire escape ladders North Creek. Wben the skiers ar- hoe poo 1 · because of a stiff wind so have been instaLLed in the annex:es rived, however, they found, accord- the skiers returned to the open of both North a.nd South Colleges. ing to the usual formula of divid- slopes where a light snow con- Attached at one end to the floor ing the said amcmnt of snow by ·tinue.d for the rest of the day and of the room, the ladders, consist- two and subtracting four .that there kept skiing com;l.itions in good ing of parallel chains joined by was,-a mere dusting. shape. Early Sunday morning Bob metal rounds, can be dropped Lake Placid was called by phone Miles had the misfortune to break from the windows to provide and reliable information reported a slti, and thus has the dubious escape in case of fir:e. four inches of skiable snow. Three <Jistinction of being the first to Anthony Hoadley, comptroller, in of the skiers drove up to Placid. have an accident this year. commenting on the ladders, said: Satprday night and when they saw \They are put up for the specific an actual four inches of snow be-' Those who made the trip were: purpose of emergency use, and auy. came so enthused. that they spent, Frank J. Manheim, Jean Anderegg misuse of the equipment will re- an hour before turning in for th<a of the Brown School, Fred Wyatt, suit in an increased hazard to the night, dashing about the open Jack Bergstrom, Jerry Wright, student residents of the dormi- slopes in the darlt, and limbering . Bib Miles, John Gardner, Stan tories.\ up for the folloWing day, Beolter a.nd John.ny Senn.

Page Four Punts and passes and lost of dashes . . . Bob Babcock, Roches- ter's g1·eat athlete who is now a Rhodes scholar, played in the first team backfield on the Evanston, Ill., high school football team with Clint J:o'tank of Yale (of whom you may have heard), It was in Evan- ston that Frank was chosen on his first All-America team. He was named as a halfback on the All- America interscholastic eleven in 1!)32 , • • Brud Bolland, Cornell's colored end, was injured in the Dartmouth game this year by be- ing kicked in the head by his own teammate, Al Van Ranst .•• Hol- land, by the way, is a .really grand g.uy. Before reporting for football at Cornell he sought out the fresh- man. coach and asked him i.f he thought it would be \all right\ if he \Holland) tried out. Said he did not want to i·nterfere if the coach thought his presence would make any ·difference to the other play- ers . . . Char·ley Caldwell, the Wil- liams coach, once was a member of the New York Yankees. His stay with them was distinguished by the fact that he beaned Wally P.ipp with a pitched ball in batting ptactice one day. \Pipp was the first baseman the day before Lou Gehrig stepped in and forgot to step out again.) Caldwell would prabably have liked a chance to pitch batting practice to a few of Amherst's fleet backs before the Amherst-Williams game on Novem- ber 13. THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1937 EDWARD B. WELLS Seniors Tl'{}unce Frosh 11-2 In Lacrosse Final In a game played in a heavy rain, the senior lacrosse team lived up to expectations and de- feated the freshman team by a score of 11-2 in the interclass la- crosse series on Alexandet• Field last Friday- afternoon. The fresh- men had won an 8-6 victory from an undet·manned sophomore team, and the seniors had previously elted out an 11-10 victory over the juniors. . Howie Thompson of the seniOr team was outstanding in his play, :Da.te Dec. 17 Dec. 15 Jan. 7 Jan. 8 Jan. 8 Jan. 8 Jan .. 8 Jan. 12 Jan. 12 Jan. 13 Jan.14 Jan. 15 Jan. 15 Jan. 15 Jan. 15 Jan. 15 Jan. 21 Jan. 22 Jan. 22 Jan. 22 Feb. 2 Feb. 4 Feb. 5 Feb. 5 Feb. 5 Feb. 5 Feb. 5 Feb. 9 Feb. 11 Feb. 11 Feb. 12 Feb. 12 Feb. 12 Feb. 12 Feb. 16 Feb. 16 Feb. 19 Feb, 19 Feb. 19 Mar. 5 WINTER SPORTS SCHEDULE Sport Opponent Plooe V. Basketball St. Lawrence here V. Basketbali Clarkson here V. Hockey Ma.ss. State here V. Hockey Williams away F. Hockey Eoosac School here F. Basketball Troy H. S. he1·e V. Basketball Haver.ford here V. Basketball NYU here F. Hockey Albany Academy away V. Hockey Middlebury here Swimming Trinity here Swimming- Williams away V. Hockey- Hamilton away V. BasketbaLl Rochester away F. Hockey Lenox School away F. Basketba:ll Mont Pleasant H. S. here V. Basketball McGill here Swimming RPI here F. Basketball Manlius here V. Basketball Colgate away V. Hockey Army away V. Hockey Colgate here V. Hockey RPI away Swimming Syracuse away V. Basketball CCNY away F. Hockey Manlius away F. Basketball Nett Terrace H. S. away V. Basketball Columbia away V. Basketball Hamilton here Swimming Amherst here V. Basketball Rochester here Swimming Rochester away F. Hockey Albany Academy here F. Basketball Albany Academy here Swimming Colgate here V. Basketball Middlebury away F. Basketball RPI away V. Basketball RPI away Swimming MIT here V. Basketball RPI here Intramurals Foul Shooting Contest Every student in college is eligi- . · ble to participate in the foul shoot- ing tourney. Each contestant may attempt his 25 free throws any time .between 10:30 a. m. and 1:30 p. m. each day. S\'\dmming Meet The t·ules for the Swimming Meet · are in y-our respective intramural · boxes. Entries must be In the in- tramural box l'lot later than 5:00 p. m. ·on Friday, Nov. 26th. The · events will be scheduled .as f<>llows. Monday, Nov. 29: 50 yard Free Style 50 yard Breast Strol,e, 75· vard' Medley Relay, Underwater Swim for Distance . . Wednesday, Dec. 1: 25 Ya:r<l Free .Style, 75 yard Sprint Relay, 50 yard Backstroke, 100 yard Free Style. ---o--- Freshmen Candidates Called AH freshman candidates fm• ft eshman hockey are asked to meet Coach Arthur Lawrence in the T1·ophy Room in the gymnasium this afterno0n at 4:30. Pt,actice wiU start right after Thanl~:sgiving. 1ot1o'r.mal Wea'r. Although in some circles the business of cheerleading is re- garded as a minor matter, some- thing should be said somewhere about the fine job Doug. Murphy did in away games this fall. He was one of the five faithful who composed the Union cheering sec- tion at Colby, and worked alone at Williams and with one other man at Hamilton. He deserves to be head-cheerleader next year (which, of course, is none of our business). although Bill Nugent and .Art ~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~~~~~ Breymaier, the two goalies gave ~':\ very creditable accounts of them- selves. In Breymaier, Coach Bill Harkness should find a very THE LIDO A new dress shirt for tails - authentically styled fox young men .•• Mitoga form-fit ---0--- Dr. Fox Plans Long Tour To Meet Alumni Groups Several Alumni societies in vari- strong caadidatE\ for the varsity goalie position left vacant by the graduation of George Burd. The junior team forfeited its scheduled game with the sopho- more team. Members D\f the freshman team have made tentative plans to go to Baltimore on a \lacrosse- trip\ later in the year, although no def- inite actiorr has been taken on the matter. ous parts of the country are plan- r;;;;;;::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;9 ning to hold meetings within the next few weeks, at which time col- lege acquaintances will be renewed, and undergraduate days will be re- created. President Dixon Ryan Fox ha~ travelled to Cleveland, where he will address the Alumni body to- morrow. President Fox will travel to Hartford on December 2, where he will speak before the Alumni Society in that city, and on Decem- ber 3, he will address the Boston Alumni gathering. \Sun Maid Ice Cream\ SODA- CANDY LUNCH CREGAN'S lOS Nott Terrace InteresUd in Schenectady Interested in UNION MAURICE B. GRAIHJART The Jay Street Jerwdtr 166 JAY STREET Watch and I ewelry Repairing a Specialty PARKER PENS FOR DELUXE COACHES CALL G .. A. Welcome & Son 1711 Union Street PHONE 4·9444 A NEW SYMBOL OF a national organiza- tion dedicate to the sci- entific control of dairy products, this seal is your assurance of finer ice cream. LOUIS WASSERMAN QUALITY MEAT MARKET 354 Broadway Phones 4-3364, 4·1365 GUERRA PHARMACY ·DRUGS, PRESCRIPTIONS SIJNDRIES We serve sandwiches and light lunches. 600 Union St. cor. Barreff Phone 2-9419 GAZETTE PRESS Printing Have Us Send the Girl Friend a Corsage for the ALL-COLLEGE DANCE • T. J. KING FLORAL SHOP 317 STATE ST. SMAR.TEST DINNER. CLUB IN THE CAPITAL DISTRICT DINIIIER MUSIC 6 to 8 Minim~m Charge SOc: DINNER SERVED EVENINGS 5-8 Week Days $1.00 1 Saturdays and Holidays Your Favorite Catering to Dinner Parties Banquets Clubs Prop. and Mgr. John F. Gibbons PHONE 6-9852 Chef MAC WAY Formerly of --- s'CO C\. 0 \Ao~tJ~ i ... ,~~c:,s ~\j~\-. The ANTLER'S CLUB ?'let quite so 1o'r.mal THE SHOREHAM For wear with tux- edo only. Pleated bosom with Aroset collcrr attached. NUSBAUM'S 447-451 State Street DR E S S SHIRTS Co~ QuiJ Wit: Scrim ing 1 tes' Pra Schul At Cont menta: cut tin! being Nitchr game ber lf Coac scrimr teams with under includ tween test. Wit Union in the Nitch range flict ' develc cause ketba !em shOWl men Be< and i Niter men cess. Of ply in Schu Smit othm pre vi men year' Lo are at t whil• Hud: Har1 are stea• tinu· Or Uni< the oppc son, oppc Dut Tl COlli ere( Col! alsa Cia

5th. The s f<lllows. 3;Fd Free broke, 75· .d\nwatel' ·ard· F1•ee r, 50 yard' Style. ~ CaUed 3.te~ for d to meet in the ·mnasium Lctice wH! ving. tA , s I Lt s THE CONCORDIEN'SIS, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1937 Coach Preparing r.r= =::::::::=:============rl. Zubres.NewFencingfloaeh. ,.;S. chooled Quintet for Opener . In the Showers \ u With St. Lawrence! by cARL R. TRAHMAN In Sport by Italian Army Officer Page Five maintained this year and no con- tests with other colleges will be featured. Fencing at Union for this year will be confined to an intramural. basis Scrimmages, Shooting, Stall- . _ ~he cditpr-in-ch.ief has ju.st decreed in his omnipotent style that .Uns 1ssu~ W11l be s~x pages. This column, therefore, is a necessity, if ing Featured as hii,tia.l Con- only to ftll space, smce we are now in the midst of that athletic lull Pmfcssor J. Harold Wittne·r of the Athletic Department has ap- match 'vith a Silver Medal holder pointed Merton L. Zubves as CC!lach of The University of Michi!,an in of Fencing. .Zubres will begin his which contest he won the foil but duties after the Christmas vaca- lost the epee. UNITY SHIRT SHOP 104 BROADWAY dt ;-,1 IHJ· b L\ J c; test Dec. 15, Approaches between t.he f~ll and winter :season when aU teams are training and none an playmg. Au~·way, h.eve are some random observations. tion. At present, Zub~es, who gradu- Practice During Recess Schultz, Miller, Smith, C'arr And Dayle Likely to Pill Varsity Posts ZubJes, a Union graJuate, who. ated frum Albany Law School . _ The -ltock~y team wil! go te> Lake P.!acid for its holiday training will succeed Kmt v'm It'oz·stmyer, after leaving Union, -is associated thls year durmg the Chrtstmas recess, One thing is sure: Conditions has had considerable experience as with .Jutige Isadore Brookstein of at the Adirondack lake will be decidedly more hockeyiah than those a fencer. He began his career in Albany. »t the team's former practice spot, Princeton, where, take it from us, 1924 while a student in an Al:bany At the first call for fencing can- orange ll ees burst into bloom at Christmas. Though we don't want dgh school; he received instluction dictates, 35 students, .an unusually to look too far ahead, we'd :like to sugg.est that the tennis team take from Lieutenant Aldo Catot'iano, 'large number of candidates for _a south~rn training trip dum\'g Easter vacation. Long pre-season train-. an off.icer of the Italian At·my who this sport, responded. Because, mg ·penods are of paramDunt importance in tennis and a jaunt such was then studying in this country. ~~n~io:n~'~s~~b~es~t~~f~en~c~e~r~s~g~t·a~d~u~a~t~e~dl!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ as the Amherst team takes dat·ing spring recess would do no end of 'rhJ·ough Zub1 's ff t f - d · ·e e 01 s, encmg last year, no varsity team will be. Continued drilling on the funda- goo - • • became a popular sport in the Al- mentals of pasketball - passing,. bany schools. He coached high C utting, faking and guard 1 ·ng - is To .pat:aphrase our Uncle Willie: We're sure there is no tt·uth to h 1 . h h • sc oo teams m Albany in the being featured by Coach Nelson t e rumor t at a certain member of the athletic department helped year 1933 _ 34 . Nitchman for the Gamet's first to dim our hopes :for a good basketball season by letting fraternity game with st. Lawrence on Decem- loyalty in.:tluence the selection of a gym assistant. While a student at Union, he was ber 15. <• • individual high scorer of the Gat~ Coach Nitchman is also planning We are gl'ad to report tltat through Art Lawrence's efforts a net team in the 1934 season. He scrimmages between two five man bowling league has been formed, which while not under intramural was featured in an exhibition teams in future p 1 actlce sessions, supervision, includes teams .from 13 fraternity groups to date. No pro- with additional work on shooting • gram has been definitely arrang-ed but bowling will start after Thanks- under pressure and stalling also giving. Any fraternity or othEr groups interested in joining the league included in training periods be- should get in touch with Art Lawrence at the Gym. tween now and the opening con- test. With 23 days remaining before Union tangles with St. Lawrence in the Alumni Gymnasium, Coach Nitchman is wor:king hard to ar- range practices that will not con- flict with clru;ses. 'l'he necessity for developing a new style of play be- cause of the recent change in baS- ketball rulings is an added pro b- lem for the team, which has shown some weakness in buffing men out. Holiday Practiee • * The fencing enthusiasts here lost no time in arranging for the continuance of the sport, wllich. was dropped when Coach Forstmeyer left Union last year. This is a healthy sign. The more varied our sports program .is, the more students it will draw into participation, and that is what we want. 'I:'he athletic department l1as shown fine co- o·peration with the fencers in providing them equipment and an able coach and there is no reason why fencing should not gain its former popularity. * We'd like to tip our colu.m.nar hat to Bill Hawkes, retiring captain of the varsity cross-country team, who b.l'LS just ended an outstanding · ::m·eer as a hill-and-daler with a fine showing in the I. C. 4A meet in New York. During this year's regular season Hawkes won .first places in every meet but ooe, and paved the way for many Garnet victories. He will certainly be missed. Because much practice is needed. --------~--------------------­ and little time is available, Coach Nitchman wlll probably drill his men during the Thanksgiving re- cess. Of the twenty-two candidates ap- plying for the varsity team, Johnny Schultz, Dave Miller, and Grant Smith will ·have an advantage over other candidates because of their previous experience. All of these men occupied ltey positions on last year's va1•sity. Lou Carr and LaRue Buchanen are two sophomores whose work at this date appears ontstanding while Herb Watson, Bill Busino, Hudson Tanner, George Miller, Harry Palmer, and Bob Hanson are other· sophomot·es who are steadily improving as practice con- tinues. One discouraging facto!' for the Union courtme;n is the .fact that the first two teams that they will oppose: St. Lawrence and Clark- son, both will have met four other opponents before encountering the Dutchmen. Attention Faculty A member of the University of Delaware's physical educa.tlo:n staff claims to be the first college in- structm· to Jive in a trailer. :He has rented space on the rear of the lawn of a family in Newa:dt and students are wagering on h1>w long· he will 1 emain in it on-ce the weather turns cold. For Houso linen Service PHONE 4-3166 AMERICAN COAT, APRON & LAUNDRY COMPANY I 030 Barrett St. CLOVERLAND CREAMERY Phone 6-8104 633 State St. Thru to FOR PROMPT SERVICE 919 State St. PHONE 6-3456 PAINT, GLASS AND WALLPAPER Full Line ol A1'tists Supplies Dance Floor Wax CARLSON'S 515 STATE ST. 1006 CRANE ST. MILK SO RICH YOU CAN WHIP THE CREAM Produced. under Strict Laboratory Control For Daily Service PHONE 4-3121 General Ice Cream Corp. CLARK WITBECK CO. 416-418 STATE ST. Schenectady, N. Y. Skates, Skis, Sleds, Mazda Lamps, Floorwax, Hardware, Clocks, Thermometers, etc. PHONES: 4-41bl-4-4162-4-4163 RUSCITTO TH'E FLORIST SPECIALIZING IN CORSAGES I OOJay Street Phone 4-2847 The St. Lawrence and Clarkson courtmen will both have ~mcount­ ered Hartwick, St. Michaels and Colgate, while SL Lawrence will also have played Syracuse and Clarkson, Cortland. Nott Terrace G- E Campus News A Popular UNION Phrase .... ,, IT'S THE \TOPS'' A turbine-generator set now being built at the Schenectady Works of the Gen- eral Electric Company will operate at a pressure of 2500 pounds and at a tem- perature of 940 F. This pressure is nearly 1000 pounds more than that used for any other commercial unit now in service, and the temperature is higher. It represents the work of many men. Experts in mechanical design have solved. unique problems-for the shell of the turbine will have to withstand pressures equal to those that exist more than half a mile below the surface of the sea. When the unit is completed, elec- trical and chemical engineel's, metallur- \ists and research workers will have ~ontl'ibuted knowledge and experience to it. The design and construction of turbine- generators such as this is largely the work of college graduates-some of whom entered G-E Test only a few years ago. Thousands of other Tf'~t men are engaged in the design, manu- t facture, and sale of these and hundreds of other electric products that are used in industry today. TWO PERMANENT WAVES Co-eds preparing for a dance are not the only subjects for permanent waving -there is the tungsten wire used in General, Electrir lamps. This wir-e, 19/10,000 inch in diameter, is first tightly wound, 335 turns to the inch, wit.h the coils 1/1000 inch apart. Mter tl1e wire receives this first \per- manent wave,\ it is coiled once more, 70 turns to the inch, with 7/1000 inch between the turns. This reduces the ol'igilkal 20 inches of wire to a coil 5/8 inch iong and having an outside diam- eter of 310/10,000 inch. These permanent waves pay real divi- dends because tungsten wire becomes more brilliant as it is more closely com- pacted. This new process is only one of many developments made by G-E engiaeel's in the field of illumination-a field which offers many opportnnitit>s to .te-chnically trained men. GENERAL.fj) ELECTRiC \I'LL MEET YOU AT THE HOTEL VAN CURLER\ foR SERVICE foR ATMOSPHERE foR CUISINE VISIT THE COFFEE SHOP AND TAP RQQ;M

Page Six. THE CONCORD[ENSTS, T 1 UESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1937 Manure On Science The Autobiog1aplly of a Sci• rnti,;t, by Dr. Hemy Manure. 176 pp. Intennent: Physics Libt m·y. ~67 Students Attaht _ ._, Dean's List Rating <Continued from Page 3) House, Jr., Elmer T. Johnson, John J. Kelley, Herman Kessler, Stan- Science ma1ches on, in spite of .l.ey Kollin, Floyd V, Ladd, Wes- the scientists---and, \-\ D1·. Manure l.ey E. Leonard, Duane LeTarte, repeatedly su,tes, il1 spite of tl::le \iVUlard L. Male, Joseph. J. Me-, many-do!lared I~ boratories. To Neil, Marvin M. Miller, Melvin 1. .pt·uve his :point, he i·ntroduces us, Nu.roff, John C. Nott, Bernar·d in his dissettatien on the bolonium Olender, Andrew Pasichnyk, Nor- atom, to the empire of scienUflc nan N. Pomerantz, John M. chicanery. The tti~inte1·ested atti- Ferry, Preston T, Reed, Arnold 0, tude of science is shown to be in :Riley, Thomas J, Schermerh01·n, many cases a .p!>~e. generally as-• <Jeorge T. Scott, James A. Scully, sumed unconscious!)'. The old game, l!enry M. Seider, Alfred R. Seigle, of Me, Myself, and 1 is just as' Hugh H. Sharpe, Jr., Robert B. !>Opular umong scientists as it is' S!'l.epard, Jr., J·erome Spellman, among pollticians. Apparently in Henry M. Stephenson, William E. scienre the scramble .for· intellectual· Swanson, W. Howard Thompson. pre-eminence Is just as fierce as the Cat•l R. Tt•ahman, Russell Tru- scramble for financial pre-eminence dell, John W. VanLaak, Martin in business and politics. \Stealing Viscusi, Langdon A. Wagoner, a scene\ is not a vice native to C11arles C. Wiberley, Edward Hollywood. A Robert Blank f0rtn- \Vickert, Jr., Charles L. W-Itham, ulates a new Ia v:, and a Pr·ofes- John S. Wold. sor Grabfame ma:ltes a few trivial- suggestions and calls it Gtabfame's Law. A very cute trick is played by an ambitious young astronomer -who achil'ves stellar success and a pmfessoria! chair by naming the craters of the moon after the trustees and deans of tlw univer- sity. This young brain-buster hitches his wa!(Oil to a sta~ with an almost literal vengeance. He is afterward appuillted \consulting astrophysil'ist of thP Nutsit- Wheatsies CorpoJation.\ He so or- gan!zl's a company to buy up the i land on which a c>omet. full of,' valuable ore. is supposNI to land. BS in Civil Enginee1·ing: Wil- :!ard W. Dean, Bernard V. Jaco- ·lick, Clyde B. Mat·shall, Jr., James F'. Morgan, Jr., Ralph S. Pearse. BS ht Elechical Engineel'ing: Fredet·ick F. Fagal, Richard I<ovaric. Cromwell Mc[ntosh, Jr., Joseph Paul, James W. Scott, Jr. BS in Che-mistry: William J. Jacober. Jr·., Arthur C. Santm·a, Matthew C. Wilson. BS in Physics: Robert J. Do!g, ,Jr., Louis C. Maples. And so on for 176 times. ' 'l'he catalogue of thP hundreds of pre<'ision in str·umen ts is suffl-, ciently amusing. even for an A.B_: Restaurant-Tap Room·Delloolessen ALWAYS PO.PULAR As Ke·nny 'Tompkins ~ays, thisr·: ~~~;;;;~~~~~~~~~~~ book has a !lind of old-fashioned humor sucrf'ssfu!l~· used by Bill: Nye and his conu·auPs of a depatt-· ed da>'· And as Jack Malone says-, of the Mi~t<>J>s\' a10und here, the: author ~O<'s all amund Robin Hood's bam to make his wise-· ct·acks. Some of the cracks are of: the barn-tr-ack variety. Thrre is a Troy Second Shirt Outlet Spoolallzlng In Flnef!t Troy SecoDds, Odds and Sa.mples 715 State St. Aoroll8 from .Arm.ory CAI..ElSOAR Tonight 'f :30 p. m.--Meeting, Philo- rnathean Society, Old Chapel. NOTICES day at 4:30· p. m. If this does not prove convenient, it may -be pos- sible to meet at an0ther time. by noon on. ·Monday. Those regu- larly dining at Hale House <Jr fra- ternity houses may arrange -fOl' exchanges. Tomorl\\'llW Dr. Kt-llogg wishes to announc:e. that because of the Thanksgiving holiday the Public Speaking Class. will n0t meet Wednesday aftn·- Placement Conference--On Mon- SmliOJ\ l'lacement Fol'ms- Sen- noon as scheduled. day, November 29, Mr. F. Michler [ iors who have not -olteady sent 10:00 a. m.- -Daily Assembly, Speaker, -Dr. T. 2. Koo of the World Chl'istian Federa- tion staff. 1:00 p. m.--Radlo Club Meet- ing, Lectul'e Bo<Jrn, Electdcal Eugineering Building. LaCI'osse Equipme-nt: 'rhe 1De- ·Bishop of the New York Life In- • their qualification and application ment c;f Athletics req.uests that all suFance Company will meet wit! I forms to the Flacen'ent Office ate those who have not yet tumed in the seniot·s who are interested in rettuested 1!0 ·do so befote Decen~­ their lacrosse equipment do so .be- sales and oinsmance at the Alpra 1 bet· t ll'he material for the Place- fore the Thanksgiving t·ecess. Delta Phi House at 6:30 ·o'cleck. : ment bulletin>~ will ·be printed at All those interested must sign up I that time. INTERFRATERNITY NIGHT. 'Thursday-Sunday, Thanks- giving Recess: Me>Iiday 4:30 p. m. - - Public Speaking Class, Old Chapel, 7:30 p. m. -- Iland Reheat·sal, Gymnasium :rrophy Room. Gernum ConveJ•sation Classes: Tltere is still room for several more students in the German conversa· tiona! classes which Hans Munzer,. German exchange student is Cl>ll- ducting. All those interested may attend the sessions which are . held every Wednesday and Thux·s· r<>r the All-College Da:nce consult us About Corsages PARK FLORI·ST 531 STATE ST. Schenectady EngravinCJ Cos 147 JAY ST. ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORDIENSIS THE CAMPUS BARBER SHOP ·Basement of Silliman Hall A Special Service for Union Students Anthony F, :Barbieri Hours: l:S0-7:00 P. M. UNION COL.LECE BO,OK STORE JAPANESE PRINTS NOW ON DISPLAY lti nd of back-hou.;;p humor offer~d '~=~~=~~=~~==~==~~=~===:=:=:=:::_:::::::_::::_:::::::_::::_::=:::_::~:::::_::::_::::::::=:=:::_::=:=:~~~::':=:=:=:=:~::=;;;:;;;~=::::=::::=:~:-'~;;;;;;~::=::==~=::==::=::::-~~' effectively enough, but the author·' - --------- ----· bc!iPves that full pfft'ctiveness is impossible in Jlrint. Some of the humor is impo.esible as it Is. Dr. Manure also intimat<'S that science MistHs' a1 e addicted to back- house humo1 For in~tance, ther-e Is the story about the ~avant, D1. Poopsick, who ~ot his start b}' en·. ing the nation of thP d1 ead diseasE, Fl~ulens l'o-dex, whirh sounds interestmg wht<n translated. Thr B. S. ma~· find his sou:l- strugg!es in thrse pages. At least, he may not bv so ready to 1 o1nanticize \pur P sf'iPncP,\ afte1 he ha\' been r .. rtilized bv Manm-e. The solvin~-the-unive1se ·boys may saf<>Ir add this book tn their Ji.st of ~rriou.s 1 Pading. Who knows? There may nt·iS<• a I.uthPt' fro111 among t hPn1 1 Srit>nc-e nef'd~ one as badly a,; did thP l6tll Ce-ntUl')' Churrh. D1·. Manu1\ belit>ves that thl' scientist',; logic is fr<'quent!r just as scre1v·y as anyon<' else'8. He al,.;n bel iel'e\ that thP future of the world is not at all the sc!- <>nti\t'5 pit'Io~ative. 1\1 V *With a bow to H. l\1. fl.'s recent faeulty <'olltttbutur. DeWitt\'s Lunch Room and Tap Room We Serve Better Food for Retter Health 118-120 JAY ST. Opp. New City Hall BELLINGER PAINT CO. Arthur Trigg, Prop. Paints, Oils. Varnisl:t-Al, GlaBs, Brushes and Wall Paper 1~6 BR.OADWAY COLLECiE STUDIO H4 Jay St. Photos f<Dr Any Oooaslon AMERICAN A-1 LAUNDRY The Most Perfect Laundry, Work in the Capital District Ph. 4w31 116 1030 Barrett St. CONNELLY BROTHERS DAIRY Inc& 1858 Hamburg Street PHONE 2·091 0 ,, Notice the pure white ciga. rette paper ... notice how every Chesterfield is like every other Chesterfield-the same size and every one round, firm and well· filled. Notice when you smoke one how Chesterfields are milder and how different they taste. That's due to the careful way Chesterfield tobac- cos are aged and blended. ~fild ripe tobaccos and pure cigarette paper .• that's why they're MILDER wit~ they TASTE BETTER .. t!tey'l! §i've !f(Jtt MORE PLEASURE .:; Cia~ = Z.511 Vol. L Mot Be~ Witl Ernst Mo1 ni E.L Start: Wi Not ancl s' By Ju banlts like Peace twent: Colleg But music More the VI for a1 Ret of a1 Edwa More \ultr1 same that view pranl Th< night morr· in tl curt! nigh I tome In com~ picio ance good t St. attr: the she sort: of p Tl row fles bee: min cil the 'I be but fro ate but obt are an, 1 Sh Re M. '41 Rl D[ ge Cc ki: EJ be M '4: le '41 R '4 J 1 f, e b l I

