in this Saratoga this \.he at a din- who to one ave been ·the oon than who football of the :re- of a ·stu- gave refuse n-tly, you Chris- S ROLLS BED Sears. such • • Social Studies Sigma Xi To Hear tS Club Hobart Elects \. Z-511 Vol. LXII., No. !3 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1938 PRICE FIVE CENTS Stanley Liebman •39 Elected Chairman Social Studies Club McGuire New Advisor Cornell, Eisner., Fcihy, Gertz, Lazarus and Silled Chosen As Junior Members Stanley Liebman, '39', was -elected chairman of the Social Studies Club at a meeting on Friday, Oct . 28, and Irving Nelicit '39 was. chosen secretary. At the same time ~ix juniors were elected to member- ship; these are Alexander Cornell, Henry Silleck, Christopher Fahy, Stanley Gertz, Marvin Lazurus, and Robert Eisner. John McGuire, Instructor in Economics, Union '3-5, was appoint- ed faculty advisor .replacing Mr. Frank Manheim. M:cGuil'e was one of the founders of the club during his undergraduate days. Consider Plans for Year St-udent Council Will Meet Tomorrow Night- The Stuaent Coun<JU wHI hold its second meeting of the yem· tomorrow night at 7:4:5 .p. m. in the Old Chapel. This will be the counciJ!s second meeting in the series- of six it will have during the year. At the last meeting :held on October 11th, the Student Coun- cil gave the Inte!'fraternity Council permission to hold its annual dance on the night of November the 11th. At the same meeting the council tabled a question of optional examinations brought up by Stanley Luke, '39, due to inade- quate information on the sub- ject but President David Yun- cih appointed Luke chairman of a committee to study and report on the questio11. As an informal vote by hands at the last meeting showed the council to be in favor of such a change, the problem of op- tional exams will undoubtedly be discussed on Wednesday night. Union Chapter of Phi Sigma Kappa Featured in Signet :Freshman Reco~rd Distributed At Class Meeting Wyatt, Yunieh Speak Hook Contains :Pictures .And Previo.us Activities Of :Each Member of '42 Clark Announces De,corative Th-eme Of FootbaH BaU To Resemble Field .Or. and Mrs. Fox Head List of Faculty Chaperor:1es The 1942 edition of The Fresh- The decorations fot· the Inter- man Record appeared on the cam- fraternity Ball, at which Mall Hal- pus this afternomt when it was dis- 'let's Band will play, wHl be in the tributed to the freshmen at a class meeting held in Old Chapel at 1 ~ootball field motive, according to p. m. Fred Wyatt and David Yun- ·an announcement made today by ich were present and the former Robert Clark '39, chai-rman of the gave a shot t talk on the purpose -dance committee . .At the same time and value of the book. Clark named the chaperones fo1· The book contains a picture <>f the dance and that there will be each member of the class and a brief record of his preparatory a special booth reserved for the .c:chool activities, his nickname, his faculty. course of study, and his college ad- There will be goal posts at each -dress. end of the floor, with the possibil- The purpose of the book as ity that they will be the post~ from stated in the foreword is to assist the Council Field. The ceiling will the freshman In becoming ac- . be draped in sky blue paper and quainted, to develop class con- the side walls will be covered in sciousness and to serve as a recor.d grass green. Booths will line the of a man's college career in con- side walls, w-ith one at either end junction with the Senior Garnet. of the floor. The band will be on Has Cia.sfl Statistics l.he west side of the gym. Plans for the year were also con- sidered and it was decided to work out a project which wi:ll carry ov0r the entire school year; the project will be one requiring research and investigation by the members of the club. It will be of the same general nature as -the survey of undergraduate courses that was conducted two years ago by the ,.arne group. \The Signet,\ the magazine pub· lished four times each year by the Phi Sigma Kappa fraternity, de- voted much of the space in its first The statistics of the freshman Chaperones Named issue to its Beta chapter here at class reported in the book show · The chaperones are Dr. and Union. An account is given of the that 31 members of the class are Mrs. Dixon Ryan Fox, Dean -and 50th Anniversary Celebration of sons of Union alumni, 5 grandsons· Mrs. Garis, Dr. and Mrs. Vernon the Beta Chapter which was held of Union Alumni, and 2 great- ·O'Rourke, Mr. and Mrs. Frederic here in Schenectady last spring on grandsons of Union men. 18 mem- Wyatt, Dr. and Mrs. William W. May 21st :md 22nd, and includes bers of the class are enrolled in Bennett, Dr. and Mrs. Frederick addresses given to the convention the literature division, 80 in social Bronner, and Dr. and Mrs .. Doug- -by Stewart W. Herman and Dr.· studies, 102 in science and 80 in· las Campbell. All of the faculty The Social Studies Club is an honorary organization confined to upperclassmen in tl\'e social studies division. Men are elected during their junior year, and membership is based solely on scholastic stand- ing. The other members of the. club, elected last year, are Lieb- man, Nelick, IDdwa.rd Retartyk, and Benjamin Rathbun. Arthur G. Root who graduated -engineering. will be tendered invitations. from Union in 1888. The rest of the There are \tiJ men from Schenec- · The drawing rur the booths will space devoted to the Beta Chapter tady and Scotia in the class, 141 take place in the trophy room in includes a history of the chapter from other parts of New Ymk. the gymnasium on Thursday at 1:30 by F'. W. Van Dyke, '39, who is State, and 09 men from other o'clock, Clark said. All of the fra- president this year, -and an account' states. ternities and possibly a group of of the freshmen pledged by Phi The staff which edited the book neutrals are expected to purchase Sigma Kappa this fall·. Milton M. consists of Robert Walter, editor; booth space. ----0 Recent Copy Of Ramee Portrait Hung in Hale House Enzer contributed an a1 ticle en- Chi istophel' Fahy, David Wilder, The sale of ticltets ls reaching titled \Union College\ expressing and Richard Masterson, assistant the expectations of the committee, the ideal of tole: ance and liberal- editors; and Frederic Wyatt, fac- according to Clark. They may be ism which e>:ists here at Union to- ulty advisor. Some of the phot()-- purchased from any of the coun- ward new pt inciples and ideas in graphy was done by At thur Low- cii members and in the Student Ac- education. enthal and Edward Case, both '41. tivitles office. Famous French Architect Commemorated At College He Designed Through the consent of Mon- sieur Andre Girodie, the curator of the Museum of Franco-Arne! ican Cooperation, who through his ac- quaintanco with P1ofesso1· Harold A. Larrabee revealed last year the discove1y of a portrait of Joseph Ja:::que~ Ramee, the French archi- tect who drew the plans for the buildings and grounds of the Union College. campus in 1&13, a repro- c;uction of this famous portrait has been m'-tue and brought to the col- lege. Last week It was hung in Hale House, one of the buildings Ramea designed to commemorate t.he master a-rchitect. Among Ramee Documents The original portrait of Ramee was sent to the museum of M. Girodie last year among a number of documents relating to the Ramee family. It was done when Rarnee was at the age of 68 years and was painted in Paris by Gillot St. Evre, who received a medal of the first class in 1827 and the Le- gion of Honor lh 1833. His paint- ing of Ramee was completed less than 20 years after· the architect's activity in Schenectady and was approximately nine by twelve inches in size. 'The reproduction or copy has been done by Carlo Jean· roerat of Paris and is considerably iargei' than the original. Last May, a Bamee exhibition wa..:; l:eld in the Blerancourt Muse- um in France :>nd included numer- <..llil p;ctures relating to the college and I-:a:nee's wm·l{ collected by Professor Lanabee. Many of these pictu1es were returned to Dr. Lar- Iab2e during the summer along with the copy of the Ramee por- trai~ which now hangs in Hale Hou~e. There is now a permanent c:d1ibition in France of the French a:·c:rite!!t's achievements. It is at till J u>:hibition: tl'rat the original port1ait hangs along with many pictures of Union College as it looks today· as< compared with Ra- mee's original. '~Ian. ~-~;:;:J~~f--:·:_%f ' •,' ;:: . ·<~ '1(#1 _yr· ou~ Mountebank Technicans Prepare Settings For ~~The Adding Machine\ Plan to Make Use of Revolving Stage For Hrst Time; Eighty Lights Req~:~ired In Seven Different Scenes In staging \The Adding 1\lachine,\ the play by Elmer Rice, the Mountebanks Theatre is faced with the most formidable producing problems since i-ts organization twenty-seven years ago. This famous dmma wiH be presented for three perform- ances begilming Friday night in the campus theatre. The entire building is now a lit- Austin Racing Car Seen Speeding Around Campus eral bee-hive. Henry Meadows '42, Union's more observing stu- dents probably noticed some students whizzing around the campus yesterday afternoon in something or other resembling a flying kitchen range. It turn- ed out to be an Austin Spe- cial racing car owned by Wil- bur Rice, who turned out to be a Deke from M.LT. Rice tore apart a standard Austin, jacked up the motor and built an aluminum body about it. The thingamajig {just about the only thing it can be called) is registered in the American As- sociation of racing cars as is its owner. . is perfecting a r·evolving stag-e set- ting to be used for the first time in the scene when Mr. Zero :;eea red as his boss fires him on the twenty-fifth anniversary of his job. James Barford '40, stage man- ager, is the busiest of the group. His task is the direction of the large technical staft and the N. Y. A. workers assigned to the theatre. The principal work is covering flats. He is supervising the paint- ing of the simulated walls of the sets, and also the men who are cut- . ting out the patterns according to the scenic designs of John T. Boyt '42. The stage crew has been as- sisted by the purchase of a band :,aw for use in the workshop. 1\J.any Lights Rice, who chatted genially with us while he adjusted one of his two carburetors, dis- closed that he uses benzine and ethyl for fuel and gets about forty miles to the gallon. He can get the mighty mite up to about seventy-five miles an hour but he expressed a doubt about his ability to slay on terra firma. Frederick G. Richards and his two assistant!;, Edward J'ackman and Abraham Bakal are mastering the more than four score of lights to produce a psychologically ancil- lary effect which heightens the emotion.al effect of the dominant theme of the play. Henry M. Hobart To Be Speaker Mr. Edward L. Carroll, director of the Mountebanks, is staging the most difficult play of his eleven year career as director. The play has twenty characters and seven scene changes, some of which are boldly satirical, and some strongly marked with deep pathos, and some full of sly humor. At Sigma Xi Confab Advance reservations for \The Adding Machine\ will be accepted beginning tomorrow. Tickets are on sale at the college News Bu- To Be Held Tomorrow Night At 8:00 P. M. reau. Students may obtain tickets upon J.>resentation of their athletic passes. Henry M. Hobart, consulting en- gineer of the General Electric Company in Schenectady, will be the principal speaKer at the Union Chapter of Sigma Xi's first meet- ing of the year to be held in the Electrical Engineering building to- morrow night at 8 o'clock. Mr. Hobart, who for 27 years has been a consulting engineer to the General Electric Company, will take for the eubject of his talk \Compre~scu G~; as an Insulntor in the Transmission of Electrical Power.\ He is an authority on arc welding, design of dynamo-electric machinery, insulation and stand· ardization. His wide training and interests suggest a point ()f view which is at once th:eoretical and practical, and, Sigma Xi officials pointed out, this lecture will be of in erest to ma·ny not technically informed in the subject discw;sed. Received .Mledal l\.1r. Hobart. on 0<'tobPr 19. lil:>6, v1:s pi\esPnted with the Sam- Ut!l Wylie :Miller Memorial Medal in recognition for his outstanding £ervice in the advancement of .. cluing research by the American Weldi11g Society, in Cleveland, Ohio. A graduate of the· Massachusetts Ins.itute of Technology in 1889, Mr. Hob:l.l't is the author of nu- •::IC:ous te~hnical books which cov- er a wide range of .::;ubjects in the ilc~d of e:cctrical engineering. He .s a Fellow of the American In- st:tu· e cf Electrical Engineers and the American .Association for the Adv:;tncement of Science, arid a me.nbc~ of the Institution of Civil Eugince1 s, the Institti!lon of Me- chcnical Engineers. and the in- st.tution of E!eclrical Engineers, .all of Q-reat Bri~ain, where he ha~ done a considerable pa-rt of his worlt in engineer~ing. ------0·---· 28 States Request President Arthur Stamp Issue Commemorative Stamp Will Be Flown To Schenectady Union College h'!-~ receive<:! re- quests from persons in 28 states, Washington, D. C., Canada, and Belgium for the commemorative 'f11 st day cover-\ which the co!leo-e >viii issue on November 22 in hon~r of Che.ster A. Arthur '48, the 21st president of the United States whose portrait will appear on the new 21 cents postage stamp to be ISSUed that day. Milton M. Enzer, who is in charge of the first day covers, reports that through a special arrange- ment with alumni Jiving in Wash- ington, the stamps will be shipped by plane to Schenectady on the day they appear· and thU$ will 1>e the first in the new presidential se- r·ies to be issued simultaneously 1n Washington and in a distant city. NowmhPr 10 De-adline 8:amp collectors have until No vember 10 to mail their requests to the college. It will require the re· maining time to imp! int on the sclf·addr esscd \covers\ the special cachet which the college is mak· 'ng. It will be a photoengraving of 1\!orth College dormitory in whicl: Ar:hur lived as a student at Union. The states from which thP 317 re- quest~ have come, as of today',; date. are New York State, Califor· nia, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, Vermont, Connecticut, New Jet·sey, Maryland, Virginia, New Hamp- shire, Ohio, Kansas, West Virginia, Michigan, Colorado, Indiana, Del- aware, Georgia, Florida, Missis- sippi, Wisconsin, Washington, Min- nesota, Iowa, Illinois. MissoUri, Maine, Wyoming; also Wa.shin:;-ton. D. C., Canada, and Belgium. ·

Page Two THE CONCO:RDIENSIS, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1938 Qlnurnr In this present stage ·Of ouT hig-hly special . 1 11 IN THE MAIL .·.It·=========;;;;!.~;.! · ized aNd swift moving society, .the head of ' 1· M 0 'J' 1 0 N ~ Notary Public . the family is HO longer able to CarTy the·. 'IL·===========-;!.1- OUR FAVORiTE ANNOUNCER \\ AT THE WILLIAMS GA-ME burden of transmitting th€ knowledge of to: ' The Left Bank ·Men With Wings is dedicated Hello, Folies, this is MILTON, Fuu!\mu -1877 om· complex social organization along with the men who \gave :to civilization MICHAEL ENZER, Assistant to Live ten minutes ·from the cam- his other duties of providing fo1~ the famil~·. it~ greatest gift 0 f the rutme, the: the President of Union College, an- pus and have never heard of Union · th U · n·w· l'lllams game College! Impossible, but >it ·is true. \ Cal\sa J'asa Parole .-lssai\ ~~----~~~~,~~~~~,~~~~----·­ :'llt•JuLt·r ul lht: A!\:-.ui.:Ja!t:d Colh:\giah: l'rt.::,~ .uul t~btr>hu,tor 11f tlw ·L'ollt·gi;.ttt· ili;.;t·.:.;t. Hence, he trusts the task of education of his, modern airplane.\ .tt chronicles the·. nouncmg e ·mo · · · Williams is a little college 'from a If you walk down Union Street a::; The uffkial w:W8IH\.pcr uf the :::.tuUent::> of-\lJnion CollPg('. Puhlblwd T.ue~day and Fridays through- ~ut~Jt~·~t~h,~·~··~u~J,~g~·,_·~)~l·:~,,~·-----------------~---- child to the public schools. .·events in the history of aviation little village over in Mass. Good'. far as the American Locomotive When the youth enters collecre he is en-' from the flight of the Wri'ght bro~h-: old Union, .founded 143 years ago works, turn left off Erie Blvd., and Editorial HoumA, Silliman Hall, Ulliun Colit'gc Cnlll· pus. Tt.>h·phollt>, Sdwnt'' tady, 4-0l:t:L • 0 • ' • • ers' aet'oplane up to (but not 111- · by our Dutch forefathers. then take .the fl.t'st street on the ttrely separated from the supet'VlSIOn of hls. eluding) the liight of Corrigan's. Of cour~e. Union is .going to wi:n right that leads to the Mohawk W 1· River you wHl see fl:om Hs ·bol\ders parents and is on his own j udgment as a et·ror.plane. Considering the magni- this game, folks. We play B tams the little suburb of Scotia. On the Publit•utinn O'f!ice, The Gazette l'ress:~:l34-State.Sl.. HdiP!l<'L'Imiy, N. Y, Telephone 4-4141 Eutettd ut the ~khcnectoliy Pl>~l Ufftce a8.Secoud Cl:u.:.s :\l:d I :\1a t tl~L dl t Y t th d t f f h I . d \ts . b every year for a practice game. bo-.ders of this off-spring of Sche- suppose 'J' Ina Ul'e person. . e , · e U ·y 0 tude o sue a tas t, lt oes ·l JO . Union is in fine form this year. •· 11 · nectady there are nine shacks Sui.J><cription pril'e Five cents a copy; $3:00 a year; the pm·ent has not diminished. He is stHl we · Well, folks, here comes the Umon h . 1 team. How the rooters root for whose occupants are chal\ter mem- deliver~.:.'d a.nywhere in the Uitited Stat~::-;_. __ _ charged with the supervision of his off- lf, however, it had not mg e se ;bers of the League of American to l ·ecommend l't but the Techni- gwd old Union. The Williams team d h' h f t . 't Hoboes, a bo y w 1c 1:e uses o Senior Board spring's educatiOn. ·colot' -in which it is filmed, it would ,s also on the field but they aren d hi h b t 1 fil F doing much. Good old Union, gosh submit to WPA aid an w · c ·sur- Frederick W. HequemboUl'g ..... Editor-in-Chief Psi Upsilon House-4-R710 Max Len ..................... Business Manager Kappa :-;u Ilouse-4-7331 Robert C. Walter, Jr .... , .... Managing Editor l'si llpsilon House-4-8710 Jerome Smith ................... Sports Editor Several iratemities on tile campus pre- .still e a monumen a· · m. or vive somehow by doing absolutely the first time, one can look at a but they play a good game. nothing for a living. We spoke to sen ted the ideal opportu.nit:y fm· .the fathers 'background of sky- honest- to- Well, follis, the game has now several of the hoboes. Although of their members to become acquainted with :gooo;tness sky- b~ue sky -:-.without begun. Union ·kicks off to Williams their appearance (and odorl would . . feelmg a snea·kmg suspiCIOn that and the ball is caught by Num- ward off the average reporter, we the college of their sons last weekend when. someone with cloth and a paint ·ber 37. That mysterious Number found that they have an unusually thev held Father's Weekend. brush has man~factured it. The 37 from Williams who wouldn't give optimistic philosophy, though they Kappa ~u Huu~e-4-7331 Robett A. ~aaf ................... News Editor 1133 Purl<woot! Lllvtl.-4-G1S2 H. Wyman Hitchcock ....... , .. ,, .Copy Editor ·, . , sight fills one w1th an over.power- us his name. Don't know who that ·do not understand what the word 1 he fathers arrived on Sat ut·day, went to lng sense of gee-what-progress- boy is. Well, he got the ball, but \philosophy\ means. Their living ·the Williams game and spent :the rest of the· we've-made and sends one home the cagy Union boys stopped him, expenses are niL A loaf of bread, · .' . . . . admitting that Men With Wings nght on Union's own 3 yard line. ·some wa:ter and a few hand 1 ,olled day and the evenmg with then· sons, after is t:he best color film to date. Good old Union. Here comes the •cigarettes will la::;t them a week Dell..t TJp~ilon House--4-79~2 John Malone ............... Circulation Manager lt191 Key<•s An:.--·I-G931 REPRESENTED POR NATIONAL ADVERTISING SV National Advertising Service, Inc. d . · t t·h · h Th principal o~ the Elizabeth Junior Th h \th b k mmg a· · e varwus ouses. • e programs· The story .points out the heroic or more. ey s ave w1 ro en f M 'll d h d High School, my home .town. Give ·glass, sleep on ·straw and stew for Sunday included attendance at the Sun- qualities 0 Ray 1 an • a ar - him a big hand, fol'ks. Hiya, k . 1g fello who spends his weeds when the food supply is low. d Cl I P d d ' h war n w . Prince. ay 1ape rogrrun an :1nne1· at t e: time improving the output of the 'One hobo had never seen a movie, College Pu.blishers Representa#t:e 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N, Y. Ctu ... A.GO ' BOSTON • LOS ANGEioES • SAN FnA!UISCO houses, after which the f 2 thers took their Falconer Airplane Construction Let's see, now. Who has the ball? hadn't read a paper in years, and co. while the president of said Oh, yes, it's that mysterious Num- the only national figure he had · leave. ·company is off in Europe, or Africa, ·ber 37. 1 don't know who he is. heard of was Fvanklin -Roosevelt. We wish to conlmend the Beta Theta Pi or some other God-forsaken place Wait a minute, folks, the Williams We can partly understand why he .in search of excitement. Ray stays spotte1· says his name is SMITH. 'is happy. We told the group that and Chi Psi fraternities f<Jr their excellent home and protects Falconer's wife, He is from Elizabeth, New Jer- they lived in the neighborhood of practice, which is becoming an annual af- ·but she thinks her husband is just sey, my home town. an institution of higher learning, grand and can't see poor Ray for Boy, bring me a hotdog. I Uke Union College. They had never fair with these houses. The benefits of the di·rt. In the end, when the hus- hot dogs. WESTERN UNION! heard of us. We actually got one plan are obvious. We feel that more of band gets himself killed, she still Bring me the scores, please. We are of the brighter hoboes to return to loolts upon him as the patron saint going to give you the scores of all the campus, showed him the build- JWlior Editorial Board C. Russell Deyo George L. Peck Christopher M. Fahy Larry Pellettier J•:•lwln A. F>lz. Jr. ----------- Sophomore EditOl'ial Board Paul Bet'lu:•r, H.iehard H{_~n~ .lii, J(Jhll Le\\ ~~. John l'hilip:-~, ~lortimt>r ltPhin~. Hobert :-::l'hullwrg, La::;kar ~, ... }w\'·art. Jr mt•:-o E. Tv.;ining. Business Staff ltnhel't Eisner Jack Hahinowitz, William l'oale~. .\rma11d Peigel'tbn.um, ~tanle>y Greenstein, An<ly Kay, Ju~tin ['erlsteut. \V1lliarn Youug, llonaltl Haigh, Arthur lla\·1~. ____ -~-- Issut' Editor .............. Christoph<.>r !li. Fahy Copy D<.>Sii Editors .l l'hillll·~ .J. T\\iniug Tuesday, November 1, 1938 CONGRATULATIONS! To the stx new members of the Social Studies Club we offer om· sincere congratu- lations. Yearly this recognition of excellence in the field of social studies is made and we feel that it fills a good purpose in encour- aging scholarship among underclassmen. Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Xi elections serve as stimuli to scholarship for seniors and such organizations as the Social Studies Club can offer encouragement to freshmen and sophomores. Needless to say, thats why we are saying it, scholarship at Union is not one of our stl'Ongest points. We can use more men like Fahy, Gertz, Eisne1·, Cornell, Sillick and Lazarus. PLAUDITS TO THE DESERVING Usually the lot of an editol'ial writer is such that he usually feels himself obligated to write series after series of scathing edi- torials I'eprimanding the college, some cam- pus organization, ot· the student body for some oversight on its part. This is a tedious and obnoxious task no matter how pressing the issue may be, so we gladly welcome the opportunity to cast aside our cloak of criti- cism for a few moments and compliment the student body and the Radio Club for their commendable enthusiasm and performance at the Williams g-ame last Saturday. A week ago, our opinions conceming the Radio Club were at a low ebb; but after its hearty coop.eration in making it a possibility for Saturday's football game to be broadcast over a public address system, its past negli- gence can be easily forgiven. We can also truthfully say that the cheering Saturday was the best we have ever heard from the l 'nion student body. It was a revelation to those who have continuously criticized us for not vociferously supporting our athletic squads, to hear the constant tirade of cheers emanating from the Union stands even when the team's attack seemed hopelessly bogged down. We hope that the future has many similar performances in store for us. FATHERS' WEEKEND The paramount duty of man is the perpe- tratioll of the human 1·ace. Throughout the ages that conception has evolved to mean not merely reproduction, but also the cultivation and improvement of one's offspring fm· the bette1·ment and advancement of the human race. Union's fraternities could take up the exam- of American aviation and shows the games, folks, if only that West- lngs, tried to explain to him the ple of these houses with gTeat benefit to no signs of coming to her senses. ern Union boy will bring me the purpose of college( about which we We don't know whether this is in- scores. Won't that be nice. ·ourselves a·re somewhat doubtful). their parents themselves and also to the col- tended to be an ironic note or My brother Joe just told me .that He said nothing till we had dis- lege. C. M. F. whether Director William Well' Williams scored another touch- played all our wares, then he said man forgot his theme in a sudden down. 1 didn't see it. Joe is a Fresh- that he did not understand why the burst of enthusiasm to prove that man here at Union, the 3rd of the world was not perfect if boys left the devil-may-care spirit is what Enzer family. He is just an earnest college with about all the knowl- helped a via t·ion to prosper. We'll young man trying to make good. edge in the world in their heads. ATTENTION SENIORS! Twenty or thirty years ago, when Amer· ican education was still in its swaddling clothes, a high school gradu.ate was consid- ered suitably qualified to .enter any field of business endeavor he might choose; but to- day, education has develoiJed to the extent that it enfolds nearly every individual that resides within the boundaries of the United States. As a result of this scholastic evolu- tion, the minimum r.equil·e111ents the average business house will accept are usually those that can be offered by a college graduate. The high school graduate. who has neither \pull\ nor unusual ability, has little chance of climbing the ladder of success without first securing a college de2Tee. We do not mean to infer that this is the only qualification that prospective employers are seeking, far from it, :personality, th€ ability to apply one's leaming, conscientious- ness, and executive ability a:re just a few of the traits they look for in all their employ- ees. The college cannot help us to any great extent in the development of these charac- teristics, but they can and do .through the medium of the Placement Bureau help us come in contact with pros;pedive employers. We are all more or less familiar with the Bureau's set-up. We know .ab<>ut \Freddy\ Wyatt's yearly visits to over 100 firms in order to keep in actual to1.1cn with business trends, of his attempts t.() bring personnel men to the campus each yea1· to interview seniors, and of the many placement discus- sions he arranges to be h-eld at the various fraternity houses throughout the school year. The Bureau's record du.ring the past three years stands on its own merits, it has obtained results. Yet, the Bmeau cannoi Qbtain positions for all the job hunting UIJion seniors with- out their whole hearted CO()peration. • Five weeks ago, a preliminary application form was sent to each member of -the present sen- ior class by the Placement Bureau. Each man was asked to fill the form ()Ut and send it back immediately in order ti'lat the Bmeau's work could start work on each senior's placement bulletin; but to- date the returns have been so scanty that it appears that the class of 1939 is not interested in procUl'ing positions after graduation. Mr. Wyatt an- nounced yesterday that NQ:vEm.ber 15 W'Ould be the deadline for seniors to fil.e these ap- plications. As this is the case, we strongly suggest that if you are interested in soli- citing the Bureau's aid in fiiJding a promis- ing position upon your graduation in June, that you cooperate with the Bureau imme- diately. probably never know. Give him a hand, folks. \You see,\ he said, \a guy who Louise Campbell makes the wife Now while the Williams team has loined all dat stuff could never seem less unreasonable, and Par- has the ball, I'll just take this be happy as me.\ ter Hall, Lynne Overman and Andy time out to tell you follts that the We could see his point. If condi- Devine handle their minor roles as goalposts on the Union field were lions force us <and you perhaps) they might be expected to. Fred made from the famous Nott Elm. to be out of work the League of MacMurray and Ray Milland are And here comes Jack Gerzov, Hoboes will be closed to us because the men who \gave to civilization folks, one of Union's all time their motto is: \God gave us the its greatest gift, the modern air- ,grates. Give him a big hand, folks. country for nothing and we want plane.\ Referee, what's the score now? 13 everything free.\ That's a pleasant The second ·feature is Vacation to 0, favor of Williams. We are idea, but we know it can't work. From Love, a Movie Quiz $250,000 certainly playing a :fine game here Well, the hobo career is out of the Prize picture. -J. M. today, folks. We can't lose. Will running. What next'? -~-o-~~ someone please get me a hotdog? How I like hotdogs! Western Pigsltin Alibis MUSIC Union, will you bring me the scores, lA Faculty Contribution Again) please. Wait a minute folks, ex- If every team had what it lacks, ~u~e me while I get some mustard No coach could ever whine: The National Opera Company, who presented Verdi's opera Rigoletto in the Erie Theatre last Friday evening, sang to the warm- est and mos: enthusiastic audience we have ever been a part of in Schenectady. The great majority of the applause was directed at Alfredo Chigi, a young Italian- American who appeared in the title role. for my hotdog. \We'd have a set of famous backs, By the way folks, I want each If we only had a line?\ and every one of you to know that vou are in viteci to attend the tea to be held in Hale House directly fol- lowing the Union victory. And here comes Dan Duval, sportswriter for the Union Star. Give him a big hand, folks, he picked Union to win. Williams is just a little bit ahead of the plucky Union team, Chigi's voice is free, expressive, folks, but we are gomg to win large, and his acting unusually this game. Yes, sir, we are going to convincing. His characterization of win this game. the ill-fated court jester was in Western Union. Please bring me the time honored and appropriate · the scores, please. I am going to buffo-type. Because of his voice give you the scores of the other and ability as an actor this thit'ty- big games. What's the score, ref- two year old artist will probably eree? Referee! Will you please sing some of the more impor- bring me the score of the Union tant opera halls In America. game! Gilda was played by another Don't fot·get, folks; there will be young Italian - American, Luisa a tea in Hale House, <by the way, Coronini. She was nervous at first folks, the Walter Bakers gave H. H. and consequently go~ off to a bad to Union College), directly follow- start. However, she recovered in ing the game. Come one, come alL time to do justice to the Cara Nome Maybe they'll serve hotdogs. aria in the second act. The support- ing cast was only fair at best but Well, it's kind <Jf crowdE'd here in made up for a lack of conspicuous the pressbox. And here comes vocal ability by thoroughly enter- Eliphalet Nott's great great great ing Into the spirit of the opera. grandson's second cousin once re- The infectiousness of their obvi- moved by marriage. Let's give him ous enjoyment of the work quickly a big hand, folks. registered with the audience. The Wait a minute. Wait a minute. less said, the better of Mr. John Why are all these folks leaving. My Chickering, who substituted for brother Joe says the game is over. the indisposed Fino Bontempi as The GAME IS OVER, folks and the Duke. It is unfortunate tha: don't forget to come to the tea in Mr. Bontempi did not sing as his Hale House. We cet·tainly played performances at the Hippodrome a good game. in New York City have awarded him considerable popularity. Signed, The Committee of 803. In such a paradise divine You'd never hear these cracks: \We'd have a country beating line If we only had some backs?\ -H.A.L. Male or Female? One of the more frank Union College students on talting a form test given by the state board of education was truthful at least in filling out the blank marked Sex. He sincerely replied \occasionally.\ Presidential Visit There were plenty 6f vacant seats at the upper end of Hale House the other night but Dr. Fox gen- erously provided the \boys\ with a treat by sitting with a group of them in the midst of the masses. We jealously looked on as Maines, Hertzmark, Stone and others were told the interesting history of the P_ictures that adorn the hall. Ques- t.J_oned about the authenticity of the p1cture o! General Philip Schuyler, long beheved to be in reality a copy of a George Washington painting, Dr. Fox replied that it was none other than the Phil Schuyler, local revolutionary hero. An intimate talk. between a col• lege student and his president is a valuable thing for both. Barriers are shattered. Each is led to realize I he basic human-ness of the other. Three Thousands Dollars f()r Candles The \New Yorker,\ that over- The ·capacity g,udience consisted of a liberal sprin•kling of green grocers, barbers, college profes- sors, and. students, as well as the usual local music devottes. Prob- ably because theve were so many native Italians present, the audi· ence knew when to clap and w-hen to be quiet. The enthusiastic \Bravo\ filled the hall after most of the arias. The whole atmosphere of the performance was reminis- cent of the smaU town Italian com- panies which have been the chief agent in rooting opera and other music into the heart and life of the entire Italian nation. clever. weekly of wit, wrote about In a high o:egree ·last Friday eve- a UnlOn College family (we are ning. If music is to become an in- requested to withhold the name) herent pa1:t of American culture that lights its Park Avenue home to the degree it has become in ·by means Of candles, running up a Italy, and we are confident that lt yearly bill of three thousands dol- eventually will, it will be due to lar~. The magazine said that the . t thi t entJre apartment, ex:cepting the Jus s SOl' of travelling com- kltchen, is without electric· sockets pany. Giving young American sing- d er.s an opportunity for practical an plugs. We take issue here with training and educating the small-. the. '_'New Yorker.\ Candles. are er cities and rural districts are the . artJshcally and profusely used but most pressing needs in America there are the ordinary number of today if we are to become a musi- electric outlets. David Light, Jr. cal nation, The big cities and well• · It would be easy to find many faults and shor.tcomings in a per- formance of this sort, bu.t that would be merely quibbling over unimportant details. The crucial thing is t·he spirit of .the artists and the enjoyment of the audience. Both of these factors were present known foreign artists can take .care of themselves. However, these opera companies would be tenfold more successful · appreciated, and Instructive if they were given in English. That Is our chief criticism of the per- formance Friday night. H. o. F. Sera'~ 'Willii Saturda~ timekeepel what migh the most : lies stagec ·:;CJappy •bowed to : Williams c .soggy Ale noon. With on maining i Dutchmen pie, 13 to ::;cored or. Union tr kick-off tc In a seri Hammers1 rotta, Fre well, the the Ephrr r\ere Jacl; from San sole mad attempt 1 bled. With .bt merstrom The ball ing put i After an Iiams dr• 35-yard li Tom Kin1 1-yard m< end zon three pas one of th to the U1 remainin; the aeria ball to whet'e th end to tt Stando W. BA,tj Hamrr contribu ing a • Union's ball wit the pass Erockm; the seco of the boots le Captain running contribt Coach < Willia up 15 fl were fa in the on nea opening '( In tl: ceived 1 ball to strom : Willian Dutchn 25 befc Willian the Un iting te We J during iron o· Head are be selecti of a 1: footb~ conse1 have· Mea mark, 24 of se:ven out o: BeE Corne 24; F• 40; B oui, : mouti <the B 3

J ~ cam- Union s true. l'eet a\ motive d., and on the :ohawll: >orders On fhe E Sche- ·shacks I' mem- n.erican 1ses to ch sur- ;olutely >Ol{e to I though would ter, we usually rh they e word living bread, i volled ~ week broken d stew is low. movie, . rs, and he had •osevelt. why he up that ~ood of ~arning, l never ?;Ot one Jturn to e ·build- tim the hich we •Ubtful ). tad dis- he said why the oys left knowl- lleads. uy who d never f condi- •erhapsl ague of because us the ~e want pleasant 't work. t of the Again) acks, ine: s backs. racks: .ing line :ks?\ {.A.L. t Union a form ·oard of least in led Sex. ionally.\ Lnt seats l House 'ox gen- ·s\ with rroup of masses. Maines, lrs were r of the ll. Ques- :y of the ichuyler, eality a >hington that it he Phil ry hero. 1 a col• . ent is a Barriers o realize e other. -s f{)r ~t over- :e about (we are l name) 1e home :ng up a nds dol- :hat the ing the sockets ere with lies are 1sed but mber of .ight, Jr. !. IDAY\ til ~E\ dy THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1938 Page Three Scrappy 'Varsity ,Bows To Strong 'Williams \'H\ In Hard-Fought Tilt Ha.rriers T a:ke 19-36 . Wi1n Over C. C. N.Y. Ca,ppiello Supervising ss in Fencing Closes a Splendid Running Season With the FiHh W.in in Six Meets . Union's unofficial fencing team Saturday, Oct. 29 - The Union .started its fall practice schedule <!> varsity harriers closed their sea- '·last week when 17 men .reported Saturday, Oct. 29~'1'he inexorable· . son with a decisi.ve win over the · for the first workout. The swords- timekeeper's watch today stopped ·:lla!=Ds assumed command _here and, City College .of New York team to- , men wil'l be coached until the Xmas what might have turned into one of, a_fter. an excha~ge of ktcks, car- day, 19 to 36, in a meet run 'Dn the holidays by Mike Cappiello, '39, a the most stirring. -last quarter raJ-. rted .tt to the Umon 32 as the quar- Van Cortland Park course in New member of the varsity team in his lies staged by a Union team, as a' ter ended. York City. year. Merton Zubres, ·;;ctappy Garnet football squad, WiUia.ms Scores Framk Melewicz, Howie Sheffer regular fencing coach, wiH return 'bowed· to a powerful and decepti-ve.. Shortly after the second period and Joe Annese tied for first place at that time to assume the helm. WiUiams College team, 13 to 6, on opened, the illphmen drove fl'om honors, foHowed by two C,CNY men, The g·roup will not face any in- soggy Alexander Field t:his after-: the Garnet 20 to the 1-yard line and then by Brad Hastmgs, Cap- , tercollegiate competition this sea- noon, ; on a deceptive, wide end-around Ed Wells, and Btl! Johnson ·of o;on but it is expected that a few Vanilier Tallies ; reverse. From bere Durrell plunged Union, tied for sixth. 1 meets will be scheduled with local With only 10 minutes of play t•e- over fot· the first score of the game, Joe Annese led the J?utchznen.; fencing clubs. Students interested maining in the 'four-th period, the and swept 1eft end for the extra amund the two lap 2 5-mtle cou:rse! ·in fencing rnay report to the gym · Dutchmen were trailing the Pux·- tally, Wiiliams leading 7 to· 0. most of the way. He st~ck close te>.: at four o'clock on any Monday or · pie, 13 to o, Williams having just Union ·brought ,back the kickoff to the hosts the f).rst ttme around. .. any Friday afternoons. Last cal'l ocored on Howie Detmer's tally .• its own 25. After three plays failed the course 'but o~ thesec-j for ·beginners will end Monday. Union then returned WHliams' to gain, the Dutchmen kicked. nd lap struck out for htmself. It I Freshmen wm i:>e given gym credit kick-off to the Garnet 35-yard line. Williams took the ball on its own wasn't long before he lost his way· for practicing each session. In a series of ·passes fi•om Sam 49, but was also forced to .kick, and had to slow down to a trot~·! Those who answered the first Hammerstr.om to :Diamond Ma- Un:ion returning the punt to its 20. aiting for the ·other men. ', caU were: Roger Busha, Max Len, rotta, Fred Patrie, and Jim Both- ·On the next play, Hammerstrom It was also reported that Brad- F.J•ank Mele and Jerry Smith, '39; well, the Nitchmen advanced to quick kicked· to the visitors' 33, \ford Hastings, Captain Wells, an<!': Robert Eisner, Jose Freire, Stan- the Ephmen's 7-yard stripe. From but Williams, on two long passes, 'Bill ~ohns<;m lost _their ley Gertz, Mossey Kuion and Alden r.e 1 e Jack vannier took a reverse reached the Nitchmen's 10. The . Desptte thts handtcap the · MuHins, '40; Robert Herman, Harry from Sam to score with Union's E~hmen being driven back, King :men were able to roll up House, Warren Kimmey, Larry sole marker .for the matinee. The tned a field goal from Union's 23, ·score. Schwar.tz and Milton Sugarman attempt for conversion was fum- which was wide. Union then took· It was the sixth engagement '41; and Abraham Bakal, Frank bled. the ball on its own 20, and worked the current season for the Hasselbacker and Sanford Thomp- \Vith .but four minutes left, Ham- its way to midfield where Coach five of which were won by son, '42. merstrom kicked off to Williams. Caldwell's forces took it on downs. · margins. The only defeat on T·he ball went out of bounds, be· Hammerstrom had just intercept- . record was the c1ose setback ing put in play on the Purple 35. ed a Durrell pass on the Union 10- the hands of R. P. L by ----0•---- Aftet• an exchange of punts, Wil- yard line, when the half ended. points, 26 to 29. Iiams drove down to the Union Molloy Stops Threat The Summat·ies: 35-yard line. The Purple being held, Union received the kickoff in the Melewicz, Annese, Sheffer, (U)· Tom Kt'ng kt'cked out on the Union th' d · d tied for first, 27:15; Crowley, (C.C.) · 1r peno , and soon pun!ed back 7 7 1-yat·d marker. Standing in his own 'to the Williams 20 when three run- 2 :2 ; Castle, tC.C.), 27:38.; Hast- end zone, Hammerstr·om tht·ew · ings, WeBs, Johnson, tU) tiec!, -mng plays failed to gain. After an- ~ three passes before Marotta snared 'other exchangtl of punts, the Dutch- 21 : 52 : Reed, tU), 28:07; J • One Of the heaves and ran t he ball h . tC.C.l, 28:15; Maut·iello, \U), 28:20. men au. possesston of the ball on 0 to the Union 28. With but seconds their own 25. Here Williams recov- ---- remaining, Union continued to use ered Hammerstrom~s fumble, and Frosh Gridders Suffer the aerial attack, and wor!{ed the appeared headed for another score. F\trst Loss 'tn Ft't;tale bail to approximately midfield Two plays later, however, Bob Mol- ''' Intra murals Football Field :Meet Eligibility: Any student is eligi- ble to cGmpete, except members o-f the freshman and varsity football squads. There is no restriction as to the number of events in which a student may participate. UNION'S ILLUSTRIOUS VARSITY X-COUNTRY SQUAD Fr<>nt n.ow: (left tO: right, kneeling) Frank 1\!Hewicz, Don Colllns, Bill Johnson and Howie Sheffer • Second Row: {!efL to rig-ht) Joe Annese, Brad H>ts'tings, Sat ::\lauriEII<>. Coach \Bill'' Ketz, Fm.ul Santora, t:a(}taln Ed \Vms aJul Bob Reed. (Gille Hoffman is absent.) CoS. MOODY OPTOMETRIST Eyes Examined, Glasses Fitted 115 B'way Telephone 6-5747 Three Doors from State St. !llllllllllliiillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll·ll.l: - - = = E SUITS § ~ ' ·. . ~ ~GLEAN:ED • PRESSED~ = = - - - - where the official's whistle put an loy, Union center, recovered a Wil- end lo the Union ra;lly. Iiams fumble on the Union 10 to Sa:urday, Oct. 29 - The Unio:n, freshman eleven bowed to th. e William College yearlings, 24 to 6, on Alexander Field today to lose its chance for an untied, unde- feated, and unscored-upon season :Poinis: To acquire the 30 en- trance .points, a group must enter an<! cotnpete six students. Addi- tional 45 points wil be distributed to the co-mpeting groups. Time and Place: The meet willl--------------- SCali for and Deliver ag § sSpeciai:College Offer 't C§§ Standout in Union Line W. BAh..Kl!. (l) and S. IRISH (I') Hammerstrom was the leading contributor to the local cause, play- ing a complete 6()..minute game. Union's stellar fullback carried the ball with his usual deception, did the passing chores, and after Larry Erockmyer left the game early in the second quarter, bore the brunt of the kicking assignment. His boots left nothing to be desired. Captain Larry Durrell, light, hard- running back of the Purple squad, contributed outstanding service to Coach Charley Caldwell's outfit. Wi1!iams and Union both chalked up 15 first downs, but the visitors were far superior in total yardage in the second half, after playing on near-equal terms during the opening half. Union Stro;ng at Start In the first quarter, Union re- ceived the kicltoff and returned the ball to the Garnet 35. Hammer- strom spun through center to the Williams 48 on the first play. The Dutchmen advanced to the Purple 25 before relinquishing on downs. Williams soon kicked and this time the Union machine went to the vis- iting team's 20 before stalling. Wil- break the scoring threat. The lo- cals booted out of danger, but Williams was penalized 15 yards for clipping, giving the latter the ball on its own 48. \Villiarns then work- ed the pigskin to the Union 36, but was forced to kick, the punt carry- ing over the goaL The period ended with Hammerstrom kicking to mid- .ield and Williams returning the ball to the Union 36. Fom1h Qua.rtex· In the fourth quarter, the Eph- men moved the ball from the Union 36 to the 3-yard line on successive first downs. It was from here that Detmer drove for the second Wil- liams touchdown. The attempt for conversion was wide, the Purple leading the Garnet, 13 to 0. At this point in the game the Nitchmen seemed to find new vigor, and staged their futile, but stirring be- lated rally. -L. V. P. Summary: LID Lewis ..................... Wood LT Kluge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Prince LG Krull . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Knowlton C Molloy . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . Howard RG Irish ...................... Head RT Baker ..... , ............ Herguth Rill Marotta ................. Bronl<s QB Amazon ................... King LH Brockmyer ..... , . . . . . . . Meehan RH: Patrie . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . Wilkins FB Hammerstrom . . . . . . . . . . Durrell Score by Peri~><ls Umon- Wnliams Union ..... , ......... 0 0 0 6- 6 Williams ........... 0 7 0 6-13 Touchdowns- Union. Vann!er; Wil- liams, Durrell, Detmer. Points after touchdown-Williams, DurrelL Substilution\-Union Guibert, Van- nier, ~orri~. 1.'homas, Balch, I<::earm:;, Bothwell, Weintraub, Burns; William\ ~1cNally, Batten, Vorys, Stetson, Pot- ter, Earle, Taylor, Silvertlrorne, Se- t.ring, King, Detmer, Duncan, McCar- thy, Abberly. Ofticials-Williams, (Michigan), referee; Dunn. (Adams). umpire; Moynihan (Middlebury), head linesman. FOOT..- B.JLLLlJl:iOO We have our fingers crossed, just hoping the campus doesn't blow up during the week. Why? Well, it's this way. Aftet' last Saturday's grid- iron outcomes, the two \bigshots\ of our five-man prognostication setup, Head Coach Nelson Nitchman and Ed. Chief Fred Hequembourg now are both tied for first place honors, with 28 correct forecasts out of 39 selections. And that just cannot be for long, we hope. Who ever heard of a newspaper editor being as clevet' as a football coach, right in the football mentor's backyard? But then there it is. Anyhow, both have consented to remain at peace until next Saturday, when the two will have the chance to outdo one another. Meanwhile, holding ·UP .the rear, with \Nels\ and Fred enjoying a .718 mark, are \Ott\ Lawrence with 27 of 39 for .69Z, Sports Ed. Jerry Smith 24 Of 39 for .615 (ima.gine a .sports editor picking only three out of seven}, and \Duke\ Nelson with 21 of 39 for .539. \Duke\ finally came out of the fog to select five and move away from the mid-way marie Results: Notre Dame, 19, Army, 7 (everyone hit the bulls-eye). Cornell, 23; Columbia, 7 (\Duke\ and Jerry fell all right). Pittsburgh, 24; Fordham, 13 (on the nose). Penn, 0; Navy, 0 (thrown out). Holbart, 40; Roehester, 0 (Jerry and Fred haven't been able to figure this one out, as yet). Swarthmore, 21; Hamilton, 6 (everybody's happy). Dart- me>uth, 24; Yale, 6 (Jerry was shot). Northwestern, 6; Minnesota, 3 <the villian enters. but no hero). B.ELLINGER PAINT CO. Arthur 'fi'lgg, :Prop. :Paints, Oils, Varnishes, Glass, Brushes and Wall raper 124! BROADWAY Your Nearest Good Laundry AMERICAN A·l LAUNDRY Ph. 4-8166 1030 Barrett St. LOUIS WASSERMAN 9UALI1Y MEAT MARKET 354 Broadway Phones 4·3364, 4-3365 In the first period it looked as though the Union cubs wei'€ goirLg to protect their perfect recol\d af. er pushing over a touchdowit·. Captain Bob Baker I·ecovered a blocked kick on the Purple 15-yard line and in fe>ur plays the cubs tallied with Ed Enstice taking the ball through center for the final two yards. The freshmen could not mainta'in their lead long, what with the Pu.r- ple opening up in the seco;nd. p-e- riod to score on a pass after a. long march to the goal -line, and continuing the scoring splurge twice in the third period and on~e in the fourth. Each attempt f ~r the extra point failed. The line-up: t:nlon P .. s. Willlu .. Jns Shaw ............ r..E .......... Hearne Hill ............. LT......... Stew.art 'l\1<•rsicano . ~ ..... LG ............. H:all C'hl'istlansen ..... C .... , . Daly (Capt.) Goldblatt •.....•• R.G. . . . . Scarbe>rough. Baker (Capt.) ... ItT ..... , • .. . .. [1'1.->ln Davis ........... RIE ... , ..... Scu!l:ary Parsons ......... QB .......... , :Fislller Ilillirk .......... LH ...... ,. 1-lannork Eustice .......... R.H......... Morgan Sherman ........ FB .......... HolC\ien Substitutions- l:niou: Quigley, Clo'lve. l\ludge.___ Hallenba<'k, Killian, Klootz, and 1 1 \l'iedmwn .. CONNELLY BROTHERS DAIRY. Inc~ 1858 Hamburg St. PHONE 2-0916 be. held .promptly at 12:45 p, m. next Friday, Nov. 4, on Alexander Field. Post entries will be accepted. Events: (1) Punting for distance; three kicks, the total of which will count. (2) Punting for accuracy; punting out of bounds from the 50- yard line on three tries, the winner tl) be decided on the least total yardage from the goal-line. (3) Place-kicking for goals; each con- testant receives five tries from the 2()..yard line; the total number of successful kicks will decide the winner. (4) Place-kicking for dis- tance: total distance of three kicks. (5) Fo!\Ward pas•sing for distance: te>tal distance {)f three passes. Interested in Schenectady lt~tereJted in UNION MAURICE B. GRAUBART Tlie Jay Street Je<weler 166 JAY STREET Watch and Jewelry Repairing a Specialty PARKER and WATERMAN. PENS TRY BOWLING FOR WHAT AILS YOU The Meeting Place of Union Men 16 Alleys Billiards TABERSKI'S Next to Mohawk Hotel Lower Fuel >Costs with Try Jdhil Barcley Service Flour. Feed, Seeds, Fertilizer, Coke, Fuel Oil HIRAM J~ McKAIN CO • 306-314 Union St. Phone 4-4448 FOB :I:A>W PRICES CALL Schenectady Laundry Service 249 GREEN ST. PHONE 6·5550 20% Cash Dolsco1mt-Casb. & Oarry \UNION S·ERVIC:E by UNION MEN for UNION MEN\ CLOVERLAND CREAMERY Phone 2·4265 633 State St. 226 Not+ Ter. 204 Union St. 1009 Cbrisler Ave. FOR Plt.OMPT SERVICE 919 State St. PH.ONE 6·3456 EMPIRE THE STUDENTS LAUNDRY PHONE 4·6514 301 Green St. Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market OUR MOTTO \Quality Service Satisfaction\ 598 B'way - For Better Values - - § \For Students Who CarE\ E = = ~ G & G ! § CLEANERS § §E DYERS E = = = = - - S 12 Elm St. Phone 3- 1775 ~ - - ~llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll r.: Call for ARISTOCRAT MILK and DAIRY PRODUCTS Special Fraternity SeNice Bellevue Dairy PHONE 4-2553 -I Schenectady Engraving Co. 147 JAY ST. ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORDIENSIS GAZETTE PRESS PRINTERS

Page Four THE CONCORDiENSIS, TUESDAY,. NOVEMBER 1. 1.938 --·- NOTICES FFR Director Plac-ementBlan,ks Model Placement Bulletin Stude·nt Rally Burns WiUiams In Eff.igy . Etlllll<J~·ment J'lleeting . Describes His Work Dea~~lrn,e Set Name: Hyman A. Enzer Lawrence, Semerad, Thomas, Amazon, and Henderson Speak On Thutsday aftcr·noon of this wee!> a~ 2 p. m. in the Old Chapel, ,Mr. Howard l.ee Davis, formerly of the New York Telephone Com- pany, wit! speak to the seniors on prepat•ation for seeking em-ploy- The second Union College pep rally of the year, after an un- irilpressi ve start, ended' in a blaze of glory last Friday night, when a dummy, signifying a Williams· football player, was ceremoniously burned in the center of the inter- :;ection of State and Er·ie Street.>;. . ment. Mr. Davis is the author of sevetal boolts on this subject. He . conducts special comses at ·both Cornell Universitv and the Massa- chusetts Institu 'e of Technology and has been invited to address ,:,allege gl'oups and engineering .so- .::ieties throughout the country. Following his short talk there will be D. period for discussion and questions. Assembling in front of the gym- nasium, a smaller- t-han-expected crowd increased in number raJ>id-. ly as the rally progressed, cui-: l't'<:>-l>iPd Aptitud( TPst ruinating in the long ·trek on. foot, and by car· to the aforementioned. The Association of American spot in Schenectady where a crowd Medical College's Aptitude Test wil-l of approximately 300 ~tudents be given on Derember 2, 1938. watched \Williams\ go up in The test should be taken by all tlames. :;tudent:; who expect to apply for. David Yunicll, president of the. enttance to a medical school by Student Council, who planned the fall of 1939. The test has been formal pm·t of the evening's pro-: adopted by the association as one gram. acted as muster of cer~- of the normal requiremen:s for ad- monies aftet the crowd had assem- mission. H measures one's ability to lear·n material similar to that wh!dt bled around lhe huge bonfire on he will have in medical schooL It the north end of Council Field. also meaeu1 es hi.s genera-l in for-. Following a :;hort cheer, a song and a welcome. Yunidl introduced natton and scientific backgro md Coach \Nels\ Nitchman. who spoke ~nd his ability to draw accmate !one! us ions ft 1m a given set of brietly on the promising chances data. of a Union victuty and the effect::; of encouragement such as was be- Students should make applica1it•n ing showu by the ,tudents in the immediately to the OfiC'E' of th • recent home games. In the absence Deaa. The time of the test will bt of \Chip'' Dain. captain of the 1S34 Friday, December 2, at 3 p. m. This Union varsity team, the last to con- is the mlly 'ime the test will be quer the Purple, who was sche l- o;iven this r\'ar. The place of the uted to :5pealt. .ttalph Semerad, e:o;t will be Bailey Hall, Room 300. Union '35, an All-American znen.- A fee of one dollar is required of tion. gave a shott pep talk telling each student taking the test, pay- of the ancient nvalry betw€en al>le at the time the test is taken. Union and Williams. Art Law·- rence, Captain \Jal1e\ Amazon. Billy Thomas, and Donald Hender- son were the remaining speakez·s introduced by Yunich, before the crowd left for its march \to town.\ The scat·city of students at this point made a trip to Schenectady doubtful, but, as the crowd r·efuscd to disperse and steadily increased in number, tt wasn't long before tll.e shouts wete nngmg from Unz\n Street, then Jay :::itz eet. and Jltully SiatP StrPPt. Stopg we>rP made in front of Proctor's, Theater and un- der the Railroad bridge for· snort cheers before the ceremonies at Erie Blvd. concluded the evening's rally. tl.30 p. m itiation Hou\e 0--~--. CAL:KSDA1t Today ,-111 L<· a Kappa In- and Dinnn, Hale 7:4fl p. nL Garnt•l KPy Meet- in?:. Student Activitic>d Office. Tomorro\V 10:00 a. m Daily A.sseml>Iy. Chester H. Robinson. '40, Garnc>t Key Society. 7.00 p. m \VnrcP~t<>r Tl'rh Alumni A>'sociatlun Dinne1, Hair HousP. -; 3\J ]J. m. Student Coun-cil Meeting, Old Chapel. S.CJO p. m. -Sigma Xi Lecture, E!ectl'ical Engineering Build- Ill~. Hcn1y L. Hubal t, Gen- eneral Elect1·ic Company. Thm•sda~· 10:00 a. n1. -Daily Assembly. Mt·. H. B. Marvm. '15. Gen- eral Electt ic Cotnpauy. 2:00 p. m.- Employment .Me€1- mg of Seniors. Old Chapel. 7 00 p. m. Torch Club Dinn('r, Hale House. 1.30 p. m. Schenectady Engi- neez ing S\ciPties Open For- um, Room 106. General Engi- neenng Building. Pyramid Club Meeting, Silli- man Hall. Thf'ta Nu Ep,;ilon Meet.ln~. Dt. Ligon's Office. :\!t•t!'s Club, HHle Hcu>e I .. uungt· x 30 p m. Torch Club. Old. Chap<>!. Mr. Gar·dn~.r Kline. Friday 10 00 a. rn Daily Assernb ly. Dr. Elmer A. Tidmaz·sh. ---------~ ---- Composite Records Varsity Cross-country Won. 5. Lost. 1. Points sc01 ed, 117. Oppo- nents seated, 213. Freshman Football ~Won, 3. Lost. 1. Points scored. 3K Opponents scored, 24. Varsity F-\ootball -Won. 1. 'Tied. 1. Lost. 3 Points sron•d. 67 Op- potwnt~ scor·ed. 70. Bellevue Quality Bakery 2625 Broadway Phone 4-(;248 BREAD- ROLLS- PASTRY ~III>P-llp Tests Registration for make-up tests o be given Monday, November 14, must be completed at the Office of the Dean before 5 o'clock. Tues-day, :-<ovember R Students must obtain 1t the Dean's Office a slip to be 'igned by the in<'tructor- giving the ·out~<'. return the slip to the office, md pay a l'egistration fee of one dollar. PAUL WHITEMAN Every Wednesday F.ve1ti1Zg (;!'ORGE GRACIE BURNS ALLEN Every h'iday Et•etthJe All C. fl. S. Statio11s EDDIE IJOOLEY Foothnll Highlights l:'vPry Tlwrsda.vallcl Satttrdtiy .'i2 l.eadi\C N. B. C. Statio:zs l'n Chapel Tal:k Foril\lov. 15 College Address: H South Sec- : tion South College, Union College, :.!Jchenectady, N. Y. Forum Series Offers Opportunity For Free Expressions ef Ideas The open forum is the answer to the dictatorships, according to· Mr. Sidne;,· Greenbie, director of .he Federal Forum Project for· this -region, in describing his work in the daily assembly Saturday .norning. Mr. Greenbie called his work an ~ttempt on the part of the govern- ment to gain an expression. ·of the people in contrast -to the totalitat'ian stRte where the people are shut up. 'The discussions were first· i-n- stituted ·by D~·. John W. Stude- baker. commissioner of education, when hP was school superintend- ent in Des Moines, fowa. He car- ' ied th.- idea into his present po- sition and there are now fifteen forum sections throughout the country in as many states. His particular section includes forums in the <·ities of Schenoctady, Sar- :ttoga, Gloversvil:e. and Troy. The aim of the forum, according to Gre~nbie, is to aid the p\ople in f!'etting at the facts of the topic. 1 he subject matter is unlimited and the time of each participant is also unlimited I ~reenbie finds the 1·eactions of the groups always different. Often there will be well defined groups in the foz·um, but toward the en<i of the discu~Fion they very often ter;d toward tht> s11.me viewpoint. This is the value of the forum, that it is bring-ing about a better under.standing-. He ::;aid that it was a special concern of youth to make usP of these forums. 0 Schmidt to Address Chemists Dr. Frederic C. Schmidt, Assist- ant Professor of Chemistry, will speak to the Chemistry Club to- night at 8:00 P. M. in the Butter- field Chemistry Laboratory on the properties of liquid ammonia. Dr. Schmidt will discuss his research problem and illustrate his lecture All Seniors Requested To 'File Applica:tions W-it-h F. A. Wya:tf Home Address: 21 Orchard St., ;_Elizabeth, N.J. The ·deadline ror return of place- Ready to Stat•t Work: June 15, ment bureau blanks for the mem- · 1938. bers of the senior class is Novem-: ber· 1o, Frederic A. Wyatt, place- Desired Location: New York City ment ,burea.u ·dir-ector, announced· or• New· Jersey. tl'lday. T'he forms fot: the n.ece.ssaty · mfot rn11-tion were di.stril>uled to Pteparatory School: 'l'h<Jmas Jef- the mer.nbers of the senior class fetson High School, Elizabeth, N.J. ove;· a ·lh.onth ago, Wyatt said,: ®------------~~~-- and ma.ny have not yet been re-, Entered Union In: 1934 turned. ln following out .the practice of · College Course: Bachelbr of Sci- the past few years, the Place- ence. Major: Soaia:l Studies. ment Buteau is arra1:1ging a series . of spe!Llters to visit the campus : Scholastic Record \ qua1•ter· of and g.ire guidance to .the men of' ·class based on 3 1 }2 years' work): the senli.or class. The flrst of these. First from top. will talt e place on Thursday after- : · noon i·n the Old Chapel at 2 o'clock,: Desired Field of Work: W1•iting. the speaker being Mr. H. L. Davis.· Hobbies: Reading. On November !4 Dean .A.lex:ander . Dualism Is Present ln World ofT oday Says·Va n Santvoord Hotchkiss Headmaster Speaks Sunday In Chapel Service of the Albany Law School will ad-.· Extra-Curricular Activities: Edi- dress 'Interested .seniors, and on: tor of college newspaper. Member Novernll>er 21, Dean cunnitJ.ghazn of .ot Student Council, Hale Club It is a curious fact that in living the Albany Medical School will (honorary English Club), Drama- as we do, we are Jiving in two , k t d t d t worlds, Dr. George Van Santvoord, spea · o0 pt:e-me s u en s. tics, Terrace Council (Senioi· hon- M \\h w t ••t headmaster of the Ho!chkiss School r. 'L ornas a erman \ , ·now. ot•ary group), Freshman and Var- t d 'th th G h d B ·remarked in his address during connec oe wr e rey oun us slty Baseball, French Club, Mem- Lines is scheduled to speaclc. to those, ber of two social problem.s club\. Sunday mor·ning's chapel services. interested in tranSJlOl\tation. On . Dr. Van Santvoord, a Yale grad- Decernil>er 7. Mr. Wanen F. Eo we. Health: Excellent Physical Con- ·llate and son of Seymour Van of the Phoenix Mutual Li:fe Insur-, · dition. .Santvoord, Union College alumnus. >nee Company, is to visit the -cam-, explained that the philosophers pus, and on December 13. Dr. Her- Date of birth: July 29, 1916. call this fact of living in two man Cooper, of the ·state- Depart- 1vorlds, dualism. There is a great ment o:f Education, will talk to a Height: 6 ft. 1 in. Weight: 180 differenc.- betwe!'n appearance and group of students intm·ested in 1 bs. reality and it is most important teaching Poition of college expenses earn- that in every phase of life we There are uowardO< of 900 firms ed (four years): Working 67~. I>ierce the shell of the one world listed ·in t-he flies, with their .ad- -or outer life and get a v.iew of Scholarships 33~. dresses,. names of their personnel 'Inner life and reality. directors, and the success Union Employment Record: Publicity Men see each other doing many has had in placing men there. work for the Mohawk Drama Fes- things, explained Dr. Van Sant- ------------- tival; ~eporting for the Schenec- voord, and from these appearances, with. slides. All interested are wel- come. Twezt ty-five students will visit the N•!Ell.gara Hudson Coke Plant in Troy U1is afternoon.. This is the first regular inspection trip of the year. Those interested in the rest of the i:rips are requested to watch the bulletin board in the Chemistry Building for further notice. ta.dy Gazette. judgments are formed. Yet ,tb.e ---0,---- Tennis Tournarne:nt Third round of each bracket must be completed on or before next Friday, Nov. 4. Ea.ch forfeit will result ii a 10-polnt deduction from respective totals. men seldom know the inner lives or •beings of their fellow men and form judgments much too hastily. In all life then, Dr. Van Sant- .voord said in conclusion, there is a l!ontrast between the inner world of truth and pe1·manenre and the Inconstant outer world which 1e- .ve;:tls only appearance. . . . how fast that says it for smohers .... refresh- ing mildness ... better taste ... more pleasing arom~ ... everything you could ask f~r in a cigarette hesterfield , , more pleasure for millions Copyright 1938, LtGGB11' & MYERs TonAcco Co. Dav Se Pl. Z-5.11 --- --- Vol. L: Coll4 Offi ·On< Ma Fox to Tonigh On 'G Appro eluding of the Officers Schenec held un College. gates oi firm,; a.r· All hot conferei lions at the can quarten Curler. The p \the pr member of infoi !ems,\ : table d cussion:: topics f as \Fol adjustm dents \i BecausE cies.\ 'I cussion acterist Busines tron to ful Per: H.• The ' register lowing of the ( was fol plant. the su t·ead. meetin1 :;ions w At 7 dele gat for a Fox wi this tin for a C will be ner me The tomort Hotel ' will be row. Yah Of Giv Ge Co By The cated been E severa queath Otto B The years' collect the git of Wi dent I s. c. at Uni The valuat a suli from Mine ores f of sp Furar: Also i mens On tar and c The the c that~ teach hibitil ter u now 1 Colle< a sel<

ord living n two School during grad- Van two great and we world of many San t- tl).e ives or n and Sant- is a world nd the te· UNION COLLEGE UBHAH; • Ninerals I Davis Advises Seniors On ( StS Given To Placement I College :I: Z.5.11 Vol. LXII., No. 14 UNION COLLEGE, SCRENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1938 PRICE FIVE CENTS College Pe·rsonnel Officers Meet . Bills For Garnet Sittings ·On Campus Today Many Delegates Here Fox to Address Group Tonight in Hale House On 'Goal of a College' Approximately 75 delegates, in- cluding members and invited guests of the Eastet·n College Personnel Officers Association are meeting in Schenectady today in a conference held under the auspices of Union College. Over 25 colleges and dele-· gates of several large commercial firm,; a·re 1 epresented in the group. Although Union is spon,oring the conference, and several of the func- tions are slated to take place on the campus, the conference head- quarters will be at the Hotel Van Curler. Purpose Outlined The purpose of the conference .js \the pt·ofessional improvement of members through the interchange of infotmation on common prob- lems,\ and in this respect, round table discussions and panel dis- · cussions will be held .. Included as To Be Sent To Fraternities !BiLls for Garnet sitting fees will be rnaile d to f•at.ernities shortly, lP hi l.i.p Duchscherer, Clu~ii·man of the Student Tax t:ommittPr aruwunced recl'ntly. This charge of $5 :for each ftaternity was suggested an·d sanctioned by the 'l'ax Cmnmit- tee in its heat·ings on activities ·budgets l~st spring when the G:unet budget was brought up for consideration. Payment of this fee must be made at, or prior to tile time of the sittings for the photo- graphs. Ernt>st Allnut, Editor of the Garnet, hitS indicate.d. that he plans to start photo- graphing the fraternities in approximately tPn dsvs. -------------- Garnet Key Work Subject of Talk By Robinson. •40 Speaker Also Describes College Chapel Bells And Their Operation Father F. JoSheeha:n To Spea:k Sunday In Memorial Chapel Is Popttlar Lecturer 'Christ in Libedy', Plea Against Communism To Be Subject of Talk The Rt. Rev. Msgr. Fulton J. · Sheehan vvlll be the guest of the Catholic Cha·rities Association Sun- day evening in ).!emotial ChapeL Msgr. Sheehan, who will speak on the \Ct·isis in Liberty,\ a plea against communism, is one of the foremost Catholics .tn the world to- day. He has written over 15 books and is referred to in the \London Universe\ as \the new Catholic: philosopher of the age\ and \the most popular Amel ican speal<er ever to come to England.\ He is assistant pwfessor of philosophy at Catholic UDiversity and was chosen last year by University of Califor- nia as the outstanding 'speaker of the year. He has lectured ln every major city in the United States as well as ·rnany cities abroad. Last summer he appeared as a principal lecturer at Cambridge University while on a lour of the British Isles. topics for round table discussions ·Wednesday, Nov. 2-Chester H. as \Follow-up and Vocational Re- Robinson, '40, spoke in daily chapel adjustment of Alumni,\ and \Stu- this morning on two topics. \The dents Who Are Difficult to Place first subject on which I will speak,\ Because of Personality Deficien- he said, \you will find above your Is J?apal Chamberlain cies.\ The topic of the panel dis- heads.\ He then described the cussion is to be \Personality Char-· :chapel bells and the means by Msgr. Sheehan has received many Whl .ch the are operated degrees and prizes in the centers acteristics of College Graduates in· Y • Business and Industry: Their Rela- Robinson's second topic was the of learning throughout the wol'ld and in 1934 was appointed Papal twn to Successful and Unsuccess- · Garnet Key organization, of which ful Performance.\ he is president. \This body was Chamberlain by Pope Pius. formed last year to be the official He has been making radio bl'oad- .welcoming body of Union College,'' casts for twelve year, nine years Itoun<l Table Discussions The delegates to the conf-erence he said. It consists of lif~een mem- with the Sunday night \Catholic registered this morning and fol-, bers, with new men 8;ppomfed each Hour.\ His favorite subject today lowing registration, made a tour :yea: to fill t.he vacames left by the is commullisrn which he considers of the General Electric plant, which JUniOrs movmg up. one of t:he m.ost dangerous ele- was followed by a luncheon at the With the resignation of Mr. ments ever to threaten democracy. plant. After luncheon, reports· of .. Laurence Achilles last year, the He uses accurate communist doc- the standing committees will be task of greeting and entertaining trines in combating the communist read. An Executive Committee ·of prominent visitors, lecturers and position in the world today at- meeting and round table discus- ,guests became a problem. Besides though he fmnkly admits that :o;ions will follow. :assuming that responsibility, the some of their arguments are very At 7 o'clock this evening the· :Garnet Key has taken on many justifabie. delegates will meet at Hale House ?ther func~ions, s_o ~hat it is rap- Students are Invited to attend the for a dinner meeting. President Idly becommg an rndtspensable fea- address, hut are asked to sit in the Dance Maestro Price Of Dance Tickets Advances At Noon Monday The price of tickets for the Hamilton week - end dance, which is to be held on Novem- ber 11, will advance from $3 to $4 at noon on Monday, Robert Clark, dance chairman an- nounced today. Final arrangements for the dance are being rushed, the dance committee indicated. The decoration theme has been an- nounced as that of a football field, and the list of chaperones has been chosen. Practically all fraternities and a neutral group were represented at a drawing for booths which was held re- cently. The sale of tickets has been rather brisk, according to Clark, although he added that he would not ltnow just how many tickets had been sold until the price advance becomes effective. on Monday. Tickets for the dance may be secured ft•om Clark, or from any other member of the com- mittee. Council In Lively Dis<uss.ion Of Band's Financial D:ifficulty Appoint Investigating Committee~ Also Consider Alumni Modhly Subscription Plan for Undergraduates Wednesday, Nov. 2.--The colleg-e band was a subject of heated contl'Oversy in tonight's meeting of the Student Coun- cil which was held in the Old Chapel. ---------------11)> Because of a report filed by Her- Learned Societies Appoint Danton To Committee To Meet Tomorrow W.ill Make Recommendations For Making Grants In 'Humanities' Aid Dr. George H. Danton, chairman of the modern language depart- ment at Union College, is one of the four experts chosen by the American Council of Learned So- cieties to serve on a Special com- mittee which will meet tomorrow at the Harvard Club in New York City to make reeommendations for a new policy in making grants in aid of research in the humanities. The other members of this com- mittee are Professor William S. Ferguson of Harvard University, Professor George H. Sabine of Cor- nell University, and Waldo G. Le- land, permanent secretary of the American Council of Learned So- cieties. 1 bert F . .Zuhr, 39, the band's rep- resen tali ve on the Council, to the I etfect that the mu~ical urganization was facing bankruptcy, the Coun- i cii decided that the opetational ~et· up of \he band \vas ln need of t·e- vi,;ion and a eommittee headed by Robert Hayner, '39, and consisting of Frederick J·. Patrie, '•!0, Louis J. Carr, '40, Frederick Hequem- bourg, '3\l ancl Zuhr was appointed to investigate the future possibili- ties of that organization. JIIIans Freslunen According to Zuhr the reason for the band's pre.,ent financial dtlemna was the large number of freshman candidates this year. He stated that in the past the majority of the freshm.en had been willing to forfeit their gymnasium deposit in order to help defray the cost of then· uniforms; but this year as less than half had done this, the cost of th~ 24 ne\v unifonns had been con- sidet·ably :more !han was antici- pated. Fat· this reason the band's present budget has proven insuffi- cient to defray this year's ex- per.se~. according to Mr. Zuhr, and he requested thal the C'ouncii vote his organization an additional two hundred doiiars for this current season. :New \Uniforms Discussed Fox will address the delegates at ture of the college. balcony. this time on the subject \The ·Goal ------------------------------------------------- The purpose of this committee is to determine a new policy to be pursued in the awarding of grants. The American Council of Learned Societies offers a limited number of grants to individual scholars to assist them in carrying on definite projecw of research in the burr.an- istic sciences: philosophy; philology, literature and linguistics; archae- ology and art; musicology; histc.ry, especially ali branches of cultural and intellectual history, but ex- clusive of those branches that are essentially social, economic and po- litical history; and auxiliary sci- ences. This ann.ouncernent brought forth a great deal of adverse criticism. Several members of the Council questioned Mt·. Zuhr ao to the rea- son why it was necessary to pur- .chase new uniforms each year. Zuhr replied that to his knowledge very few men abs<:!onded with the uniform.; even if there was no cen- tral rep<Jsi:tot·y for them. After sev- eral other members had commented on the fact that the band was m1.tsica!ly \poor Stanley Lulre, '39, obsetved that ]Jerhaps tile rea- son for this -was that after a man had :played for one year and thus gained his gym credit, he had no further incentive to continue as a member. Continuing on the same theme, Lu.kc stat~d that no organi- zation could give an clfficient per- formance without being composed of a considerable number of ex- perienced ·In em b e r s • President Y~tnich broLLght tho> discussion to a close by appointing the investi- gating conunittee and charging tt with the necessity of finding some way of building up the moral re- sponsibility of the band to the col- lege, If It Is to continue as a tax- supported activiJ.y. for a College.\ A business meeting: wlll be held directly after the din- ner meeting. The panel discussion will be held tomort ow in the Solarium of the · Hotel Van Curler. The conference will be adjourned at noon tomor- · t'OW. ----o--- Valuable Minerals Of Late 0. Pfordte Given To College Geology Department Collection Augmented By Rare Specimens The college mineral collection, lo- cated in the Geology Building, has been enlarged by the addition of several thousand new minerals be- queathed to the college by the !ate Otto F. Pfordte of Cairo, N. Y. The collection represents sixty years' worl{ in the Jlne of mineral collection. Union College received the gift largely thi·ough the efforu of William B. Colburn '07, Presi- dent Dixon Ryan Fox, and Dr. E. S. C. Smith, professor of Ge()logy at Union. The collection contains rare and valuable minerals, among which is a suite of azurite and malachite from the famous Copper Queen Mine in Bisbee, Arizona; c()pper ores from Michigan, and a number of specimens f·rom the Franklin Furance region in Pennsylvania. Also included is a number of s.peci- mens from the cobalt region of Ontario, including nickel, silver, and cobalt ores. The exhibit was bequeathed to the college on the understanding that a part of it would be used for teaching. and another part fol' ex- hibition purpose. To fulfill this lat- ter understanding, two cases are now being prepared in the Mineral Collection Robm, Which will :bouse a select part of the collection. Mountebanks To Present ~Adding Machine/ Tonight A \sccond·ntte\ grave yar!l Is d~pl~tf\ll In the ahon ·~~m from \Til~ Adding 1'\Ia.t>hlne.\ These grants are of two cate- gories: small grants and larger grants. The small grants are de- signed to assist research by schol- ars who are trained in scientific methods of investigation. -- .. -o--~·- Placement Counsel Given Seniors By H. L. Davis Advises Job Hunters To Seek Employment In Intelligent Manner \Are you a salesman, can you sell your services?\ asked Mr. H. L. Davis in speaking to seniors in the first of a series of talks sponsored by the Placement Bureau to aid seniors in getting jobs upon grad- uation. The meeting took place at 2 p. m. yesterday in Old Chapel. \lf you are going to sell brains you mu~t conv.ince your pro:;pec- tive employer that you have bl'ains,\ Mr. Davis said. The col- legiate job hunter has a trained mind to sell and must give a dem- Tlte actors, fr&nt Ielt to rlgollt, are ],()JI BnrrlngH u.s Sltrdlu; '!'. noitgl!t~ 0. stevenson as ~It·. Zero; ~Uss Bn.rbltl'IL l\!unger as JUditll O'(;mdJ; AlliHL !-0. CnJlun, Jr·., as A He>ad ;and An· 1lrew Spcziltli as A Young mn.n. , onstration of his abilities by going about the business of job-getting in an intelligent manner. At eight o'clock this eve.ning the • meeting the interpretive and tech- Mountebanks curtain will part on nicai di.fficulties which the play Elmer L. Rice's \The Adding Ma- pt:esents. Seven complete changes chine,\ a production which Direc- of scene are required. This prob- tor Edward L. Carroll considers his !em has been admirably met by most ambitious undertaking with .Tohn T. Boyt, of the freshman the college dramatic society. \The class, wlto has designed and exe- Adding Machine\ which was first cuted sets. Mr. Carroll has achieved produced in New York by the a real feat in properly handling his Theatre Guild in 1923 has been ac- cast of twenty-two on the small claimed as one of the worthiest Mountebanks stage. American examples of modern ex- \The Adding Machine\ drama- pressionistic drama. tically portrays the drudgery, futll- This is the tenth year that Rice's ity, and hopelessness of the small classic has been suggested as a office Vlorlter's monotonous life. Mountebanks production, but the I Philip Moellet·, director O·f the fir&t that the college thespians Theater Guild production, has writ- have been collsidercd capable of ten of Mr. Rice, \Pitilessly and pit~ inglr, with a curious conglom- eration of tenderness and scorn, he has studied the rich barrenness and ridiculous unbeaut~· of these 'white collar' slaves.\ The central figure is that of Mr. Zero, the typed serf of capitalism, who is played .by Douglas Steven- son, '39. Stevenson appeared in 1936 as Jasphet in Andre Obey's \Noah\, and took par·t last year in the Play Production Class's \Wait- ing for Lefty,\ \Coriolanus\-in which he pJa.yed tbe lead-and \Western Night\. Miss . An lie Quigley takes the part of Daisy Diana Dorothea De- GContinued on Page 4} The job-hunter must find out first of all what he wants to do, then where that kind of work is done. Mr. Davis advised students to get all the data available about companies from Mr. Wyatt or other sources, then, after acquainting himself in a general way as to what the company has to offer in his line of work, to apply for an interview. Mr. Dav:.s cautioned students against any delay in \doing the job of finding employment.\ He said there were only too few jobs to be had and that the :men who get them will be largely the ones who do the best work in job- hunting. Presidrnt Yunich pre,;:ented a res- a! uti on lo the Council asking it to give serious consideration to the poosibility o:f taxing each under- graduate one dollar each year (Continued on Page 4) 0 Tidmarsh to Feature Debussy :Selections rhe nmsic of Claude D£> bussy, fa- mous Ftench compol\er will be fea- tw:<>d by Dr. Elmer A Tid marsh in his organ t:ecttal :pt'r:Jgram on Sun- day afternoon. The recitai will be g.iven in M:emorial Chapel at 4 o'clock. Students and :herr guests are asked n<Jl to enter the Chapel during the ])laying of a selection, but are t'equested to wait until t:lle brief intermission between numbers. Due to. the large number of re- quests received, Dr. Tidmarsh on next Sunday will repeat the All- Wagner program of October 23. The progr·am: I. Eiglltlt 8pnpli01lY 7 Charles Marie Widor II. N'1.tugcs tCloudsl, Claude Debussy M:euuet .. Claude Debussy La Fille Aux Clteveux I>e lin . ; Claude Debussy A.lldaute from String Quartet ... Claude Debussy IIL G rnt~.de Piece Sym- [)bonique ... Cesar Franck

Page Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, '1!9:38 Qlnurnr subscribe to the wor-thwhile magazine pub- lished for them. It is therefore apparent that the circulation or the l\Ionthly needs bolstering. L CuUs From the Pr~ NOTICES All membN'S and cantiidate mem- bers of the swimming team are re- <Juested by Couch Joseph WheaUey to t·epott t0 the 'Tt ophy Room .in Alumni Gymnasium at 4:00 o'cloclt t-his afternosn. It is ·extremeLy im- pot!ant that all men be present. FouNDED t&77 \:1. Causa Persa Parol~ Assai\ ~!ember uf the Associated Collegiate Press a'iiil lli~tr1hutor of tlw Collegi.ate Digest. Tile offkial newspaper -of the students of Union College. Published Tuesday and Fridays through- tlUt the er1l:L~ge ;year. Editorial ltooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Cam- !Hts. •relephone. Schenectady, 4-0133. l'nblieaUon Offi(e, The Gazette Press, 334 ·state St .. Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Ell tend at tht Sehenectauy P-ost Office as Second Cla~s lllail Matter. Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States_. _. __ Senior Board Frederick W. Hequ.embouvg ..... Editor-in-Chief Psi Upsilon House-4-R710 Max Len ..........•..•.... , .. Business Manager Kappa Nu House-4-7331 Robert C. Walter, Jr •........ Managing Editor l'si Upsilou House-4-871 0 The above reasons were sufficient to con- vince many of the Council members that each student should start contributjng to the Alunmi lVIonthly now. :But it has postponed acti~m for a month h1 the hopes that any opposition to the pl·(}l)Osal will show itself by then. The Conco:rdieHsis again opens its. \In The Mail\ colum11 to any member of the college who wishes to be heard on this sub- ject. The Council has given you a chance to voice your opinions, .and if you as i11terested undergraduates do ll()t take the 0p'[i)ortunity, · then we feel that y()tl wil'l have no plausible excuse to hoUe1· \tax:aUon without represen- tation.\ America was headed for tile hills stand why .l\:mericans swal:lowed' last Sunday night after Ot·son whole the Nazi· att:odty stories. The Welles' realistice broadca.st over .Federal Communications Commis- the Columbia system of an a.ttack sion s: arted an investigation to as- hom Mars inspired by H. G. WeBs' certain whether the .program tax:ed \World of Tomorrow.\ Wlty such too greatly the Amet•ican imagina- 9. hysterical reaction shouTd have tion. ·been engendet ed by so pa.tently a They found that the form of the :antastic tale is beyond •O>Ur com- broad·cast c<>nsisting as it did of prehension and we were dellcied a news ·flashes, dramatic interrup• psychological explanation o·f the tions while studio officials valia·ntly worki·ng:; of the mass mind because cat'!'ied on in face of disaster and· Dr. Ligon, who holds the ·key 1o the chaos would. .put a front line hero mystery, found it impossible \<1 give to flight. After thtcc weeks of news us audience. rla:;hes from Europe in the recent Sentimentalists gt ew moist un- war score, America got to expect der the collar as they described In news ftashes of dire events portend- colorfu1 language the hum done ing havoc and t·uin. And when to nervous sys.ems by such teFrify- they did come, they didn't stop to ing exposition. They poinle.l out analyze them; they ran. Indig- the fight they had waged to· keep nant householders caHed up the the gangsters, gunmen, otrtinous police department demanding· gas international spie:; and otnet· !lora maslts, Belonging'=' were quickly :mel fa una of the underwo-rld from assembled and th.e !light to the perverting and unbalancing the for·est starte.J. A:ll sophomoi'f's interesting in becoming candidate manager.;; for varsity hasltetball are asl{ed to re- port to F1 anlt Ft·edericks at the Beta Thet Pi house. 'l'he Classical Club will meet on Tuesday evening at 7:30 at the home of Dr. Kellogg. All intet·ested students are invited to attend. Bills .for ·second quarter dsrmi- tory room ·rent, payable on or be- fore November 15, ha\'e ·been sent to all dormitory residents. Coopera- tion in the matter of prompt .pay- ment is .tequested·. .Pre-MPd A•ptitude 'iieHt 'ThP Association of AmPrican Medical College's Aptitude Tes·t will be given on Decembet· 2, 193~. 'The test should be Ltken by all students who expect to apply for entrance to a medical school by fall of 1939. Jerome Smith ....... _ ........... Sports Editor Kappa Nu House-4-7331 Robert A. Saaf. .................. News Editor 1133 Parkwood Blvd.-4-6182 H. Wyman Hitchccck ..•.......... Copy Editor Delta Upsilon House-4-7922 COLLEGE BAND John Malone ............... Circulation Manager 1091 Keyes Ave.-4-6931 REPRESENTED FO ll NATIONAL. ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College p,b/ishers Re{>resetllalive 420 MADISON AVE, NEW 'YORK, N, 'Y. CHJC.ACO ' 9CSTOH ' Log ANGELES .. SAN FRANCISCO Junior Editorial Bca1·d The action of the b~md in petitioning the tax committee for an additional two hund1·ed dollars to enable it to remain financially sol- vent for the remainder of the yea1· lJrings the problems of that activity to the fore for impt·essionable minds of youn.gsters ! W•E missed the broadcast so it is on childt en's-hour t:adio .porograms. impossible to tel'l how it would They wete willing to carry on the have affecte.J US .. but certainly a figllt to ptotect the creduloas, un- HEALTHY mind should be able to discriminating ma.\ls mind. endure subjective portrayal of that Germany's DPl' Angr.iff 9tated nature, however vi!!orous and re- thlt it could now readil)· under- alistic. '~. C. Retartyk. Dear Sir: IN THE MAIL II THE HEAL THY ANIMAL II Students should make application immediately to theOffice of the Dean. The time of the test will be Friday, December 2 at 3 p. m. This is the onh time the tPst will be given this' year. The place of the test will be Bailey Hall, I{.oom :JOU. A fee of one dolltu is required of .each student taking the test, pay- able at the timP the test is taken. M!al~t>-up Trsts C. Russell Deyo George L. Peck Christopher M. I•'ahy Larry Pellett!er Edwin A. 1<'1tz. Jr. Sophomore Editorial Board !'nul B~cker, Hichard Henyan, John Lewis, John l'hilip•. :\Iortimer Hnbins, Hobert Srhulberg, Laskar ~nhwart. J::: n1es I-OJ. Twining. Business Staff Hobert Eisner, Jack Hahinowltz, \Vllliam Coates, Armand 1-'eigenbaum, Stanley Greenstein, Andy Kay, J u\till l 'erbteill, William Young, Donal<! Haigh, . \rthur Ila\'1~. Issue Editor .................... Larry l'('lletier Copy Desk Editcrs .la}j.)<)H tl ttn.\tt~ll ·n zt.Il!\\lf.l:-:: ··1 ..;!\\drl ·r Friday. November 4, 19:38 YOUR OPINION IS SOLICITED The present Student Council has the powet· to wield more vested authority in the field of student gove1·nment than any previ- ous campus governing agency has enjoyed in the past five years. Last yea1·, for example, before the functional constitution was pass- ed, the student body had the constitutional privilege to review any bill 01· action of the Council. Under the present set-up, the Coun- cil has the final say. Wednesday night an important resolution dealing· with the Alumni ~Ionthly was pre- sented to the Council for its appl'oval. The proposition seemed worthwhile to many members and as alumni and administrational interests were strongly in favor <Jf its adop- tion, a less foresighted group might have given the item its immediate approval. But because the resolution affected every Union undergraduate, the Council tabled the mo- tion until its next meeting and in the mean- while it hopes to sound out st1.1dent senti- ment and vote accordingly. This is a sound example that the present functionally organ- ized Student Council does and can give bet- ter government to Hs electorate than the old athletically controlled body did. The resolution as presented has many merits. At p1esent if an alumnus desires to subscribe to the Alumni 1\Ionthly, he must donate two dollars a year to the coffers of the Graduate Council. If the resolution as submitted is passed, each student will be assessed one dollar each of the four under- gl·aduate years he spends at Union and upon gmduation he will receive the Alumni Monthly for fom· years. It takes no mathe- matician to decide that this is a great sav- ing. Moreover, money usually flows freer while a man is in college than after his first few years as an .alumnus. So financially, the offer is .sound. Secondly, we must admit that no college is g1·eater than its alumni. Yet, alumni can- not share their prestige with the college if they have severed all connections with their und.ergraduate haunts. Union has only a few ways of maintaining alumni interest and probably the Alumni Monthly is the great- est selling factor of all. We are told that Union ha.s 6,000 living alumni and only 1,600 the consideration of the college. The present. Who i~ this chap Henry c. Mead- budget allotment to the band is four hundred ow:; '42 whom you credit with the ~onstruction of the Moantebanks and seventy-five dollars; this sum has al- 1 evolving stage? lConc ordien•is, ready been spent in paying off a deficit of November 1, 1938.l I thought I did it! one hundred dollars incurred last year and Vety truly yout·:-;, buying new uniforms. Bec-:1-use of the ex- Henry c. Meadow, ·-10. Things 1ve heard about since our latt'st The poorest sports of the week: the D U's who refused to sil in their own seats at the William• game . . \What D. U. is piclting Registration for ma.ke-up tests to be given Monday, November· 14, must be •completed at the Office of the Dean before 5 o'clock, Tuesday, N ovem her 8. Stud.pnf s must obtain at the Dean's Office a slip to be signed by the instructot· giving the com se, retm·n the slip to the office. and pay a l'l'g:stration fee of one dollat· . pense necessary fo1· the maintenance of the band the Student Council ve1·y wisely ques- tioned whether or 11ot the band is satisfac- To the Editor: up a shekel or two a,; an agent for Cannot som<>thing be done about legal beverages 7 . . . Herb Fox, the atrocious chapel mamters of It II torily run from an administrative stand- point, and whethet· or not the band is of enough importance to the college to justify the expenditure of six hund1·ed dollars yearly on it. Union men? while playing hockey in prep scho0l . M O T I O N After all, college is suppo~ed to once, made ~ goal for the opposing _ impart at least a venee·r of cultm·e. team. Jim. Mulcare did the t!::=============:!l. but if we use the chapel manners same thing. Both against the same of the average Union m~n as an te\lm .. Eob Kilmer broke two This week the ~creen at Ptoctor's cinemporium abounds in innova- tions of varying degrees of unim· pot tance, the foremost of which is a trailer for next week's issue of Lhe March of Time. Done up in the accepted grandiloquent style, it advertises a ft-at ure on th·e famous Maginot Line which is guaranteed L o be amazing, colos:;aJ, stupendous et al. If thls continues, the news· example of the advantages of a col- lege educati<m, out· argtLment for pairs of eyeglasses on succeeding college training is very we~k. in- night.;;. On Friday night he was deed. wtestling with l1is girl and his The band has ma.ny problems which a1·e peculiar to it. It i:; composed largely of freshmen since th~tt class may substitute band for gym credit. These men usually drop out after the gym r•equirement has been satisfied, thereby leaving the band with the task of training an almost completely new unit each year. Instead of having to blend in What a gratifying sight it must glasses fell downstairs. Cn Satur- be for a guest speaket· to behold the spectacle of our distinguished day night he drove hb car ovet· Pt exy •tanding fully a rn:n:ute on another pair. Nire going, Bob ... the platform befot'e there is Slip-o-the-lip of the week: Prof. enough of a semblance o:f order in chapel so that he may seal himself. \Vhy President Fox doesrn't go into a tirade against this dilato:ty con- duct, I cannot comprehen~. :He cer- tainly would be more ti1an justi- a few new pieces with a tJ·ained group of fied. h 1 d f ed b . - After all, with the new \fire-bel!\ veterans t e ea ers are ore to eg-Jn anew system which insureS' prompt dis- with a group of fit·st year men. Hence the missal of classes, students have b d , . tt · h I' 1 d · h fully 10 minutes to get frorn their an ne\ et a ams t e po lS 1 an pmse t at recitation room to chape 1 it it would were it made up of a large number should tal'e fully two minut.es to f f • reach there from the most dtstant o veteran per ormel's. point on the campus. Ther-e is no There is no compulsion attached to parti- cipation in the band, and the1·e is no financial reward for the stu.dent leaders. Hence, the makeup of the band is so uncertain that ac- cording to Mr. Zuhr, the student leader, it is not known until JS'ametime just how many men will turn up to play on a Satmday after- noon. necessity for chatting to the last minute on the chapel steps, or get- ting the last possible \d~ag:\ from a cigarette. If you diseover that you can't get to chapE>l on time, why n.:~t give Prexy, and the general reputation of Union a b1 eak by sta:yin g away that day. As for that garden vari et~- chapel criminal that is below contem.pt. the fellow who talks through the ·entire exercises-- especially during Customarily., new uniforms are purchased Dr. Tidmarsh's organ recital pro- grams-well, in my estimation, with the gym fees ()f the freshman members words cannot be used in the Con- of the band; these men signing a release eordiensis that might apply to this. Yours. which enables the 'ba11d to secure their fees. This year there al'e twenty-four freshmen in the group. The band purchased each a new uniform, paying for them with its tax funds. Zuhr repm~te<l that a large number of the freshmen had either already obtained gym equipment, or did not care to surrender theiJ· equipment f()r a band uniform. Hence, the band was forced to foot the bill itself. The question raise<! by the Student Coun- cil was what insttrance is there that this situation will not re:peat itself, thus neces- sitating another large expenditure for uni- forms. And because the band had no ready explanation, a committee was appointed to . consider the administrative organization and problems of the band. • Many have gone so far as to sugg-est that the quality of perf()rmance l'endered by the band, and the ra:r•eness ·Of its appearances- do not even justify its upkeep. This ques- tion, too, falls under the jmisdiction of the Student Council committee of investigation. This committee inte11ds to seek out earn- pus and band opinion on the condition of the band. Whatever their I'eport may be, it should be of interest and importance to the future of a band at Unjon College. Disgusted 'F't'fshman -----0---- CALENDAR Today 8:00 p. m.·- MountebatJ.ks Pro- duction, \The Adding Ma- chine,\ Mountebanks Theatre. 8:00 p m. Schenectaody Con- s u m e r ' s Cooperatives, Mr. Leon Kofod speak.er. Old Chapel. Saturday 10:00 a. m.-· Daily A.ssembly. Professor Francis J. A. Neef, Dartmouth. Mf>moria! ChapeL 8:00 p. m. Mountebanks Pro- duction, \The Adding Ma- chinP,\ Mountebanks Theatre. Sunday 11:00 a. m. -Sunday Service. Preacher. Dr. Samuel McCrea Caver t, Sect·eta1·y, FEderal Council of Churches, Me- morial Chapel. 2:00 p. m. -Schenectady Town Meeting of the Air. MPrnorial Chapel. 4:00 p. m.-Organ Reci<a.l', Dr. Elmer A. Tidmmsh, Memorial Chapel. 8:00 p.m.-Lecture, \Tlle Crisis in Liberty.\ Rt. Re-v. Msgr. Fulton J. Sheehan. 0!l'en to students on presentati<On of athletic tests. Monday MAKE-UP TESTS. 8:00 p. m.-Mountebanks Pro- duction, \The Add:ing- Ma- chine;'' Mountebanks Tlleatre. 7:30 p. m.--Platfarm J;eba:e. Union v.s. R. P. I. Stewat•t alrnost induc:ed the Phi· t·eeL-; will have to pt·es<'nt preview' Bete initiates into Phi Sigma· of coming events in m·der to keep Kappa , .. The Alpha Dells are up with the competitor. Secondarily, there is a long short not going to hold any Spring Dance subject which threatens to force this yeat· .. Speaking of dances. \Motion Pictut es· are your Best En- ,vhat officer of the Student Council tertainment\ down your throat. has two dates for the Gridiron Aside from its selections from The Ball? . . . Understand that Dr. GrE\at Train Robbery and BPrlha, Ellery is going to retire at the end The SE'\ving-Machine Girl, it's dulL of the year . . . Excerpt from a We were not convinced. ft·eshman theme: Lincoln Steffens Finally, ·Listen, Da.rling pt oveo tu was born in the west and spent his the best of its ability that love is infanhy in Lo.;; Angeles ... Bob no weed-like growth which blos- Woolard is mat:'ried despite all soms haphazardly in reel two, but statements to the contrary . . . rather the result of careful plan- Tony Sharpe is now accompanist ning, planting and nurturing by an for Pauline Pierce who sang here i.nte 1 ested third party. In thlo case last spring under· the auspices of it's a party of two, F. Bartholomew the Alpha Delts ... Jack Malone and J. Garland. They, together with received a letter addressed to \\'alter Pidgeon and Mary Astor, \Musl•tat\ Malone ... 'fhe Glee • · convPtt an incredible story into Club will not be able to malte the an amusing movie. week's trip they were planning to * * * the World's Fair ... The peacocks The stage show i\ distinguished which were recently hatched by a by the not-bad rhy\hms of Don hen are doi:ng nicely · · . Besto.r and the excelknt tap-dane-· Samuel Insull. who died last· ing of Loui;; Da Pron, \dire-ct from July, received the Honorary degree the Puamount Theatre, N. Y.\ of Doctor of Science at Union in Bobby Pinkus impersonates the 1917 - .. Mrs. Fox sent two bowls ·;rooner in love with the micro- of flower-s to the barber shop ... phone and the baby reciting its What member of the English staff first piece as well as ever. but his is leaving at the end of this year? blonde is beginning to show wear. He is t·he !=1on of a Union alumnus l'.rt. Best or·~ m.c.-ng is slightly too and a Union man himself . . . dignified, not to :;ay smug. Stan Woodward, sports editor of * * • the Herald Tribune, picked Wil- Starting next Tuesday the State Iiams over Union last week. The presents A Man To RPmernber. Psi U's sent him a telegram offer- Like the other small-budget RKO ing to bet five bucks on the game. films, Make Way for Tomorrow, He accepted. Monday the Psi U's The Lost Patrol nnd ThE' Informer sent a money order. it was produced quietly and. ha~ The football poQl has folded. The attracted unanimous praise from pre-election drive of the local vice the critics. Whethet· or not it lives squad is responsible. One of the up to the standard of its three agents in town was \nabbed\ last ·predecessors t emain\ to bE> seen. Saturday I see last Sunday's Sun for See it, there fore. J. M. the details). A guardian of the law rame up on the <'Bmpus early this week looking for the campus repre- sentatives. ThPre wet e none around. Nn onP knew anything about foot- hall pools. A ceriain .Psi U and a members of the var:;ity backfield \took\ the pool for a total of fifty dollars. All they have to do now is ·COllect it. The H. A. ;ji(il.i = ----1 1-'ri., ~nt •• Hun •• :\Ion .. \lrJWTII E.R RAT\ P.-i .. rillu l.a.nP • \Yn Jl\t\ li ot'rl\ 2nd Hit! \'I'IIE S'fHIDI\ ('ha ... Uh'li.forct • Pr<•ston Fns.t.t~r Andy llPYinP .. Btu•tun l1U< 1 .LHtW --------~-- PALORAMA END CRANE ST.--SCH'DY SUNDE NOV\ 6th (In Person l BlANCHE CALLOWAY AND HER ORCHESTRA Adm. Men 40c Ladies 25c: Usuc: Afte Gan Ro~ Varsit1 OfCc: OnRe Hopei ta.ining so i·nset the vic gt:idden night fl Uttivers fot·elgn Union plete rn in thet1 is a sli! tomorrc S+alw.: \ictory \f the s host t College Desh much- rest, f cancel! Tuesda and in: tion o: The IE th<· fie r\<tet' J ttaditil Fi D. I

me m- re- eaUey .in im- in t·.s for to re- the on the dormi- or be- n sent pay- Te~·t 193K by all for ool by of the will be n.This be of the :lOU. ired of pay- taken. p tests 14, of uesday, obtain to be ing the office. of one toctor's innova- unim- is ssue of in the it famous teed pendous uew.s- to keep short o fat ce En- throat. om The Bl\rtha dull. oveo to love is blos- but plan- g by an his cati~ wlomew with A::>tor, into of Don from N. Y.\ tes the micro- ling its but his w wear. too State et RKO morrow, has from it lives three bP seen. J. M. <•.Lntw H'DY 25e Usual Team Slump After a WiiUams Game in .Evidence Rochester Tomorro-w Varsity Eleven Hopeful Of Catching Catamou11ts On Rebound of 40·0 Loss. Freshman Basketball Candidates to Meet Nov. 9 All candidates for the fresh- man basketball team should re- port to the Trophy Room on the top floor of Alwnni Gym- nasium near the indoor run- ning track on next Wednes- day, Nov. 9, at 1 p. m., Fresh- man Coach Art Lawrence an- nounced ·today. · Intramural T o+als to Date THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVE:l\lBER 4, 1938 Basketball 1 Squad Working Out Daily One HoiJr Sessions On Tap for 17 Men Union's hopefuls for thE> 1938-39 varsity .basketball outfit have been engaging in one-hour daily prac- ·tice sessions in -A'Iumni Gym, con- centi,ating on fundamenta-ls a~ the ·first week of drilliVork passes. Interclass Games End FaH Lacrosse Four Glass Teams Meet During Week, Nov. 14-19 Page ThreE:! INTRAMURAL HIGHLIGHTS Tennis 'I'ournaJnent The third round of each bracket must be completed on or befot•e Monday, Nov. 7. Each forfeit will deduct 10 points from yolll· re· spective group totals. Baskrtball Foul-'11hruwing TOUI'IU')' l. Toumament will ib£'gin on Mon- day, Nov. 14. 2. Every student in collegt> will be eligible to compete. <$-- his 25 free throws but in the awar·ding of additiOnal points only the totals of t hP 15 high<>st scores of any one gt·o~;~p will l>e added: then thr total of the high- est group will be divided into the additional points. The quo- tient will denote the value uf each successful fG>ul t1·y. If 15 members of any onP group do not compete, then all those who have competed for one group will be totaled. Hopeful of catching their enter- taining rivals on the rebound. ,and· tincluding only Touch Football so insert themselves once mo:re in : and Track Meet Tournaments.) Following the limbering-up exer- cises and routine :fundamentals, the 17 current members of the squad all have come in for 'pE-rsonal ses- sions with Coach Nels Nitchman, who has ·been diagnosing the in- ·dividua'i fauHs and has been see'lt- ing to eliminate them in these pri- vate lectures. An intensive scrim- mage among the ·candidates winds up the pt·actlce taking place from two to three o'clock. The combined freshman and vanoit.y lacrosse squads will wind up their fall practice st>ssion in two weeks, soon after the clG>se of the football seasan. During the week of Nov. 14-19, the annual in- t.erclass lacrosse competitions will be featured. On Wednesday, Nov. 16, the fresh- man class team will play the sopho- more outfit, followed on the next dar by the upperclass match, both on Library ·Field. The winners Of the two matches will met>t on Sat- . urday afternoon for the Class of 1887 Trophy. 3. Each participant will receive 25 fr·ee throws. After each attempt the c<>mpetitor must move away ft·om the foul line before at- 7. tempting the next try. 4. Stepping on or over the foul H ne In oeder to gain participation .points at least 10 men ft·llnt each group must compete. the victory colnmn,. the varsity· Phi Gamma Delta ......... 192.034 gt•iddcrs entrain for Rochester to- ,Psi Upsilon ................ '176.187 will constitute a miss. 8. The competition will c::los£> on Tuesday, No\'. 20, at 1 p. m. night fot· their encounter with the :Phi Delta ''l'heta ........... 173.357 University of Rochester eleven on Kappa Sigma .............. 171.952 fot·c!gn territory tomorrow. · Beta Theta Pi ............. 152.204 Union, which has been the Cl>m- Delta Upsilon .............. 150.000 plete master of the Yellowja<Jltets .Chi Psi .................... 137.670 5. Each student may take his trials between 10:30 a.m. and 1:30 p. m. 9. Pach day in the presence of either A. Lawt·ence ot' W. H. Ketz. No other trial,; will bt> offi- It might be pointed out that in order to score well in the addi- tional points. a group \huuld compete at least 11\ nwn. The greater number of participantH for a group. the gn·ate1· the po,;- sibility fot· that group receiving cial. in theit· previous three meetings, ::Kappa Nu ................. 135.636 is a slight favorite to return llo:rne . North College ............. 135.340 tomorrow night with its second· Neutrals ................... 122.374 Delta Phi ................. 118.772 As soon as the var~ity football season concludes, Coach Nitch- man plans to 'extend the time of the sessions. The squad also is ex- pected to be a ug.nented by several men now on the va·rsity eleven. ThP stickmen who hr.ve been out so far this fall are mostly from the freshman class. Undet· the su- pervision of Coach Freddit> Wyatt, they have studied solely the fun- damentals of the game. The year- lings who have been receiving gym ct·edit for their lacrosse work are: a high SCOI e. 5. Additional points wi'll be awat·d· ed on the following basis: every member of any group may take --------~~~--~----~---------------- Stalwart Linemen .•• JOHN KRULL, lg Lambda Chi Alpha . . . . . . . . 115.000 Pili Sigma Delta . . . . . . . . . . ll5.000 ,Sigma Phi ............ , .... 104.068 Kappa Alpha . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103.221 Delta Chi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92.034 Sigma Chi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68.602 ,Theta Delta Chi . . . . . . . . . . . 62.500 ·Alpha Delta Phi . . . . . . . . . . . 52.500 ·Phi Sigma Kappa . . . . . . . . . 50.000 South College . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.136 customary letdown following a Wil- liams game. And because of the quar:erly hour examinations, many of the team members either failed Rath..le,- Is Promising Captain John .Schultz heads a toster of eight vetet-ans of last year's quintet. Among the remain- ing group, Micltey Rathlev has ;;hown the forernost possibilitit>s with topnotch •basketball sense, and :,hoctld give :-.everal of the reg- ulan; a close fight for a first-class betth. Several of last year's letter- men have not -reported as yet, and it is very unlikely that any wtll come out .at a .future time. D. Blake, C. Bowdish, R. Forrest, W. Harkness, K. Keppler, A. Knopf, H. Lawrence, R. Lowe, R. Newton, R. Nothaker, .A. Reynolds, R. Rog- ers, J. Rooney. E. Schulze, C. Stiles, E. Ward. V. Sharp, and W. Weller. The upperclassmen who have been out are: Co-Captains Doug Blue and Hank Clay, Ronnie Ostt ander, and Merle Faye. \ictory in the final road encounter· .,f the sc:.oson, tully prepared to play Who Start Tomorrow In addition to Captain Schultz, the remaining squad members in- clude Herb Watson, Alex Turchick, Leoy Buchanan. George Miller, Rathlev, Bill Fold, Lou Carr, Bob Hanson, Hanlt Palmer, Hudson Tanner, John Canfleld, Jim Smtlh, John O'Brien, Ed Ba·rtlett, Mason Mutchins and ·Frank Melewicz, re· cent 'tar of the \'aJ·:;itv cros~-coun- In its first game next year, the fre,;hman squad will meet the Man- hasset High School team at Man- has,;et. Long Island, on April 8. host to the invading Hamilton College squad on November 12. Tt-am Shows Letdown Dt>siwus of giving his players c much -dt>served and much -needed rest, Head ·Ooach Nels Nitchman · cancelled the usual Monday and Tuesday practices after a garne, and i nstE?ad scheduled the resump- tion of workouts on Wedn<Jsday. The Hgulars scrimmaged against th<· f1 eshman team using the Roch- r-<ter plays and style. But t~:·ue to tt adition. the varsity displayed the EMPIRE THE STUDENTS LAUNDRY PHONE 4-6514 301 Green Si'. Corduroy Fingertip Coe~ts COLORS Tan and Faur1 WOOL-LINED $10.95 to report for pt•actice or else wo.rk- ed out for a short time. During the rest of the daily ses- sions, Coach Nitchman and Line Coach Duke Nebon put stress on Unwn's defensive setup for an aerial attacl{. Coach Nitehman took over the passing assignments occa- sionally to allow Sam Hammer- strom to take advantage of the drill. Several varied combinations· were also tried in the backfield. Balch :May St!trt The Dutchmen will be weakened by the loss of the road services of Auguie Kluge and John Guibert in the line, and Jack Vannier in the backfield. Bill Llynn will be ready to return to active duty tomorrow, after being on the sidelines for over a weelt with an injury. But it is ~till indefinite as to what extent Coach Nitchman will be able to rely upon Larry Brockmyer in the left halfback position. Brock- myer bruised the right side of his hip early in the Williams affair and practiced lightly during the week. If he plays at all, Larry will be in the game with his side com- pletely taped up. With his serv- ices sorely needed, Union's hard- fighting back may see more than his share of action. try group. - This year's schedule, which will ,b~ concent•ated on a murh sho•·tet let:gth of time tran was last year's slate, will get underway on Decem- bel' 14, when St. Lawrence will ring up the curtain on four straight home contests. Clarkson Tech, 1lc- Gill of Canada, and Buffalo follow until Ja.nuary 7, 1939. 0--- Group of I I Mermen In Intensive Drills Eleven promismg candidates for the Union vatsity squad have been undergoing intense workouts for the past fe\v wcelts in Foote Me- morial Pool. Included in the group are five new hopefuls, along with Pix able veterans. Coach Joe Wheatlt>v's natatots should enjoy a good \season this year because of the presence of such stellar men as Paul Teare,· Burt Brittin, Chuck Passe, Pete Dewitt, H~rb ·Derrick and Bob Miles. Added to this· list ar<> the newcomers, Bob Murphy, Ed Ca..se, .AI Davis, John Senn, and Fred Richards, who have tried out for various events. -0------ Freshmen! Notice! The followi.ng freshmen have not talten the requixed Physical Ex· amination and a1·e requested to xe- pot t to the College Physic an at once: Armstrong, H. T.; Arony, A.; Barbi, S. K; Beaven, R.; Beer, A .. J.; Best, W.; Birdsall, W. C.; Blake, D. K.; Bowdish, C. E.; Bresee, W. · 01.; Britten, H.; Butler, J. W.; Cal-. ifano. G_ A.; Callahan, P. D.; Champlin, W. H.; Chesebro, F. S.; Chestney, B. S.; Clayton, G. C.;. Coates. W. R.; Coggeshall, R. H.; Cart, J. C.; Coward, F. p_ Daly, \V. M.; Davison, H. W.; Dingman, D.; Doyle, T. J.; Enzer, J.; Feigenbaum, A. V.; Feldman, L. L.; Fischer, A. .; Fisher, E.; Fletch- er, R. H.; Foley, J. E.; Forse, R. W.; Genova, J.; Guerry, W. A.; Guiles, B. F.; Haske, B. F.; Hall, W. K.; Harkness, W. A.; Heinen, L. A.; Horning, J. W.; Horsman, W. B.; Horton. S. J.; Horton, W. F.; Hutchins. E. T. Jakobowski, B.; Jaycox, J. J.; Kay, A. n; Kelch, E. C.; Kilb, C. F.; Kilcoin, F. B.; King, E. T.; Koch, E. H.; Knudson, S. A.; Koh- lenberg, S.; Koprowski, E.; Lancey, R.; Landry, P. J.; Leland, B. T.; Longe, F. J.; Lowe, R. B.; Mac- Donald, J. E.; Marks, B.; McMullen, E.; Mead, H. T.; Moore, W. B.; Nagle, N. C.; Newton, R. L.; Oakes, E. W.; O'NP ill, H. J. Because he has shown excep· tiona! talent in the quarterback Rtation, young Dick Balch may sts.rt at the signal-calling post in In the breaststroke class Coach Wheatley is anticipating steady improvement from Davis. Senn has already shown definite potentiali- ties in his diving ability. Dtrrick, Dewitt, Teare and Brittin have been concentrating on the shortet distances while Pas~e has been in- dulging in longe.r sprints. Last year's 400 yard relay combination is intact except for one man. Palazini, R.; Panoff, R.; Paul. W.; ?e'\l J. A.; Perlstein, J. S.; Poole, .T. A.; Procita, L.; Raifstangt>r, E. B.; Ralph, K. W.; Rasso, A. E.; Reilly, A. E.; Reynolds, K. W.; Rhoades, J. W.; Richards, F. G.; Rogers, R. H.; Romine, H. L_; Roo- nt>y, J. L.; Royce, C. P. Santee, B. B ; Rchmelzet'. F. P.; Schrodt, P. F.; Sertle, R. J.; Sharp, V. B.; Shell, G. H.; Sobell, R. S.; Stevens, C. B.; Stiles, C. G.; Taylor, W. H.; Thwing, R. W.; Thyne, F. S.; Tiebout, R. H.; Treder, F. H.; Tubb, C. B.; Van O'Lina, E. H.; Van Zarrdt. W. K.; Volz. C. A.; Walker, E. D.; Ward, E. J.; War- dell, E. R.; Weider, J.; Weller, W. E.; Woodward, C. E.; White, J. H. Back in Action After Injury BILL LYNN, g . place of Captain Jack Amazon, in which case Amazon will replace tt>c injured Brockmyer. Uuchestei·: W. 2; L. 2 The Yellowjnckets have function- ed spondically throughout their · season, first startmg out with a sur- prising 6-all 1 ie with Oberlin, f ol\ lowed by a 14 to 0 conquest of R. P. I. Amherst swamped the Ko- dak City squad, 41 to 6, but Roches- ter came back to whitewash Hamil- ton 17 to 0, then to receive an un- merciful 40 to 0 drubbing from Ho- bart last Saturday. In t·cdation to the prupooed fresh- man team, Coach Wheatlev had dis- com·aging news. At present only one-half of a squad has· been put together. However, should a com- plete team be assembled the year- lings would indulge in a few mee:s. S.P. FOOT .. B.ALLlJHOO Sharpened to a figl:ting e•Jge by a batch of hour exams are our Conco-rdy ptognosticators on the one side, while we. find our three coaching friend::. <J.round the corner al,;o just tarin' to go, especially with the Rochester and Hamilton games staring them in the face. But such is life; and this gridiron forecast setup nmst go on, irregardless of floods, stor111~, hour exams, and the such. Head Coach \Nels\ Nitchman and Ed. Chief Fred Hequembourg rave been staging an interesting- battle between themselves during the week, \Heck\ trying to persuade \Nel~\ that it is m·uch more interesting to be an editm and a mediocre foreenster at the same timt>, than just a head footbnll coach as an avet·age selector. Since both are leading the parade with 2h out of 3U pt edtctions, the dye shoul.d he cast soon after 5 p. m. Satur<lay. \Ott\ Lawrence ha;. 27 correct choices to his cr£'dit, followed by Sports Ed. Jerry Smith with 24 tabs and \Duke\ Nelson With 21. (Notice we have dtupped \poor\ ftoll1 Nelson's name'? The \Duke\ is improving. and we want to be the first to recognize his heretofore undeveloped potentialities.) Syracuse-Colg-1te. tJeny and \Nels\ must be picking an upset in Syracuse, what with Fred, \Ott\ and \Duke\ putting their two cents on the Red Raiders.) Michigan-Penn. <Little doubt here. Michigan. is a bit too strong.) So. Calif.-Galif. (\Ott\ is the only one who thinks that California will not seal its Rose Bowl bid tomorrow.) Hamilton-Haverford. (Hamilton finds little encouragement, plenty of sympathy fron our masterminds.) Tomorrow's game will be the 35th renewal of the series which dates back to 1889. Todate, the Garnet has captured 16 victories, while losing 15 and tieing three. The probable staring lineup: l'nion Pos. Roehestei' IJcwi~ ......... , I,ER........ Hanauer Purdue-Ohio State. <Sl::uclts, even if \Ott\ ,goes back 0n his alma mater, things must be pretty bad. Still, Jerry sticks to Purdue.) HarvaTd-Clllcago. <All \ayes\ turned to Harvard.) D. A. D. th,e Mark of ~11aiHy Burns .......... L'I'U.......... ~IU.l'till lil'11ll .......... LG It. .. . . . . . . . . . . Wts nlolloy ........... G ........... J<aspars Fordham-St. Mary's. <The Ram still has plenty of fight left after be- ing clawed by the Panther. The vote goes to Fordham.) Williams-Wesleyan. <Fred picked Wesleyan, thinliing his selection a cinch. After all the forecasts were tabulated, he found his the sole one favct'ing the Middletowners. Now l::e's going around saying that his is \the\ upset of the wPek which will definitely stamp him, as what Dan A. Donahue 240 State St. we do not cm·e to venture. Rationalization. Oh well ... ) Lynn .......... RG I. .......... -. JotH>K Baker .......... RTJ,.. • . . . . . Dunstan 1\ln.rotta ... , .. , REL........... OllvN Bnlch ..... , , .. , . (}.B....... . KtrllllA'eS <llnnzon ....... I,l{It ......... Cun•hht Pntrle ......... RHL ........... Collett Hammerstrom ..• Fll.,, . . . . Gllotthmo ''Cosh}' tllat's a swell new shadel\ Everybody's talking about Bamboo - the amazingly popuhu shade just introduced in Arrow Shirts! Its pale glow makes you look like. a perfect specimen of manliness. We have Bamboo Oxford Shirts (Arrow Gordon, that refuses to shrink) and the famous Arrow Trump in bam- boo-with the longest·wearing soft collar you ever wore. Whichever you pick, you pick a winner. S2 NUSBAUM~S 44:7-451 STAT'E STREET .. Where did you get that smooth number?\ For campus and sports wear you'll never find a shirt more durable and better- looking than Arrow's Ox· ford. Its casual correctness rates it first with university men. Mitoga shaped and Sanforized-shrunk, available in smart collar models, reg: ular point, button-down, or new rounded collar. Colors -white and blue • • • and the new bamboo shade. Arrcw Oxfords $2 up ARROW SHIRTS

Page Four Lively Discussion Of College Band At Council Meeting Zuhr Defends Band Duchscherer Is. Appointed To Publications Board; Tax Committee Given $17 5 -----· 0 -·---- Freshman Spellers Meet Wednesday In Prize Match Dr. Coffin To Judge Second Annual Bee; Three Awards To Be Given T.he second annual freshman class spelling bee will be held Wed- nesday evening, November 9, in the Old Chapel. The eliminations in the various ~ections of the Fresh- man English course have been held during the past few weeks, and now there remain two members from each of the sections who will participate in the contest. The judge for the contest will be Professor Han·bon C. Coffin, head of the Language and Literature Di- vision. Three prizes are being of- fered to the winners of the con- test. Members of the student bod;y are invited to attend the bee, which is scheduled to begin at 7:30. Harrison Mese1·ole '41, was the winner of last rear's contest, tak- ing place when Ed Case misspelled the word \pusillanimous 0 L. V. Kofod to Discuss Cooperative Movement Mr. Leon Vernon Kofod, world traveler and lecturer, will deliver an address this evening in the Old Chapel on the topic, \American Co- ops Forge Ahead.\ The tallt is to be delivered under the auspices of the Schenectady Consumers Co- operative, will be illustrated with colored lante1'n slides. M1·. Kofod, vice-president of Co- operative Distributors and presi- dent of the Long Island Cooperative Federation, has traveled over 24,- 000 miles during the past two years to secure thP information and pictures for this lecture. He has studied the Cooperative Movement at first hand in Europe and Mexico. The lecture will start at 8 o'cloch::. Fauclty members, students and townspeople are welcome. ----0---- Faculty Wives Sponsor Record Concert Series Tuesday, Nov. l~The first con- cert In a new weekly series of re- corded music was held this after- noon in the Memorial Chapel be- tween the boars of 2:30 and 4 :3(}. These concerts are sponsored b;y the Faculty Wives' Club. Mr:l. Wil- liam W. Bennet and Mrs. Vladrnir Rojansky are co-chairmen of this concert committee. The transc,lptions being used in the concerts are from <1 collection belonging to t·he .eollegp ·Those who wish to have certain numbers played are asked to give their re- quests to Mrs. Rojansky. The next concert will be held Tuesday, Novcrnbe1· 8. Rev. S. Cavert, •10 To Deliver Address At Sunday Services Former Instructor at Union Author of Several Books; Has Studied in Orient The Rev. Samuel McCrea Caver!, who received his Bachelor's degree at Union in 1910, will deliver the ad- dle~:; in the Sunday Services. The speaker is Secretary of the Federal Council of Chm·ches, has studied in the Orient, is a re- nowned lecturer, and is the author of several books, Including \Se- curing Christian Leaders for To- morrow,\ \The Church and Indus- trial Reconstruction,\ and \The Teaching Work of the Chuch.\ The Rev. Mr. Cavert is also edi- tor of the bulletin of the Fedeal Council of Churches, is a contribut- ing editor of the Intercollegan, and is a lecturer at the Union Theologi- cal Seminary. Upon his graduation from Union, the speaker received his M.A. at Columbia, and his D.D. degree from the Union Theological Seminary. He taught Greek at Union College previous to the World War, and during the war served as chaplain. --~o~--- Bradley to Address Concordiensis Staff Mr. P. H. Bradley, recently ap- pointed City Editor of the Sche- nectady Union-Star and former As- sociated Press editor, will conduct a roundtable discussion on editorial and typographical make up with The Concordiensis staff and fresh- man journalism clru~s in The Con- cordicnsis office in Silliman Hall at 5 o'clock this afternoon. Mr. Bradley is the second in a se1·ies of professional journalists to address the staff. Recently Mr. Lewis B. Sebring '23, night city editor of the New York Herald Tr.ibnne spoke to the editorial staff members on evaluating yardsticks editors use in selecting material for publication. These newspaper men are se- cure! largely thl'Ough the efforts of Mr. Milton M. Enzer' 29, who conducts the freshman journalism class. ---o--~ -- Philomathean Society Plans Practice Debates The Philomathean Society will hold two practice debates for the purpose of giving ir,experienced members of the club an opportunity to become acquainted with the pro- cedure employed in formal debat- ing. Monday a practice team consist- ing of John Kilcoin, Jr., Armand FeigPnbaum and Harry Sillick will face a tPam from R. P. I. OPTOMETRIST Eyes Examined, Glasses Fitted 115 B'way Telephone 6-5747 Three Doors from ~tate St. THE CONCOROIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1938 TRY BOWLING FOR WHAT AILS YOU The Meeting Place of Union Men 16 Alleys Billiards TABERSKI•s Next to Mob.awlt Hotel When Eating Do Not Forget MODERN DINER Cor. Veeder Ave. & State FREIHOFERS BREAD :-: CAKE :-: ROLLS Daily Delivery Direct to Your Home TEL. 6-4224 Special Victor Record No. 26073 by Union College Student WILLIAM WOLF \It Took a Million Years\ t \linton On·h. at CASSEDY PIAN:O GO. 4o0 State St. near Proctors Something Different ROMANOFF'S 224 Nott Terrace For that 11 p. m. snack Kosher Sandwich Dress Shirts Expertly Done American A-1 Laundsy 11130 Hnrrett St~Just off l;nion PHO;IIE 4-8166 GUERRA PHARMACY DRUGS, PRESCRil'TIONS, SUNDRIES WE SERVE SANDWICHES AND LIGHT LUNCHES UNION COLLEGE STATIONERY 29c 600 Union St. cor. Barrett Phone 2-9419 FOR LOW FRICES CALL Schenectady Laundry Service 249 GREEN Si. PHONE 6-5550 20% Cash Disco!Illt-Cash & Carry \UNION SERVICE by UNION MEN for UNION MEN\ We Cater to Union Students and Their Guests JAMES RESTAURANT 426 State St. PINE GROVE DAIRY Inc. 118 S. Ferry St. Schenectady, N. Y. Lower Fuel Costs with 'blue coal' Try John Barcley Service Flour, Feed, Seeds, Fertilizer, Coke, Fuel Oil HIRAM J. M-cKAIN CO. 306-314 Union St. 633 State St. 226 N.ot,t Ter. ' · 204 Union St. 1009 Chrisler Ave. Phone 4-4448 PHONE • 6·3456 1 ·c;o·· L'D';S· ALWAYS POPULAR Phone 6-2351 for daily delivery MAKE YOUR MEEfii\IG PLACE at R EII~T ER'S BOWLING ACADEMY 148 Clinton St. Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley FooCI Market OUR MOTTO \Qualify Service Sa tisiaction\ 598 B'way- For Better Values Mountebanks Give •Adding Machine' In The)ater Tonight 'Several New-corners Cast In Season's First Play; To Use Revolving Stage Gasoline - Brake Service U. S. Tires Exides Motor Tune-up Lubrication Let Us Prepare Your Car for Winter oOI UNION ST. Open Until I I P. M. FRO-JOY ICE CREAM ~df'~ GET READY FOR THE ALL COLLEGE WEEKEND ONE SUIT and ONE TUXEDO CLEANED and PRESSED B::: 93c Call for and Deliver \For Students Who Care\ &&G CLEANERS DYERS 12 Elm St. Phone 3-1775 GAZETTE PRESS P:RINTERS Hi Z-511 Vol. L Tra\1 Sch4 Oev Sp· Rep or In Ap1 Durin~ \The mcnt b tab !ish a ~tudE to his • ance gi Travis, Ern ploy SPmbly bf'en at Univer~ 'fl;c < i·loyn1e en tire!~ tl'~t·nt i fricdnl~ acterlst in .choc jobs. ln a< in oth1 student per cer. depar.r work c swered ing evE dr en t lawns. I Miss import• employ stated board part t which ardshii and bo In c clare d. your e the Un avidly Club, t bating bureau ways courte: cooper Cai Spc InS Fa· Th1 In \Lib claime Fultor losoph of Ar. - Sunda Chape the Catho tho th therE Thi! Sheen and c attitu- of ott ed, \t tolera man they princi of OUI Fat cerne Iibert rnust. the d Italy these ''has in a gives its o· but : pose erty \TI Shee1 the r but~ to d• 'ougt supr< Shee pers< and do v;

col- the '39, is in a arrin- year \ welt ent 1st Hine- and He·r- .tht• un- last b Van all of the which and 3U, ut· at e-up UNION COLLEGE LlBRAR1 High School • • Miss Travis Battle tS Explains Work Today Scholarships Z-511 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1938 PRlCE FIVE CENTS Vol. LXII., No. 15 ================~==============================~==~==============~~========~============~== Many Delegates Expected Thursday For Deans Confab Travis Says Work Scholarships Will 'Develop j,n Future Speaks ~In Asser:nbly Reports Increase of 20/'o In Applications for Aid During CU~rrent Year \The visionary college employ- . mcnt bureau of the futut·e will es- tablish work scholarships whereby a ~tudent will make some return to his colleg-e in t·eturn for assist- . ance given,· declai'ed M·i'ss Frances Travis, Direc' or of the Student Employment Buteau, in Daily AS-· sPmbly this mo1 ning. This plan has b<'en attempted successfully at Yale. University. \fl;c operation uf th<' \tudent em- ;.luyment bureau dependR almoRt t'lllil'l'!y Otl tJ'p ottJc!~nt~ WhO !Pp· ll':::it'nl i' louttP ·y, V\'illingnP!-\S anrl fricdnly cooperation arP thP chAr· acterlstics which influence people in .choosing students for their odd jobs. • Gridiron Ba:ll :featured Hallett Swing Corporation 1n Mal Hallett, with his popular ban.d and v<lcallsts, in II! r-.c.ent photograph dul'ing his stay at the Steel PIN', Atlantic City. Ambitious Program : Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt, Rexford Tugwell Among Many Prominent Speakers Appt uximatdy 250 repre~en ta- tives from high schools and col- lege:; fhruughout New York state will convene here on Thursday to take part m the ambitiuu:; pr·ogt-am of a two-day session of the New York State As:;ociation of Deans. Among the prominent speakers wiU be Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt, who will be the gue;-;t of honor at I a luncheon tn be hPld ~aturrlay in the Alumni Gymna~ium. and Rex- 11 ford Guy Tugw<'ll. prominPnl N<'w Dral \btain·tl'·lle;Pt'\ ln acc<:rd with a general trend in other colleges applications for student employment increased 20 per cent this year, and the odd job depar.ment will at least equal their wol'k of last year when they an- swered 1,003 calls, with students do- ing everything from tutoring chil- dr en to throwing fertilizer over lawns. Union's first Gridiron Ball come,; .to be held that after·noon in the,._been in the rhythm business fora:.swing rhythm is only exceeded. by to pass Friday night in the gym as gym. T quite a few years. In fact, he prac- the specialists in his organization. the first feature of the Hamilton , . . I tically owned New England, is a His blending of pianissimo synco- I T'1kina a~ it\ thr>mr> \ThP Tnftu- 1 Pnf'P of .. F:n\•irnnmP:tt on thP Tn- dividual StudPnt ,\ PrP,.,ic!Pnt Paul Lebrick of Kent College will lead th!' conference. Frederic A. Wyatt. assistant to the Secretary of Union, will be m charge 0f iocal arrange ments. Will Discuss Practical Problems week-end: kick-off time, 10 :0(} p. m. Halletts ·band, conung dtrect first rate musician and a very in- pation with tbe popular melodies, The event will be I>Olely in charge from a Ne~ Y~:k engageme·t;t, h~ teresting personality.\-from the and hit tunes of the last decade, of Coach Mal Hallett, directing earned a sigmflcant reputatwn 111 Morning News, Dallas, Tex. gives his orche·stra an individual fre>m the sidelines, who will do his the western and southern sta:es re- \Ce1·tainly Irene Daye is in our stamp. His comedy .irt terludes, in best, with the aid of his renowned ~en tly, as shown ~l these teports estimation, the most talented fe- which his mtund .and jovial bass band, to provide the several hun- rom new.spa[>er en JCs: male warbler seen and heard in fiddle player is featured provide a dred spectators and participants· \Hallett's band, as well known as these parts. Singing with an abund- breakdown of dignity into comp·lete with ·some rhythmic entertainment. Benny Good~nan's in the East, .de- ance a.f feeling and expression, jasmania.\-f.rom the New Orleans Such pertinent and practical problems as how to know and un- derstand the environment of the student and how to make a social program which functions in enrich- ing the envit·onment will be dis- cussed by the high sehool section to be lead by Miss Florence Mc- Alpine, advisor to students at the Geneva High School. Fraternities Offer Jobs Miss Travis atso recognized the important role fraternities play in employing students. Her report stated that 21 received full time boaord jobs from fraternities, 26 part time board jobs, 14, jobs which yielded a room, and 17, stew- ardships which provided both room and board. The decorations for the ball will set\Ves to be a.Jmo-st that well known Miss Daye combines a voice of Roosevelt Review. be strictly of the foot·ball and grid- in Dallas. Pursuing hoth the cooler good range and tone with a very The price O•f the .tickets will re- iron theme. Behind the band plat- and warmer matters, and doing ex- vibrant personality for a song de- main at $3.00 .instead of being form, a huge football design will cellently with. each, the group re- livery that is unbeatable.\-from raised to $4.00, for the benefit of cover the wall, while on the wall sembles (it is not an imitation) the neutrals. This allowance has \Avenues of Guidance\ through health, housing, extra - curricular activities, the classroom, arts, re- ligion, the home, the community and the economic world will be the topics of a panel discussion on Friday morning with Dr. Esther Lloyd Jones, Associate Director of Personnel, Teachers' College, Co- lumbia University, acting as leader. opposite, a scoreboard will be erec- Casa Lorna. Hallett's rhythm and This Week in Dallas. .been made as the result of the In- ted. Fraternitie·s are requested to brass sections, are about as good as \Hallett a tireless worker, mixes terfraternity Council meeting last have their booths furnished by 12 you'll ever hear .... Maestro Hal- sweet tunes, hot tunes, special nov- night, whe1•e It was pointed out noon Friday, which arrangement is lett, a tall New Englander with a elty arrangements, and the old .fav- that the same stipulation is held neces 8 ary because of the luncheon n111stache !Uld. a Boston accent, has orite melodies, His capacity for for alumni patrons. In conclusion Miss Travis de- clat·ed, \If you must work to get your education, you can carry on the Union College tradition just as avidly as if you were with the Glee Club, the football team, or the de- bating team. Even an employment bureau can take its place if you al- ways remember the attributes of courtesy, willingness, and friendly cooperation,\ Flag Now Waves From Psi U Flagpole Eastern Personnel Delegates Attend Conference Here Fleet-Footed Floogies In Bare Foot-Race Mountebanks Play lacked Sensitive Interpretation· The highspot of the conference will be hit on Friday noon when Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt will be the guest of honor at a luncheon fm· the delegates to be held in the Alumni Gymnasium at 1 o'clock. Students of the colleg~ wishing to hear the speakers will be admitted to the balcony of the gymnasium. President Lebrick will pt•eside at the luncheon. Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox will give a speech of welcome, and ---0·--- Catholic Society Sponsors Sheen In Sunday lecture Father Sheen Discusses Three Aspects of Liberty In Modern World \Liberty is dying and is. false,\ claimed the Rt. Rev. Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen, professor of Phi- losophy at the Catholic University ·of America, to a large audience · Sunday night at the Memorial Chapel, in a lecture sponsored by the Schenectady FedPration for Catholic Welfare. This was one of the three views of liberty that Fa- ther Sheen presented. This interpretation, said Fathet· Sheen, means \the right to think and do anything you please. This attitude infringes upon the rights of other people. We must,\ he add- ed, \be tolerant of people and in- tolerant of principles, because hu- man being are liable to err, but they don't have the right to make principles-that is the divine right of our creator.\ Father Sheen's second view con- cerned what he called \The new liberty-the right to do what you must.\ This form is prevalent in the dictatorship states of Germany, Italy and Russia. \Every person in these states,\ said Father Sheen, \has as much freedom as a cuckoo in a cuckoo clock. This liberty gives the state the right to impose its own freedom upon the people, but God is the only one to im- pose his freedom and spirit of lib- erty upon us.\ \The true view,:• said Father Sheen, \Is not physical power nor the right to do whatever you please but you can do anything you want to do as long as you believe you 'ought' to do :t. There is only one supreme 'ought';\ concluded Father Sheen, \that is, to <!evelop your personality along the lines of life and love. Liber.ty is the right to do what you ought.'' The Union College campus has finally assumed the out- ward aspect of an orthodox American educational institu- tion since the Stars and Stripes has been unfurled on the cam- pus flagpole. The freshmen of the Psi Upsilon fraternity have been assigned to the task of raising and lowering the i!Olors daily. The flagpole itself was pre- sented to the college on the occasion of the centennial an- niversary of the Union chapter of Psi Upsilon. A small flag has been furnished temporarily by the college, but if the pres- ent system is effective, a larger flag will be used l:ler<Ja.fter. R. P. I.-Union Hold Draw Debate In a no-decision, practice debate, last night in the Old Chapel, three orators from Union view with a team representing R. P. I. on the subject, Resolved: The United State should enter into a military alliance with Great Britain to in· sure pe<tce. John Kilcoin '40, Harry Silleck '40 and Armand Feigenbaum '42, spoke for Union In direct argu- ment. R. P. I.'s speakers were John Bowler, Phillip Oppenheimer and Frank Drislane. Kilcoin and Feigenbaum spoke on the opposed view for Union; Bowler and Dris- lane, for Rensselaer. The coaches of the respective teams were Mr. Joseph Rotundo !ind Mr. Frederick Abbuhl. The varsity debating season be- gins on November 18 when Union faces St. Lawrence University. R. P. I. will also meet Union al- though the date has not been de- cided upon as yet. ---o--- Eighteen to Spell In Frosh Bee Tomorrow Hunclrecl Representatives From Eastern Colleges Discuss ,tvjodern Problems :More than one hundred dele- gates of the Eastern College Per- sonnel Offlc,ers Association con- cluded their -two day fall confer- en<:e Saturday after reaching a \reconciliation\ as to what is re- garded as essential in training by the colleges and what is to be found necessary for success by bu:siness. The personnel officers and placement bureau directors who attended tho final session spent the entire morning at the Van Curler discussing this prob- lem. ()n Ftiday night Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox spol;:e at the dinner given in Hale House on the \goal for a college.\ Dr.. Fox urged that uni- versities develop students with \the inquil'ing analytical mmu, with integrated personality, with a reasoned attitude toward life, and with lmowledge and capacity to. maintain physical fitness.\ The delegates wholehclRJ'tcdly supported tttis viewpoint and after- wards discussed the ways with which the existi.np.- obJeetives of colleges collld be made to comply with the qualifications demanded of business. On Frtdav .nornmg the group visited the General Electric Co. and had luncheon at the plant. In the afternCl'On executive meetings a:nd round table discussions were held. The conference was held un- der the auspices of Union College. ----·0---- Officers Meet .to Revive Old Frosi-I-Soph Rivalry Officers of the freshmen and ·sophomore classes will meet with Fred Wyatt and Dave Yunich in ·.Dr. Waldron's office tomorrow to Eighteen men, comprising the discuss pla.ns for reinstating some best spellers in the freshman class, r:neans of class rivalry. Dr. Wald- wlll engage in the third annual !'On will te-·ll of some. of the past freshman spelling .bee, tomorrow ·rivalries between the underclass- evening at 7-:30 p. m; in old chapel.· men in an effort to help the class These men have been chosen by a.: officers work out some plan for series of elimination bees from the' .stimulating class consciousness be- freshman English classes. tween the two groups, Two fleet-footed f!oogies were seen late last night in a bare foot-race by the son of a cer- tain local college president who prefers to remain anonymous. The Concordiensis' informant reports that he first saw the two racers, \with their bare faces hanging out,\ running along the lane in front of the Alpha Delta Phi House. One was wearing a very brief pair of white trunks, the other wore nothing at all. They went out the Payne gate, up Union Avenue, entered the Chi Psi driveway, and were last seen crossing the campus in the ge11.81'll.I direction of the dormitories. Phi Sigma Delta Plans Celebration Of 24th Anniversary Will Be Held At Chapter House On November I 0 Epsilon Chapter of Phi Sigma Delta Fraternity will hold a found- et·s' day meeting at the chapter house .on Thursday, November 10, in honor of the twenty-fourth anni- versary of their founding. The charter members of the chapter are expected to attend along with all local alumni and active mem- bers of the fraternity. The chapter was brought into be- ing in 1914 at Albany Law School. In 1924 the fmternity was moved to Union College where it has con- tinued to be an active house for the past eighteen years. The program for the meeting will include short addresses by Marvin Dwore, master frater of the active group, and Hyman Sevitz, president of the Capital District Alumni Club. Plans for the national convention which is to be held :in Schenectady late in December will be discussed. Dr. William Gould of Albany is chairman of the convention com- 'mittee. Barringer and Quigley Commended for Fine Readings By LESLIE FUFRATll The Mountebanks have given us solution to a few antictue points of debate and pre>duced a play which, at its best performance, would be good expressionistic drama. Elmer Rice's dramatizati<ln .of hum-dru.m existence in white collar society, The Adding l\lacbine has brought to Hanna Eall a few begging questions-social and religious- and sent them off repl~te with alms. The script treats its ;subject in positive terms, 'Witlt both tender- ness and contempt. in neither case losing motion or direction; never allowing the audience to lapse and forget that :M!'. Zero and com.pany are not fietiti~us means to a melo- dramatic end, but cast from life. It is playwriting which teems with vitality. Dr. Francis Bradshaw, Dean of students, University of North Car- olina, will deliver the principal ad- dress on \The Community as Part of the Curriculum.\ Performance Laclted Ene1•gy It is unfortunate that the Mountebanks, failing with a thor- oughly sensi tlve interpretation, did not bonow .shade and energy from the play itself. It was there in plenty: realism, irnagi.nation, poetry and an open bid to theatricality. The performance snuffled along with temper not unlike the lifeless routine of the existence it portray- ed. That may be an argument for realism but s()lhehow· doesn't cap- ture theatre audiences--even the most tolerant. Throughcmt, sym.pt-oms of !teen and sympathetic direction, but never quite matured. To Illustrate: the 2nd scene \desk dial<Jgue\ run- ning into monologlle and out again, in and out, p-roducing a confusion which could have l>een remedied with the use of alternating flood and separate spot-lights. Credit, however, for elhninatlng in later performances the off-stage door- bell (simulating an adding ma- chine) which sent a -wave of titter over Friday's audience. The stac- cato action introduced with the families of ca.rdinal numbers In the living roo'm scene demonstra;ted what might have been achieved if some director\s pla.n had been car- (.Continued on Bage 4) An organ recital by Dr. Elmer Tidmarsh at 3:30 will precede a tea to be given at the President's house <Continued on Page 4) ----,0--- Unionites to Learn Hamilton's 'Carissima' The student body will be re- hearsed in singing Hamilton's alma mater, Carissima, in daily chapel Friday morning in an attempt to reciprocate the custom which Ham- ilton has instituted during past years of singing our alma mater at the game. Several years ago, a futile effort was made to have the Union students do a return chorus as a tribute to the opponents. Even with the material encouragement of mimeographed copies of the words, the spirit of the attempt failed to take effect, and Hamil- ton's lady remained unsung. This year, with the special en- thusiasm of the Student Council and of Dr. Fox stimulating such a gesture, Dr. Elmer Tidmarsh will lead the student body in learning the words and melody to Hamil- ton's Carissima in his regular Fri- day musical assembly. It is hoped by the Student Coun- cil that this courtesy will become established as part of the tradi- tional Union-Hamilton spirit. All students are expected to learn the words. A copy of the words are repro- duced herewith, and printed copies of the same will be distributed in chapel. Carissima Dear is thy homestead glade and glen; Fair is the light that crowns thy brow; Gather we close to thee again, Mother of loyal, steadfast ml'n, Our own sweet Lady, thou! Our own sweet Lady, thou!

Page Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1938 ____ ._ ====================~~--~·~~-~---~--~-~~====~~-=-==~~~-=-~~----~~--~~----~====~~ <nnurnr sHch a move, may vve a.sk it to think of Dots and Dashes ,\. ··.I'·J - where om· chief l'esponsil>ili:ttes lie .•. with ·N O t· a. r y p ·u b. !1•. '1: ~c · Today is a big une in the life our !'eude1·s, the Union undergraduates aud uf evety New lurk State citizen alumni. And we ca11 serve t!l'leJn best through as thousands trek to the poHs to II;;;=========;;;;;;=============~:;;;;;~= FouNDED 1877 \:I Ct!ltsa Pe.rsa Parole :! ssai\ .Menrber uf the Assut'Iatell ·Collegiate Press aJid t_-li~trihul-tll\ nf tlw (~ollegiate Iligest. Tht offlda.l IleW~P[!.Jler -uf t~tudt'l!tti of ulliU[i Cullege. Published Tuesday and Fridays througli- •~ut lilt· ,.,,Jh·gl· ~t·al Editorial Ho01ns, Stllimau Hall, Uniuu College Carn· JIIIS. T'l'i~phonL•. Sl'henel'taliy, 4~013~. Pnbli(•atluu Oifh•£•, The liazette PresS: 33\'\t- ~tatt.· SL. Sl'11enect atlJ.', N. Y.. Telephone ·i·ll41 J:\:utt:'lt•d at the :Scht_•IJt't.:tady P'Obt UfflL'e as ~t..·~~Elll l~la·~s .:\l:til l\Ltt tt·r. SuOscriiJtiuu prit·~ Five et:!uts a t:Ol;):-;-$3.00R)'~ai~; deliver~d any where iu the U uitetl States_:_ Senim· Board l<'redericlt w. Hequembourg ..... Editor-in-Chief l'oi Upsilon House-4-X710 Max Len ..................... Business Manager Ka~pa Nu llous,_4-73~1 Robert C. Walter, Jr ... _ ..... Managing Editor l'si Upsilnn Hou:::.e-1-X710 Jet·ome Smith ..........•........ Sport:J Editor Kappa Nu House ... 4·7331 Robert A. ~aaf. .................. New,; Editor 1133 l'arkwuud lllvd.-4-61h2 H. Wyman Hitchcock ........... _ .Copy Editor IJL'l t..t lJpbllon Hout-Je---4 -7l.l:.!:! John Malun<• ............... Circulation lVIanager 111!11 h::t-,\t·~ ,\\.'t•.-· -l-ti931 REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL AOVE:RTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishen Representative 420 MADISON AV!i. NEW YORK, N.Y. CHitAGoO · BOSTON • !..OS ANG!LES ~ SAH FRANCISCO Junior Editol'io.I Board C. Hussell Deyu George L. Fed< Christopher 1\!. Faliy Lany Pellettler Edwiu A. FltZ, Jr. __ _ Sophomore Editorial B<Jard Paul Hedtel', Hlehard 1-Iellya.n, Joh11 Le\\·iH, Juhu l'hilill\· :\Jortlmer Hobin•. Hubert ::khulberg, Laskar Sdt.wat t. J; m~·~ 1-: T\\ iutn~. Business Staff HobL·t·t Ei:->IItl'. Jack Ha.hino\Vitz, \\\illlaJn C'oatt\t'. Armawl Feigenlnum. ~tanley Greenstein, Andy I~ay. Ju~tin I 't'rl~tt.-iu. \\'Jiliam Young, Donald Hmg:h. ..\ rt.Jntt I Ja ,.,~ fS!:iiie -f.~dit i.-i·. . ............. Edwin A. Fitz, Jr. Copy Dl'sk Editors 1.: ~cLulla:l~ Tuesday, November 8, 1938 A. FREE PRESS The Daily Dmtmouth, campus newspaper of Dartmouth College found itself in an a1armi ng and precarious position recently. Threatened with the possibility of dJastic administration conteol ovet' its editorial pol- icy and personnel, the editors of The Dart- Jnou th learned, as many colleg-iate news ot·- g-ans have in the past, that a free press is no longer looked upon as a sacred institution oy many college administrative officers. Perhaps taking their cue f1·om Emopen.n dictatorships, these censm·ious-minded offi- cials believe that a colleg·e newspaper can serve it~ \alma mater\ best by serving purely as a press release for all the propa- ganda that is presented to the editorial ·board. Editorial comment is not wanted un- less it is exclusively pro-Dmtmouth, pro- Columbia, etc. It seems that The Dartmouth, which like The Concordiensis owes its existence to stu- dent and alumni support, C!lllllot with jm;ti- fication cast aside the interests of these groups. We do not mean that a newspaper ~hould flagmntly flout \Vhat it conside1·s to be the opinions of its l'eadet s, but instead, thmugh criticism and sug·gestion, mould these opinions. Although dogmatic and will- ful editorials seldom do more than ant~tgon­ ize the readers, they are the only means a college pape1· has today of showing wlwt its readers think Nothing has been evolved that can take the place of constructive criti- cism. lt is needless to say that The Concordien- sis is in full sympathy with The Dartmouth, we hope that it will be able to find some plan that will be amicable to both the mem- bers of its staff and the administration. Perhaps we are fortunate to have a liberal minded administration, that has neve1· out- wardly tried to employ censorious tactics on our policies. Like The Idol, The Concordiensis has an adviser, Milton M. Enzer, '29, who discusses editorial policy and newspaper technique with the members of the editorial staff. The value of his advice is immeasurable; but he exercises no strict control. Perhaps we are fortunate, and in the future the college will deem it necessary to change its present purely technical assistance to a strict regu- lation of our policies; but if it eve!' considers register theh' choice ·for a gover- t..: th nds constn:1ctive criticisn1 of what we deem is nor who i:l to se 1 ve for the next ·Black List delinquents. 'J.1I1et•E !ll'e ousa . and thousands· of !:JOolcs but not Wl'Ollg with Union unci hv •COinmending that· four years. Racket-busting Thomhas 1f the following were· to pay erloug·h of a ceriain k·ind ·to go. · E. Dewey is trying to unseat t e what they could be charged the u t 1 · ] ' · .+11\ at o•·!nd. The in,mtant ·()lles m_ s Wl!Cl l::i prmseWOlc .Y· present incumbent, Gavernor Her- ·.o'ta.Jvo.•ouldamountto$500.Asitis • \ d be on hand after :a limited pet'IO . bett H. Lehman. FLASH! Judg- this group, or -one like it, payo ing from th<· gt·eat majot·ity of over S200• ever·y year to the library. 'I'P.DiiJ!\rs- Dewey button:.-~ on the campu:o, H This li~t comprises ·the most The library .stafi i:; euul and col, HOODLUMS With the presentntiml of '·The Adrliug :\lachiHe,., the Mountebanks. have opened their :27th subscription season. V\'e take this opportunity to cong-ratulate the cast and .:\k. Canol:!, thei!' dil·ector, on the excellence (}f their perfomwnce of this difficult prodllC- tion. But ... \eems that where n1en !mew poli- ~eriou:; ~ontempOI·ary offenden; and lcC\te!.l ·lo the casUJ.a! :passet-b)', lbut tie.< lt•:Jst, D<•wry i~ the favorite lH•avieool payers: keep a Resetve B<Jok out over·- 2-1. time and you will' be plagued .by Barringet· ti<n;t nostcards Ut en leHet·s whic_h * * * WhU<• thi:l grea·t pu!Hical battle is in progre;;,; another wart'are which wiJ:I attr'a:ci more campus in- IE'test is the Nutt Terrace-Mont Pleasant football game on Alexan- der Field which will be the htost current of cunent event» a» thi~ issue comes off the press. FLASH' Li:ke the students whu are weat- ing the Lehma:n or Dewey huttons we know nothing about the com- pm alive strength of the candidates and nick Mont Pleasant to win while- Lehman will be winning the Briggs incrc~se in the Jnten:.-~ity of th<!H Bt·ittin heat. 'When y()U .pas:l O'tlt of lhe Carey t:orm lettet· :otage and receiv-e ~ Car;;on pelsunal one fwm .M·r. Webb: don •i Chappell :Jtep a foot in N<>tt .Memorial Lt- Clay brut v or you'll get n <itgntfled lacing Thet·e were ce1·tain n1emuen of the ;mdi- ence 0n Saturday night whose perfolmtwce as spectators we can not cong1·atulate. A gToup of Union students, sitt-ing in the f.l·ont row of the balcony, spent the evening- thro\V- ing· spitballs at ushers, 'These m~eals were Hot good marksmen tmd many of their mi::;,;iles missed fire, llll fortu nn.t.ely hitting paying patrons who were m.uch annosed. Cotfin that. will be a •les>(Jn in how to give Cornell Hell diplomatic~:~lly and with the Daly utd of worG:; iJJ. V\'ei:JSter's Diet ion- Dayton ar''· Fai·rfield J lGleC'(I'O~IltiBn~I' slate election. i: * * Now that we've thrown a few <Jpimons at you, we might as weJI say that we are not a menrber of the Social Studie:; Club or em- ployed by the Union-Star, but we still get a kick out of telling peo- ple what we think. and after we've told 'em we hope we really don't get the kick. This is not a rival column of Mr. Retar.tyk's Cu.ll.s From the Press <free ad. l, but we might disagree with him once in a whHe, if he should ever commit himself on any ;;ubject at all. b'ox, HPI'bt>rt 0. Fu1·mall Gagen Gammons Halavin Humph1ey Luder Malone Mulcare Plummer Rathbun Rctartyk Robbins Sanderson Shaw Smith Van Dyke Van de Mal'i1 Walter \Report at my office tomot·ww m 0 rning to explajn wby you have neglected to ;pay atte11tion to li- bt·ary notices.\ T 1 t is is ~ent at.:otage number three .ant! is letter numbet three the lasl and final admon·i· lion ~·au will t·ec ei vc f.l om the li- bt·at y. The Dean is a p!J eai ed to next Jot· the most r<=Ca'lciti·ant <!ases. And the Dean, in l1is long cat·eer at Union College, has never b~en known not to get results. Brave .Answ~1· We are at a loss as to what to say 8Jbout the type of student who resorts to suC!·h childish pmnks. We know U1at we should say something IJeca.u::;.e til€ whole student body might be judged b~· the crude a11d thol:lgh tless actions of these ignorant stu- dents. We hope that thin1dng Union rneu will register their scorn fm· these p1·anksters so tlutt in this way th.ey can be brought to thei1· senses. We would further ~uggest that the ;.\lountebanks exclude these boys, \Ve cannot call them men, from further pel'foi'lYI- ances. Perhaps they should he recommended to the care of Dr. Ligon who has had con- :sidenlble success in correcting the habits of Zweig The Social Studies Depa1tment has been giving hour exams just like all the oti1e1 sections but one of their answers desei ves I·ecot·d- ing in this annal of hi;; tory. St UJ.m.p· • * • ed completely .(sial~-rnatedl by a Lru>t Friday Mr. Retarty·k told Under Glass question number three the rourEg€- us that the nation was all excited \Ve al'e not in league, more than ous, or indisci·eet. student wrote on about the d.nxmatization of the :Jociabiy, with the libra1-y staff. Any hi,; paper, \You ~lmnk!\ \\'ar of the- Worlds. The investiga- obset ver can see for him;;elf a tion by the Federal Communica- pat tial Jist of library transgressors Ele-ction .Resl.l!ts lions Commission has not received on the loan desk. A com:plete list Herbert Lehma:n vtill be re-elect- any publicity, and it is likely that is el;;ewhere but open permission ed governor tonjght by a much definite steps will not be tal{en un- is not granted to see it. We found larger majority thaa any uf the til the licenses for the VA.rious sta- i~ at our own risk for the enlight- polls have predicted. We have tions at·e renewed, and at this entnn1t of our r-eaders who have be~>n wondering- w-hy he did \choose time aH honor broadca,o,;ts may be all the fun without sharing any of to run.\ We would not be sUr.J>rised banned. If such is the case, it will the blame. to see Gov. Lehman's brother, A.r- problem children. R. A. S. be a bad state of affairs, because it A \Finf'\ :o;~·stf'm thur Lehman, appoilltell to th<• Su- wqJ be a form of ct:nsorship. The The tlne is charged, we found preme Cour·t of the U.S.A. Judge newspapers have evaded govern- out, not for the sake of the income Lehman spoke here .two yea1·s ago. ment control so far and radio· teceived. In time and effm t the He is as worthy as an)· one for the FURTHER EXPLANATION DESIRED which is comparatively young, cost is greater than it is worth. position and Mr. Farley tspeal<ing would be handic<tpped serionsly, if However, (here must be sor.:e ldnd for F.D.R.) said he could hav.e it. The band th1·ough its student leader ex- a move toward censorship is be- of penalty to control the serio1.1s oo there. Davi<l Light, Jr·. gun, whether it concern:; fantastic _ _:_ __ ::._ ________________________ _ presses its side of the current campus arg'U- dramatizations or the Little Ut·phan ment on whether or not that o!\ga.nization Annie program. because then the IN THE MAIL die will be cast ~or federal control de \el·ves an increase in its student tax ap- \' of the wireless. A beginning never To the Edtor-: propl'ia tion in this issue Qf our \In the ~Iai l\ indicates a destination, and a start Since several member;; of the Stu- of suppression of radio programs, C()l.lllllll. The bands al'~mrnents are ve1·y con- dent Council have questi<m<\'d the ~ may lead to drastic government \ •1 · 11 cill!l', but we feel that man~· of them need control. necessity of an increased band bud· -> -' • * * get, and one even questioned the further explanation. The authot· of this column last right of the band to exist. I wish \\ ' d t t' tl d't f a.., year graduated, and it is with the to state the facts as they are. e 0 no ques ·1011 1€ e:xp.en I lll\€ O ..,..- Ft'nances ·. \v·e ~ntered \hi~ year knowledge that he has no objec- v • ~ proximately $15 for a hand. coat, for we f~el tions if we adopt his Ule and use with a deficit of $102.93. This is that <l band must be ;adequately and neatly nearly the same pseudonym he largely due to a gnatly reduced used. Lack of miginality may be opei·at·ing budget last year· and tbl· outfitted to create a favorable impt·ession the charge, but if it is charged it purchase of a set of tympani. This 011 it.s audience. However. we do question is free. •o it is all right with us. purctuse was only one of instru- • • ments made in the la;;t f.:w years. the need of buying- several uniforms e<tch So now my dear readers, after It was necessary to pm·cha..se 24 ''eat·. ~Ir. Zuhr himself says in his lettet• this masterpiece we hope that you new jackets early this fall to assure J don't lack with disdain on Culls the appearance of a completely- \sevel·al of the coats have had more than From thP PI'<'ss, becau>:le it's a very unifoimed band at the tirst footoali seven years ·of service and can hardly be 'culling\ and \pressing\ column game. This cost $369.60. Expenses told fr~m the new ones_\ Il€ ~tdds further Horatio II. . ;%o';7:t~~ fon~ 3 ~i:X~:C\:~h~~~e~~:: .ball :;eason even though it hac! a s.udenl tax appNip~·iation of $~20. To play the 'hea-vy type music is one of our means of i(eeping ba.nds men interested. \V ilh the excep iion c>f three tr·ips every two years the individual pla.ye1·'s only tevvat·d is a ltey for three years' ser-vice The band a.ppeat·.s in chapel e-ver~ month in full bo-dy_ It :appears a athletic events_ Oil Alumni Weel!. end, the band fullctions .from 9: ()O Saturday morning until dark tha night. The band i:l. therefoJe, OJJ et ating over the longest span o time possible a~cmding to the school calendat·. 1 propose the folio\Wing five ;point to improve the b<md and its rnan agement: l. That uniforms :be dist1·ibuteu oi a deposit sy;;tel!U. 2. The purchase >Of uniform tt·ouo- ers. plies, such as spt·ings and reeds, 3. that the Joss of coats i.s almost negligi bl·e. II II include repairs, music, and sup· IleJ'e he seems to be contradicting himself. M 0 T I 0 N etc. n should be noted that the The purchase .(If a 1hum majo u11iform. For if the life of a band coat is approximate- !.!============;!! cost of the R.P.L game has not 4. beLn given. I am quoting bere only ly seven years and very few are lost, why Ronald Colman, apostle of charm, figures available in the Tax Office Making mot·e iri]Js availal>loe to give the men ruo re eaget· to was it necessary to p Ul'Cltase 24 new coats has brushed up on the far~away Our budget was !J:475. d look in his eye and assumed the Uniforms: The individual cost of this year ·z We haven't noticed that the han man·Je of Francois Villon <pt·o- the coats is ju:otifled by the ex- is ~I) men stronger thHil it waR last year. nounccd l<'t·ancois Villonl in the cf>llencC' of the cloth, the dye used l 'li·. Ztlht· f'ultn- .et· \'tates that the band's Franlt Lloyd production of If .I and the wearing quaiit:es. Sever-al a ..,. Were King. No one is better quali- of the coa.ts have had m.ore than present membership is 42. Yet at the Wil· tied than he to play the role; n•) ana seven yea1s' ,-e;v'ce and can hard- 1 31 h could do it more efficiently, bP- ly be told fro;n the new ones. Tbe Iiams game thel'e were exact Y men vV 0 cause Mr. Colman is a ring-ta!l~d loss of coats from year to ye.ar has played and marched dul'ing- the half. The~·e whizz. a solid sender, when it been negligible. A i'ecent survey al ·e only ft' ve tr-Ines a year that the band comes to sword and cloak to- showed an av~ra~e of three a year mantics. His Francois is so lovable over a five-year period. must wea1· its coats, a.nd .if only 751/r of the a rogue you'll probably forgive LibTu~·: Our music library is · h ld I t d L him for quoting his own verse in- p1acticaliy unbroken. It must be members turn out, why ~ OU t Je B U en cessantly. . expanded to provide for the chang- body be obligated to <JUtfit the Othel' 25o/c AND THAT'S NOT ALL! Basil ing instrumentation and individual d t t Rathbone registers a very careful ability. who for unknown reasons· 0 no care 0 par- performance as that shrewd old The average attendance this year ticipaLe. dog, Louis XI; Ellen Drew and has been 42. Experience sl\-.ows that W e are not of the ()j)iliion that the hall.d Stanley Dodges hold forth as a :he average at the end of the first pair of Francois' villains, and Fran- month will be tho yearly average. should be abolished; but we do feel that its cess Dee pours forth t.er barren The band has invested in instru- ·fl'nancial set-up is in ne-ed Gf revision, alld soul into the starry-eyed heroine. ments alone more than $2,500. The story Is too familiar to bear These instruments have been pl.u- until this is done it should: not be g-iven fur- repeating, having been screened at chased from balances formerly !>b- t her funds to cal'!'\ on. its Ojlera.tions. least two or three times in the tained. The average cost of a band J past. This is as good a movie as any score is $5.01>. Our libraty can be And at Other Colleges Afte1• experimenting with C(}Urses on marriage problems for five years, SYR..AC'USE UNIVERSIT'Y this fall established one o:f the first full-credit classes in the subject. But, though, 80 per cen.t of the men voted in a student referendum in favor of the .course, not a single male registered for the class. Contrary to popular belief the first university i.n America was not HARVA.RD. Nor was BA.YI...OR UNIVERSITY the first in:stltution of higher learn- ing west of the Mississdppi River. For exactly 85 years ·befm.e John Harvard .endowed his dream bchool in 1638, some of the more ambitious Spanlsl: explOiei·s and educators founded ,the UNIVERSITY OF MEXICO. This little school opened its doors in 1553. of the others, even though it lacks valu~d at about $750. The tolD.! cap- the efforts of a rough and reedy ita! investment is therefore a p- baritone in behalf of \Song of the proxirna1ely $3,500. Vagabond.\ The type of music played is Swing That Cheer passes away easily justified. It is a very sirn- after an hour's Illness. ple matter to play marches. Con- ~ * * stant playing- of marches weariEs Do not forget to remember not a bandsman somewhat. This fact to forget A Man to Remember, is seen bv the band of 1934-35 which which begins a three day visit at was a strictly \march band.\ The the State even as you read this. band liecame inactive after foot- Some astute showmanship on the part of the management has led to booking 'l'hings To Come as a co-feature. All the mental midgets who were talren in by Mr. We!Jes'b Orson around recently should flopk to see the fate t·hat might have be- fallen them. ... . . Finally, it may be well to mention that there;s a notice at Froctor's that Paul Whiteman is ·coming to town with his entire organization · for a Thursday- through. Saturday on that theatre's stage. No date is :mentioned but, presumably, it's set for next week. We assure you that this is THE event of the season. participate. 5. That ·the study ~ody beeome \band minded:' CContinued ·on Page 4) STATE TUES.· WED. • THURS. H. G. WELLs.• Fantas1 of .t~e War of the Worlds .. THINGS TO COM'E•• wfth Raymond Massey Sir Cedric Hardwicle On the Same Big Progra!l1 wiih the Surprise Hit tile Critics Are Acclaitninql \AMAN TO REME'M BER\ --- Rc la:r, Dutc Roche I the IJrilli Saml1Jy: the .SCCJI' teammat g.]or~. ·U it:o s~cc::m today :b jack-ets RochcstF Find\ P The g: mittent noveltiEs ttauh e point af1 t~implc .e: blocked Guard D over ·the Unio:n the :t11·st ond, •One be c.o11. te the fill2li jackets 1 over ·tVI< men .pla\ most,~;ar Hltnie Tonror ~ ~ I ~ ':l'il-e cross-e tontt:!:>n J!. IlL Al•llnll piLI'jKIS for ·t sq~a.cl, anJt()>\11

not go cole :but by the a on'·t Li- the ion· \I\} li- li- at just one a age· lect- the ve -oose A.r- Su- ago. the it. a .c is .nds· s at 9: ()O that DJl· of th~ ts a·jor to to THE CONCORDIENSlS, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1938 Page Three Rochester Humbled 'By Gridders; Awa.rds In X-Country la:r..,e· First-H:a'lf Lead 'Enables Dutchmen To Triumph, 27-13 ~------------------------------- Rocbcste1·, Nov. 5-Sparked by: five occasions, and completing each the IJri.llian.t play of '01' VV:or:khorse of the passes thrown. Rochester Sa:rr11ny Hammerstrom wh()· sets up !ned 11 passes, but succeeded with the .sco:·es only to see one of his ·onl-y four. team!1lates grab the touchdown Union 8COl'fS in 2 Plays glor~. ·Union's football team won In the first quarter the Garnet it:; S-<!CClnd victoJ·y of the year here . kicked off to the FloWer City a;g- toda:y by drubbing the Yellow- gregation. Rochester could not gain jack<€ts from the Unive1•sity of and Bob CoHett ·booted the ball Rochester,. 27 to 13. oul on the Union five. Capta:in Jake Finch Punch, Scores T wke Amazon dropped back in his end zone to pur\·! out of dal'l.ger, but much to the chagrin of the Yel- lowshirts, Mr. S. Hammerstl'om Oddity: Star+: Tackle Attempts Conversion Phi Gams Win Me:et FRESHMAN RUNNERS VOTED NUMERALS _In Football by Big Score; D. U. Second K. McKenzie Stars Friday, Nov. ·!-The Phi Ganuha Delta Fraternity captured top hon-· ors in the annual foot baH field meet this afternoon on A:lexande1 Field with a total of 18 points scored, whi>le its nearest com-' petitors garnered 91'~ :POints. The Phi Gams registet•ed men: first in the placekicking-for-dis-; tance, and in the passing-for-dis- tance events, in second and fourth: places in the accurate-punting• class, and two i·n a tie for third' place in the placekicking-for-goals' event. Delta Upsilon f1•aternity was sec-: Ol'ld with a total of 97!, points, S • B·l · k \U ... IX · ·OC . 5 1 Two .. aUa .. s Given Varsity Harriers Six Frosh Numerals Six varsity crosti~cauntry z·un- ners were awarded major Block \U's\ for outstanding pet·forrnances du•ring the pa!Ot season, Athletic Di- rector J. Harold Wittner announced to(lay. Two other members of the team received the \aUa\ minor athletic awards. At the same time the anllounce- ment was made that six freshman cmss-country harriers were named receipients of \1942\ numeral awards for participation on the yearling squad. . closely fol-lowed by Phi Sigma: The requirements for the major athletic letters and the freshman numerals awards in croBs-country is that t:he runner finish among t h<' first five Union men in the majo!'ity of the season meets. \BILI.Y\ THOMAS The game was played in inter- mittent rain, and featur-ed such nove ltioes as Tackle '\Tiny\ Wein- ttauh convei•ting for the -extra point after ()ne touchdown by the sim.r-le .expedie-nce of picking up a block~d attempt for conversion by Guard Dick Keams and running it over ·lbe goaL Unio:n scou~d two touchcovms in the :fkst ch ucke1·, one in the sec.- and, -one in the third, and had to be c.on. tent to remain sc().reless In : the fln2ll session, when the Yellow- jackEts buz:zed ·to life and pushed · over -!VIo touchdowns. The Nitch- m<:n .played a ground game for lhe most.~;art, taking to the ail· on only Hltrriers Elect Captain ToniorrQW at 1:15 P. M. ':l'lt-e lettermen of the :val'Sity -cross-l!ountJ-y team will 111eet tonJo:>I'rO\V afternoon at '1: 11> p. nL in the 'l'roJlhY Room' ·of Ah.nnlli Gymnasium fvr the plLI'JKISO of electing a Claptain :for ·the 1939 hill-aDd-dale sq~:~.J. l'eoor Owens, mana,ger, anuo-unced today. • Full Dress Suit mu~<ed o Suit \\/hite Dress Vest -Dia ck Dress Vest Kappa with 9 points, and the Beta! Theta Pi group with 8 ',!, poin•ts.:. Seven other fraternities placed. McKenzie Stai·s Ken McKenzie, Phi Ga:mrna Delta' sophomore, led the individual scor-: Front Row: H~ft to rigllt, lme~li.tiS') Don Field, Dirl< ConiJ, ~lasun ICroni<•lt, ('Jurrl•s Yolz, and Glenn St~vms. B~t<•k !tow: Ch•ft t-o right) Bill llt>rri<•k, mgr., Geut·ll\~ Ill<'\'\\\'• Bu.IJ :\I IIfllhJ, .Jiu•k Pt'ar~on, })on Bl'l)('J\:wl'h I, antl Coach Uill 1\~tz. · ing parade with one first place, one: tie -for third, and also one fourth, ln+ramurals Freshman Bllsketball Candidates Me.et Tomorrow Major va:t·sity awards were voted to Captailn Edward Wells \39 Co- lumbia, South CaroJi.na; Howa1·d Sheffer '39, Schenectady; Joseph Annese '40, Hoboken, N. J.; William Johnson '40, Schenectady; Frank Melewicz '40, Schenectady; and Paul Santoro '41, Schenectady. \aUa's\ were listed for Bradford Hastings '41, Troy, and Robert Reed '41, Ballston Lake. · place finish. Ed Keers, Delta: DICK KEARNS took .the ball and gamboled up to midfield before being stopped. On the very next play, Mr. F. Patr-ie, who has a penchant for doing such things, with great dispatch hasten- ed over the Rochester goal. The previously mentioned Mr. S. Ham- merstJ·om booted the ball between the goal- posts. Even Mr. Nitchman was seen to smile as his charges held a 7-to-0 lead in the first min- u!e of the game. Finish: Guard, Instead, Tallies After- receiving the kick-off, Rochester was again forced to kick to the Ga.net. After an exchange of punts, the Nitchmen were ceded the ball at miclileld. Their reverses being stopped, the Dutchmen called for a pass. So, Hammerstrom pitched a 26-yard strike t~ his \partner in grime,\ Mr. Patne, to place the ball on the 33. From this point one Larry Brockmyer chap- eroned the ball over the money marker on an off-tackle jaunt. Again Mr. Hammerstrom did the hanoi'S. Union 14, Rochester 0. Thomas Contributes In the second scene, Bob Collett let fly a 57-yard boot to dampen the Union ardor. Shortly after, ·how- ever, a fumble by Klein and Both- well's tackle of Collett for a 15- yard loss set the .stage for \Rabbit\ Thomas's first score of the year-. Billy rushed over the Blue and Gold's goal. Hammerstrom's at- tempt for conversion was wide. After this score Rochester moved the .ball into Union territory, but stalled on the 25, Union 20. Roches- ter 0. Hammerstrom threw a 10-yard pass to Bothwell early in the third quarter to start the Garnet into motion again from its own 40. Sam- (Conttnued on Page 4) Upsilon, followed closely with one: second .place, one tie for second, place, and one tie for fifth place.; Bob Feldman, of Phi Gamma Delta,, and Dick Harrison of Phi Sigma Kappa, both took a first and a third. T·he events were closely contest- ed throughout, with two two-way ties, one three-way tie, and one six- way tie for third place. Summaries: Punting for <lio;tarwe-Won by H. Smith, Heta Theta l'i, (51, 58. 55. HH· ;ydR.) : ~t<·rnuJ. pla<'L· t H.>tl lJy I•;. Keer~. I>~ ita un .. ilon. (44, fi4. 5~. -150 yd<.): ••nd ,J. Keough, Chi Psi, (-15, 55, 50, 150\ yds.); fourth, J. Cone, Srgma l'lti, (50,\ 52, 44, HU yds.); lifth, J. Twining, Chi! l'Hi, (39, ·17, 50, 136 yd\ Plal'ekie1<ing for distanl'e-\Vun by' K. McKenzie, Phi llamma Dertai (55.: 50, 53, 158 yds.); se<•nn<l, G. {opf, Kappa Sigma, ( 4G, 48, 58, 152 yds.) ; third, R. Harrison, Phi Sigma Kappa, (42, 19. 54, 145 yds.l; fourth, n. SteiV- art, CJti Psi, (48, 17, 47.142 y<ls.); fifth,' 1'. Hat~h. P\l Upsilnll, (45, 40, 5.1, 136 yds.). Passing for distant·e-Won by R.· J<.,ehlman, Phi Uamm.a Dell::·~ (50, 55,' 54, 159 yds.); second, J. \\:Yilllamson Lambda Chi Alpha, (·19. 54. 52, 155· yds.) : third, H. Palmer, Beta Theta .Pi, (46. 51, 54, 151 yds.); folll'th, T.: Merson, Ka!Jpa Sigma, ( 49, 50, 49, 1\48 yds.); fifth place tied by R. Furmau,. Delta Upsilon, <49, 49, 49, 147 yds. ), awl W. Derrick, Beta Theta Pi, (54, Hi.' -17. 147 yds.). l'unting for at-cur<>·y-Won by R. Harrison, Phi Sigma Kappa, (7, 5, 1.. 13 y<ls.); seeonrl, H. Woolard, !'hi. Gamma Della. (8, 10. 3, 21 yds.) : third. R. Eisner. Kaprla l\'u, (3, 1, 2u. 2·1 yds.); fourth, K. •\IP-Kenzie Phi Gamma Delta, (·I, 18. 4. ~G yds.) ; llfth place tied by ~1. Hutchins, Theta Delta Chi, <20, 4, !\i ~9 ycls.), !';. Keer·s, Delta Upsil<>n, \(5 ·1. ~II. 29 yds. l. and 9. 1-lalpenr, K' oppa :-.:u, <20·, 5, 4, 29 ycls.). Placeki<'l< fni' goals- -Won by D. )!Ill- er P&l rpsilon, (5); sePOIHI. 1<:. Keel'::;, Delta L'psil<>n, t4l; thir<l pla<·e tied by J. Spittle. Delta l'rlsi!uu, (3). V. Riley,. I,ambda Chi Alpha. (31. K. ~leKenzi.e, Phi namma Delta, (31. H. Fehlma.n, l'hi Gamma Delta, (3), \'. Sharp, Phi Sigma Kappa ,(3), \'\' J. Jlt•:\lanus, I,amb<la l..'hi Alpha, (3). Tennis TotU'Ilalll.ent The third round of each bracket must be completed by or ·before to- morrow afternoon, Wednesday, Nov. 9. Each forfeit will deduct 10 points from your respective group totals. Bowling T()urnament Entries for- the Intramural Bowl- ing Tournament must be in the in- tramural box not later than Friday afternoon, Nov. 11, at 5 p. m. In- dividual names of the members of each team will not be necessary. Hand in a complete team roster entry. Any five men of a group may compete and the Ii:st of each group may c\ha1tge at any time. Please do not enter the tournament unless you are positive that your team will compete each week. A cup will be awarded to the win- ning group. Basketball Foul•Throwing Tourney 1. Tournament wil ·begin on Mon- day, Nov. 14. 2. Every student in college will be eligible to C{)mpete. a. Each participant will receive 25 free throws. After each attempt the competitor must move away from the foul line before at- tempting the next try. 4. Stepping on or over the foul line will constitute a miss. 5. Each student may take his trials between 10:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. each day in the presence of either A. Lawrence or W. H. Ketz. No other trials will be offi- cial. 6, Additional points will be award- ed on the f()!lowing basis: every member of any group may take his 25 free throws but in the awarding of additional points only the totals of the 15 highest scores of any one group will be added: then the total of the high- est group will be divided into the Grou1• 'l'otal\ additional points. The quotient Phi Gamma lleltn .............. 1M will denote the value of each llelta {'psilon . . . . . . . . . . . 9'-\\ successful foul try. If 15 mem· Phi Slgtna KUJIJ>tl . . . . . . . . . . . . . . u hers of any one group do not Jlt•tu 'l'Jretn . .. . .. .. .. .. . MY. compete, then all those who have Clil l'sl . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . a y 2 competed for one group will be I<up 1 ,, Sigmn . _ ... _. _ ........ _. G totaled. Psi t:p•ilon .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. . .. 7. In order to gain participation I,umbda C\hl AIJ>hn . . . . . . . . . . . . . points at least 10 men from each I\aiJPa Nu . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ~Y. group must compete. Sigma Pit! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . 2 8. The competition will close ou Tlwta Delta Chi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . t·B~·~_T_u_e_s_d_a_y_, _N_o_v_._2_o_,_a_t __ 1_p_. __ m_· __ ~ FOR THE GRIDIRON BALL To Rate with Your Date You'll Need a CORSAGE Get it at Union's Florist • T. J~~ Kl NG, Florist Ovet·head Crossing (State St.) PHONE 4-6444 Agent on Campus--Bradford Buttner-Phone 4-8323 !~~m:::::::mmmm;;:m::m:::Hm::::m:::~;:;::;m::::::i:-:m:::::::::m:::::::::m:m:::::m:m:::::::::::mm:mm::::r~;.i All candidates for the f-resh- man basltetball team sl10nld re- port to the Tr()phy Room on the top floor df Alumni Gym- nasiUin near tlte illdoor run- ning track tomorrow afternoon at 1 p. m., Freshman Coach Art Lawrence lias announced. Those receiving the freshman numerals are Donald Brockwehl, Lynbrook, N. J.; Richard Conly, New City; Donald Field, Burnt Hills; Robert Murphy, Skanateles; Jonathan Pearson, Scotia; and George Stevenson, Westbmy. ~-It might be pointed out that in order to score vvell in the addi- tional points, .a group should eompete at least 15 men. The greater number of participants .for a gronp, the greater the pos- sibility for that group receiving a high score. Swing Out this weekend • GET READY FOR THE ALL COLLEGE WEEICEND m a new Tail Coal or Tuxedo ()NE SUIT lllld ()NE TUXEDO CLEANED and FRESSED n~~:9lc $25 to $35 Call for a11d Deliver \For Students Who Care\ from G&:G CLEAtiERS DYERS JOSEPH'S 12 Elm St. Phone 3-1775 Stan Joseph \ I A~~ther Scoop for the - ---- College Book Store A NEW COLLEG-E OUTLINE SERIES FOR STUDENTS Union '21 We now hav-e a complete stock of HYMARX OUTLINES. College s+utients have found these outlines very useful aJtd we recommend them very highly. HYMARX OUTLINES are available now and all duriJtg the school year in the following courses: • ENGLISH LITERATURE • FRENCH LITERATURE • ECONOMICS • HISTORY • GOVERNMENT • PHILOSOPHY • THE SCIENCES • CLASSICAL CIVILIZATION Aslc to Look at a HYMARX Outline!! On Sale at Union College Book Sto.re · - J

Page Four THE iCONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1~38 ~DP:ue~b~a~l~:c::_t_~;;;;;~-~-s-R0-0=~-~-n-ss=l-!-!';;;;;;;;;;;·rf)-('•-~;-~;;;;;·~:-:-'-~-.:-1,.!=~-~;;;.~:l...;;e;;;;;r;;;;:.,~i-~;;;;;- ~-r=s s:;;;;.+;;,.;L;;;;;.:;;;:;a;;;;;d;;;~;;;:;~;;;;,J.;;.;·;;;;;~-ge;,.;w;;;;,a;;;,;~;;;;~-1 ~-7-. 3~;...;.;~N-.-,l)-~~---·(':=;r;;;;.~n\'::};;;~·~;;;;T~~:;;;:;c:;;;:;l ;;;;;uf;;;:;c D;;;;;l u,-~ ~=~;;;;;;.;~;;;;;;o~~~~~~~'''''''''''''''''\'''''\\''\'''''\'1il War Las agam b~l'll dl'clund. I ,P \d Kl'llogg.. Speaker, Dr. George Hi •For Ev.e·n··ln•g Use .Jbservt•IS ill the '\Cotl<'Ul.liy' oflill' I Conference Fr~: ay· H. Danton. m Publications Committee Allows Students to Use Rooms in Silliman Hall wen• shukt•n l>ist m~l; t II·om chc•.r I · 7. 30 .p. m. NPwman C·lub ::: t·l'Wty by ti1P •·n~in···. liu~·· bon D I A . ·H :\leeting. :::l1lliman Hall. ;;; lil'l',, -r1lUl'UUS :yell.-, Wllllll\ll ~l'1 \\tn- e egates to rr.IV-e · ere \\'t>dnesda_y ;,·_;·::;::. ing. and just abou-t c·r~toythin~ eu· Th~;.~rsday for Three Day 10.00 a m. Daily Chapel, ;:~ 1 ~~ 7 ~',',~bl~;~e;,f.t e~ut t ~~·K'tl , .. : a<t!•;::~ Pr<'.;lgra lXI ~~ea'kP1, Rollin L. Twining. V:'::::::•::;:;;:::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;;;:;:;;:;:;;:;:;:;::;:;;:::::::::m:::::;::;;::;:;::::::::::::::::::~~: ('tant wilhit·J\'1.':-;, th · ,. J!l. · 1.~u ~ ,,r -; .3U .p. HL Ftc~hrna·n t;pe'llln~ Dean L'. F. G,Hb, i'>e~idcnt uf ·t~'ontlnu~d irom Page ll \ h Old C'h 1 1 ·upiniun was that Hll· tl'd1 ft um ... atr , ape . Publiration Hocud has announ(·t•( · !\Lar::-:; wete not att.acl\ . .i.n~ (~l·W latPI Xn· the ut'tt::'t·noon and a din- Thursda~· t hat ananvemtenb h!ive be<\ll made b · net wj·J-1 -b•• held that night in tht• 10 00 Dai'!v Assembly ~ 'i'mk papt•rs plPasP nutel ut Ill- . , : a. m. • , tl) ·ha\·~ the uffict• uf the Student Lullt·0< 111 t uf tl•·· ·Hott>l Van Cuder. D v A O'Rout·ke ~- ll ,tl'au Nutt 'J'c•Jmt:•· '\'\ vrephtlllg ~ . r. ernon . , Publications office in :::liHiman Ha for Mont Pleasant and vice versa. Dr. Surges Johnson will be the speaker. 0pen in t·he evenings for general th . . f th u · men toasl-!IJas:er, and Dr. Rexford Guy 7:30 p. ctudent .use. \le also announced A13 e maJOl\l.y 0 · c mon y k c·t ~ · \' t tt TugWEJII of the New or 1 Y Meeting that the Reading Rooms in Silli- ~~~~,:;s~ :~~ \'t~~:/s 1 ~ 10 th;' 0 ~.Biu~ r'lann~ng Commission, and Dr. W. rn.-Pyramid Club in Silliman Hall. F1·iday CoS. MOODY OPTOMETRIST ;Bellevue Cj)uality Bakery 2625 Broadway Phone 4-6248 Eyes Examined, Glasses Fitted BltEAD - ROLLS • PASTRY 115 B'way Telephone 6-5747 . man Ha'll will be open each eve- Devils'' win, theil eohor·ts wiH H. Cowley, President of Hamilton ning exceptincr Saturday evening, .. th ;allege w.il! be the speakers. •·nti\!' 9·.30 p. \'m. Dean Garis r·e- cr·ush him HI the.1· wal,e; 1t · e \ \Red Raiders\ win, he will be In a mo1·ning busines>; session to quested that any organization de-: swept av.ay by the 1 r follower:;. begin at 9 o'clock, President Le- Three Doors from State St. 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly, - 1 ~~~~~;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;~ L;;;;~;;~~~;=;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~ Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh. 1: ,r; 10:00 p. m. -- lnterfratemity Ball with Mal Hallett's or- chestra. ~iring to use these rooms on a.ny !5otn answer.,; equalling zero, the b1 ick will .pt·eside. An address to particular evening after 9:30 mu,;t best policy is to '\a ch the ba1tlo) ~he d~legates on \A Regent Loolts r\pply to the Dean for special per- from the roof of the Phi <Jan, at Gujdance\ will be given by Susan mission. The hours which the· 3ran!le.,;, Regent of the Univer·sity NOTICES Student Publ ications office will be. House and emez·ge healthy. To y 1 k · .ual~e a :;ad stoty sadder, Nott Tt>l'· ~f 'l:o S:ate of New or i. Seniom az e requested to file open for each day of the wee arc .ace won last year and Mont Pleas- Such varied fields of interest as their applications for employment as follows• .inl will come out on Alexander ~lemcnts of a health ·program, ef- as well as matetial for the place- Sunda~:. from 7-12 midnight; ,;'-ield tnis afternoon a-fighting. ~ect Of housing on stu~ent gro'\~t~, ment bulletins befote Tuesday, Monday, until 12 midnight; Tues- ~he Vftlue of eKtra-curriCu!ar acttvJ- •• L r . 1 uu:,, until 0.30 V· Ill., w~Jw..:\'la: u rt\o; 11'\ l'ligh school and college, the I ~'u'\ 1 \ Cl \'· __ _ t.ntil 12 midnight; Thursday, until relaticm cf the curriculum to the 12 midnight; Friday, until 9:30 •• Adding Machine·· :!Uid\l'tN> prn\T\m .tlw piH~P nf On Mnnrley PVPning-. NovPmho•· p. 111 ., S<J.tutJah l!util !!.3u p. 111. i\.tts in the development of an 14, Dean Alexander of Albany ~aw - ---· 0 ----- Lacked 5 ens •• t.lve !dllcated pet son the contribution School will meet with ~II semors of religion to t:1e g.rowth of the i!'terested in tne professiOn of lav: G t T B t • indivi1:lual, how the home may co- at the Kappa Alpha Lodge. Om- arne earn ea s I nterpretatlon Jpe:a!e with ~he school, how the !lei' will be .served at 6:30. Heser- R h t El community 1 esources be utilized in vat ions may be made by calling at oc. e s er even Barringer and Quigley a gUic.!ance ptogram, and thE> ques- the Placement Bureau. tion !lf whethe1· student employ- ( Cuntmued from Page 3) my then plunged for anothez· !lr·st down, bu-c was hurt on the 111ay and was teplaced by Thomas. A short while latPr, Thomas plunged ovE'r from the one-yard line. Kearns attempted the conversion, but his kiclL was blocked. But Weintraub scooped up the ball and battled his way over the goal fo1· the con version. &oeh!'Stt'r A wak<>ns The fourth quarter saw Rocnes- ter spring to llf<' and. led hy Rill- ings and Gf'rsba<\h. worked thf\ ball to the Union 10. An off sides penality against the Garnet gave the home eleven the ball on the Union five. A few plays later Fran!~ Gliottone scored for Rochester on a plunge. After taking the kickoff. Union wmked the ball to the Roch- ester 25, where a fumbw by Brock- royer gave the Kodak City lads the ball with five minutes of play remaining. Later. Rochester work- ed the ball to midfield. With lpss than a minute of play remaining, Curchin scampered for a touch- down. Stranges kicked the conver- sion. Union 27, Rochestet· 13. The summary: Commended for nent contribu:es tu sound educa- - ion a 1 p1 actire will be discussed Fine Readings from 10 ·30 to 12:00 when the dele- •.Continued from Page 1! rit•d mo1·p !!'E'n<·rally into plot. In this same seE>ne Adding MachinE' mechanism reached its gr·and total with the uni,;oned and accusative \Thet·e!\ of tbe chorus, addressed to :\lr. Zero. gates will break up into various in Lerest groups. ThP final luncheon of the con- fer •'lle>c will bo) held in Hale House whert' the Pr esicient-Elect of the organization will preside and Dr. Otto 'Kiineberg of Sarah Lawrence College and Columbia. Univer:;ity and bL Lebrick will deliver ad- . h i!e<•~s. Th1s will be the last gath- Oougla:; Stevenson c:uned muc . \ring- \f the rlelegatt•o as a w·hoh• • co!Julloii.Hilly \\ ~1 1 . t;etu whu\\ I' no t_.~p t'X•'Cll' 1\•e <'nmmittce of the g;tca. boo.\l wa\ \lweat~-t>vc ~·.,at> ~onfPrence will meet in final ses- on the same job and never tn>ssed ·ion • t 3 m a day\; Sevensun, attempting to ' ~ 1 P· · do an expressive portrayal was yet o---- ... tways and apparently Jcstrained Ho.::..dley Discovers .est he crea<e a too sen~itive crca- 'g t ure. The Gl·aveym·d :scene must be Arthur I nscr .I ption ctedited with a near-perfection . achieved in no other part of the pit>ce. Plaudits to Lon Barringer for hi:; work there. M1s. Zero cat- l'ied the first scene with a con- vincing derision, a metallic and agitatmg voice. She just '\stole\ the .scene !rum Mr. Zero who didn't have a chance ftom th,. very be- ginning. Miss Quigley as Daisy De- vore possessed and read into her Union Roclustu· part an acute understanding of fine Chester A. Arthur '48, the 21st presiC!ent of !he United States, ap- p~ars to have been rather fond of leaving permanent records of him- self '<Vhile a student at Union Col- lege. The latest proof of his en- deavor Is a board siding bearing his n&me, which was t ecently found by M:r. Anthony Hoadley, Comp- trolle.l'. LE LT LG c RG RT RE QB LH RH FB Lewis . Searle Baker . J<>nes Krull .. _ . . . . . . . . . . . Phillips Molloy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Kasper:o Lynn .................... Gay Burns ............ Connor Marotta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Oliver Amazon . . . . . . . . Haruk Brocl<myer Collett Patrie ... Cure hiD Hammer.strom Gliottone and signilicant lines. More of the quality of her wol'li would have been the needed hypodt>rmic to r esu~citate 1 he performance to nor- mal b1 eathing. Albert Callan re· turn eLl to thC' worm\ much too soon. Leering, wheeling \Joe\ With his ,:at donie laugh~ B'ull and enthustas tic acknowledgement is due thP crew for su1·mounting an uncom- mon lot of tPchnical difficultie,;; fot designing sets not!'wol·thy for their :,lcure by P<>riods linear simplicity and symmetry. Union ......... 14 6 7 0-27 so mu<\h hingt>d on the content of The board. bearing the carving, was being used as a bridge over somP steampipes in the basement of \\<'ashburn Hall, and was dis- rover~d thete by Mr. Hoadley. The! e wtll be a meeting of the fratet nity t·ushing chairmen in Rilliman Hall at 1 o'clock tomot- row. The Publications Board will meet tomon·ow afte1 noon at 4 :30 in the Dean's office. All members are requested to attend. LOST--Sigma Pi Sigma frater- t.ity key. Finder plea:se t et!Hll to R A. Pelton, Buum 211, Physic.; annex. A reward is offered. \What Religion Does for Us,\ was the topic of the address given by the Rev. Samuel McCrea Ca- vert, Secretaty of the Federal Council of Churches, at the Sun- day morning services in Memorial Chapel. INS1'ALLMENT TUITION, DORMITORY RENT an-d DINING HALL FEES The third installment of TUI- TION is due and should be paid at the COMPTROLLER'S OFFICE on Tuesday, November 15. No bills are issued and it is requested that all students having payment due make them promptly. Any made after :he above date will be subject to the usual fine for late payment. The second installment of DORM- 1TORY RENT is due on the same date, also second quarter DINING HALL fee. Bills have been issued covering the:;e two payments. HOURS FOR COLLECTION OF FEES, NOVEMBER 15: . 9:00 A. M. to 12:30 P. M. 1:00 P. M. to 4:45 P. M. PAYMENTS MADE AFTER Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market OUR MOTTO .. Qualify Service Satisfaction\ 598 B'way - For Better Values 633 State St. 226 Not+ Ter. 204 Union St. 1 009 Chrisler Ave. THE ' . !!)1li_!A. ;~app~ ,, DESSERT-OF-THE-MONTH r OCTAGON iCE CREAM CAKE Serves Four 35e at your JERSEY ICE CREAM STORE PHONE 6·3456 For Your Flowers for the Gridiron Ball see: • STAN BECKER, 3 N. S. N. C. or Call 4-5208 Gardenias Roses Orchids Corsage Prices $1.00 $1.50 1.00 1.25 3.00 $2.00 1.50 Other Flowers Reasonably Pric:ed FRAIK R. GALLO, Florist Cor. JAY and LIBERTY ST. GAZETTE PRESS PRINTERS Rochestet· _.. . . . 0 0 0 13-·13 the closing- scene that it was dev- TouchdO\vn~ - Union, Patrie • .istating to witnt'ss it..s almost total Thomas ( 2l, Brockmyer; Rochester. fai!Ut·p_ Hetb<'rt Grant. effici<\nt as Gliottone. Curchin. Points after lle may be in thP r.-alm of man- touchdown- Union, Hammerst1·om a.g!'ment. was obviously miscast in (2l, Weintr·aub; Rochester, Stran- the pat!- of Lieutenant Charles. ges. Substitutions- Union. Norris. lacking vo!c1> mne, modulation and Thomas, Ciesinski, Henderson, the pl'Oper declamatory manner. As Busino, Dwyer, Balch, Kearns, M:ol- the play about people who had Jicone, Irish, Bothwell, Weintraub, never lived a~ they wanted lagged Mara, Eisner; Rocht>ster. Barrus,. into its conclusion it was clear Zwerko. Womer, Finnell, Jackson, .hat author Elmer Rice. could he Tew, DeMers, Larson, Hannauer, have anticipated Adding Ma- Klein, Gersbach, Humphrey, St1an· rllin<''s mis<\alculation in this par- ges, Grab, Billings, Gr:!enwald, ticular instance, would have Young, !lfcMillan, Boucher, Dustan, d t oppPd hi~ pt'n >hot t of thro last The wood containing the inscrip- tion is believed to have been a plank in thC' wooden walls which were -once used in the college class- mom\. The size and shape of the plank easily lends itself to this them~. Besides the inscription \Arthur· '47\ there also appears the name~ and dates of carving of sevp1·a.t other Union men. Among them are the names of S. V. Swits '·!9. J. Shea '69, and B. MacKay '50. In ad.Jition to these names, a num- ber of nthers <:.s well a:s inittals are discet.nible. The board is now Ill the offiee of Dr. Waldron. THE ABOVE DATE ARE SUB-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ JECT TO THE USUAL CHARGE I i FOR LATE PAYMENTS. Leighton. I <cenc _____ _ ------- -- - ---- FOOT .. B.ALLL}HOO Composite Records Varsity Football Won, 2. Tied, 1. Lost, 3. Points scored, 94. Oppon- Pnt~ ,;cored. 83. Vat·sity Cross-country Won, 5. Lost. L Points scored, 117. Oppon- l'nts scored, 213. !SE>ason com- '>leted.l - F\tP.;hrnan Football Won, 3. Lost. 1 Points scored, 38. Opponents '\\red, 24. <Season completed.> Freshman Cross-country --- Won, Lost. L Points scored, 52. Op- ponpn·ts scored, 58. (Season com- p!PtPrl ) - ---- 0-- IN THE MAIL Dress Shirts Expertly Detle American A-1 Laundsy IUlltl Burrrtt st~.Just off Unim1 l'IHI:S E 4·3166 EMPIRE THE STUDENTS LAUNDRY PHONE 4·6514 301 Green St. Thi.o week we·v<' teached the •tagt• in our colummu flin); lung ft•a1Pd by even the wurst of writet·s, having a few facts to report but not knowing hnw to btgin So, we'll jU>t pass them along to you, to h•• digested aecording- to your 1espective individual recipes. tastes and de~irf>~. Four of our five worthy pwgno,;ticatorR, with the exception of vener- able \Duke'· Nelbun, came ttu ough with upsets, Spur Is Ed. ~~~ ry domg the unbelievable by picking two fo1 m tcvdsal<o \on the nose, and lead- ing last wt•ek\s pa1ade With >ix uut uf e1ght. However, the s1tuat1un r-emains the same hh far as leudet > a1 c concerned. because Head Coach \Nelq\ Nitchman and Ed. Chief FrPd Hequembourg are still tied. and the battle still rages, more furious than. ever, over the merits of a foot- ball mentor and a college newspaper editor in making gridiron selec- tions. Then too, our praises of \Duke\ must have gone to his head, be<\aUSP Nrl>'on rlrnpprd bn<\k int<l hi~ form<>t habit of going ;,(1 ;,o on tle •·Continued from Page 2) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ To justify the existence of the hAnd· Tt is an {'ducational. ~x:tra- I As it now stands, Messrs. Nltcllman and Hequembourg are at the head of th!' cln.ss with a !uta! of 33 o-ut of 49. followed by \Ott'\ Lawr- ence (who, of all people, picked Ohio State to defeat his beloved alma mater) with 32, Jerry with 30, and '\Duke\ with 25 out of 47. As far as actual percentages go, well, we'pe just too lazy to figure them ~ut.' be- cause 47 is a vety uneven number and the taslt would be too difficult. So, bear with us. currlr\ula r >~ctivitv for 42 men for I a whoJp vear. Who. but th!' wor•t I <'vnirl'. c'ould con<\l'ivP of Union I '~ithout its band? HERBERT F. ZUHR, '39 Student Leader of the Band. ilnterestul i•z Schenectady Tnterest~J in UNION MAURICE B. GRAUBART T lze Jay Street Jeweler 166 JAY STREET W aick ani! Jewelry Repairing a .Specialty PARKER and WATERMAN PENS Results: S;·racu8e, 7; Colgate. 0 tJrrry nnd \Nels\ had the inside track hel\el. Michigan, 1&; Penn, 13 (in totol. Southern California, 13; California, 7 t\Ott\s'\ brilliance •hone herel. Hamilton. 7: HavE'rfoz d, 18 <Good old Haverford, getting Hamilton in shape for Union Saturday). Purdue, 12; Ohio State, 0 <a lone bulls-eye for Jerryl. Harvard, 47; Chicago. 13· twhat a spectacular second-half rush, eh?>. F\ordham 3; St. Mary's, 0 t what a difference a little field goal can. maltel. W~sleyan, I 13; Williams, 7 <Hequembourg has the luck of the Insh after gomg out on the limb In this one>. 1.\;;;==:;;;==========..:J Call for ARISTOCRAT MILK and DAIRY PRODUCTS Special Fraternity Service Bellevue Dairv. PHONE 4-2553 Opportunity Knocks! Employers today require practical as well as theoretical experience. A college newspaper offers just such op- portunity for practical experience in sales- manship and management plus campus prestege which will later be helpful m making a start in the business world. AIJ Freshmen and Sophomores interested in becoming members of the Business Staff of the Concordiensis. see- MAX LEN, Business Manager KAPPA NU HOUSE Z-511 Vol. I Fra1 In vi· For w Hous• Clime Union Sixte vited 1 the he starts Ball. Torn' groups dances row's from c of the ball te The well a: ar~ as The is held end v; Webb, oner a: don ac lowing the b Hugt Quack' Hansei way, ~ Wintez Sk!dm' Mass.; ton, D Betty Bever!' The fraten Smith, Weber Zeit, I Smith; Dorotl: Speh, lesley; Emily Best, merm~ vine, E lege ol Vassal Joan· l Russel Skidm morei oke; Holde! Heck, The niyt , Rose, Sylves jor!e Peggy Peggy Ennes I!oyd, !an, Hines, Sprin! Bratt! Bingh ler, 'iili shall, Stew a Evarl len bat garet riet Elaln• The Mrs. • Mrs .• The guest: this VI

:::::::::::::: m Iii Iii ted 6-5747 . St. E UNION COLLEGE LIBHARY • • tS Z-511 ====~~=------ -- --~-=~===~~~==~~~=======~=====\\-'-~~=====~~~~==~~~=~ Vol. LXII., No. 16 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1938 PRICE FIVE CENTS =-=-=-~-=-=-~-==~--~======~~==~==~~-~--------- ~--~--~~-==~==~=-==~--~~-=~~=-~---,=~~-~-=-~-=-~-~~--~==~---===~-=--~-=--=--=-=-=-=-=--=--~-=-=-~~=== Fraternity Groups Invite Many Guests For Gala Week-end Will Hold Dances House Parties Will Climax Hamilton- Union Grid Classic Sixteen fraternity groups have in- vited several hundred guests for the house party week-end which starts tonight with the Gridiron Ball. Tomurrow night the various groups will entertain at house dances which will climax tomor- row's features, including a recess from classes and the 46th meeting of the Union and Hamilton foot- ball teams on Alexander Field. The guests for the week-end as well as chaper-ones and orchestras arP. as follows; ALPHA DELTA PHI The .Alpha Delta Phi fraternity is belding a house party this week- end with Mr. and Mrs. Helmer Webb, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Wag·· oner and Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Hern- don acting as chaperones. The fol- lowing girls will be the guests of the house: the Misses Nancy Hughes, Poughkeepsie; Nancy Quackenbush, Albany; Lorraine Hansen, Skidmore; Louise Gallo- way, Slddmore; Katherine Tilden, Winter H:arbor, Fla.; Lenore Hurth, Skidmore; Clara Stetson, Hingham, Mass.; Madelaine King, Washing- ton, D. C.; Janet King!ey, Boston; Betty Alge1·, Huntington, L. I.; Beverly Shepard, Albany. BETA THETA PHI The go.te~ts of the Beta The':a Phi fraternity will be the Misses Betty Smith, Weyliston; Louise Barnes, Weber School for Girls; Helen Zeit, S k. i d more ; Helen Tilley, Smith; Peggy Powers, Skidmore; Dorothy Russell, Maryland; Louise Speh, Wells; Miriam Nelson, Wel- lesley; Shirley Heck, Bennington; Emily Naylor, Vassar; Margaret Best, Colby College; Gladys Zim- merman, Colby College; Maty De- vine, Skidmore; Shirley Fleck, Col- lege of St. Rose; Caroline Cl1alker, Vassar; Janet Bigelow, Skidmore; Joan· Ipsen, Cornell; Eunice Goure, Russell Sage; Mary Lou Belcher, Skidmore; Virginia Fowler; Skid- more; Dorothy Gross, Mount Holy- oke; Janet Sprout, Wells; Betty Holden, Chevy Chase; Elsa Mae Heck, Bennington. CHI PSI The gueots of the Chi Psi frater- niyt will be the Misses Dorothy Rose, Montclair, N. J.; Barbara Sylveste!', Glen Rock, N. J.; Mar- jorie Hunter, Worcester, Mass.; Peggy Welden, Watertown, N. Y.; Peggy Witbeck, Sch~nectady; Coria Ennes, Sparrowbush, N. Y.; Alice l!oyd, Ossir..inb. N. Y.; MildrPd Cal- lan, Watervliet, N. Y.; Helen Hines, 'froy, N. Y.; Frances Dwyer, Springfield, Mass.; Ellen Dines, Brattleboro, Vt.; Betty Cargill, Binghamton, N. Y.; Helen Chand- ler, We•t Orange. N. J: C'am Mar- shall, Bay Shore, L. 1.; Jeanne Stewart, Binghamton, N. Y.; Helen Evarts, Ridgewood, N. J.; Jean Hal- lenbaugh, Mt. Laltes, N. J.; Mar- garet Ot·r, Springfield, Mass.; Har- riet Schwertly, Passaic, N. J.; Elaine Hardesty, Scotia, N. Y. The chaperones will be Mr. and Mrs. William Lehman and Mr. and Mrs. J. Leslie Schoolcraft. DELTA PHI The following girls will be the guests oJ the Delta Phi fraternity this weekend: the Misses Katherine (Continued on Page 5) members of l89o T earn Tell of First (3ame Rival Captains Predict Victory Both Captain Jake Amazon of the Union team, and Co-Captain Marty Hilfinger of the Hamilton squad predict a victory for their respec- tive teams in the classic Union- Hamilton grid battle tomorrow. Coach Art Winters of the Continen- tals, and \Nels\ Nitchman, Union's mentor, however, are less confident than are their captains, and both anticipate a hard game. Nitchman's Statement Union and Hamilton Close Seasons Tomorrow in Traditional Fashion Garnet Favored in 46th Renewal of Oldest College Series In N. Y. State, At Alexander Field; 5 Seniors in Finals Dni()n's hard-fighting gridiron machine returns to the local seene for the last time tomorrow afternoon, a clear-cut favorite to turn back the Hamilton College ·eleven on Alex- ander Field, in a game beginning at 2 p.m. A capacity crowd of some 5,00() \If the disconcerting effects of Opt·.m·tsm Preva·IIS having a big weelt-end and espe- cially a dance thl' night bc:>fore the On. cl·,nton Campus game, are not too great, our chance I I spectators is expected to witness this year's classic, as the Dutch- men and the Continentals close their rc.,pec:ive football campaigns in the traditional fashion star-ted of a victory in Saturday's game Is f 46th C( h large,\ said Coach Nitchman. He Or aS By LARRY PELLETTIER Although there are seviiral minor differences in the versions of the first Union-Hamilton football game, played in Clinton on October 25, 1890, in which Union trounced Ham- ilton 26 to 10, all versions agree that it was a whale of a game played in a sea of mud, and that formal conduct was suspended dur- ing the game. \Mud mud, and more mud, shoe high mud; mud in your eye, ears, hair, and mouth. Rain, rain, rain- the worst of my eig-ht years play- ing.\ is the way John L. van Val- ken-burgh, '93, left-guard on the Union team, des<Jt ibes the setting for the initial game, in a lette1· to the Concordiensis. Brayton Baibcock, '93, right end, also comments on the muddy field, and adds \As I recall, my opponent was a fine chap of about 180 lbs., my weight being about 142. This was my first game, and I was in- structed net to let any runner get around my end, which I tried my best to do. However. my opponent evidently did not enjoy my block- ing, and gave me warning he would give me a poke in thll face if I blocked him again. In a few min- utes he kept his 'JlTOmise and raised his fist and missed me, but to the referee it looked worse and he ordered him out of the game.\ .After the game all differences were for- gotten, however. for Mr. Babcock says \We certainly were royally en- tertained, and a better bunch of good fellows could not be found.\ Quarterback George Clute, '90 comments on the Union style of play, w-hich appa.rently consisted in r·ushing Hamilton off its feet. \The plays were executed as rapidly as the field would permit and our sig- nals were call eel for the next play as soon as the ball was downed. I think it was by the mes.ns of these hurry-up tactics that Union rather demoralized Hamilton, as we did not wait for the Hamilton team to line up before the next play was in progress. One of our signals was \Get out of the mud\ which was very appropriate that day.\ M1·. Clute points that Union had no coach; that the team itself devised most of its plays, and that all the linesmen with the exception of tbe (Continued on Page Sl added, however, \Hamilton will be keyed for this game, having lost all othet· games this season, and a victory over Union would malte Hamilton's record a success. Any advantage Union Itlay appear to have had in view of pre-game rec- ords this season might be elimi- nated by the effects of a heavy so- cial week-end before such an im- portant game.\ Winters Telegraphs Hamilton Coach Art Winters re- flected the tenor of Clinton opin- ion when he said in a telegraph to The Concordiensls, \Union ap- pears too strong but you can ex- pect a hard fought game.\ IDlflnger Confident Co-Captain Marty Hilfinger, Buff and Blue end. teleg1·aphed: \Two years ago Co-Captain Farrell and I vowed we would help Hamilton win this yeat· at Union regret we will be unable to play but we are sure Hamilton will win.\ Amazon Sees Vict-ory Jake Amazon, Union's captain who will be playing his last game for his alma mater tomorrow said. \Anything can happen in a Union- Hamilton game, but Union will be in there fighting, and I am look- ing for a victory over Hamilton to- morrow ... Union Squad Which Faces Hamilton Here Tomorrow Front Row: (left to right) Line Coach Walter J. Nelson; WallaCe Baker, '40; Sl1111Iier IrlslJ. '39; Oapt, Jacob Amaz'()n, '39; William Thomas, '39; Dcma.l!l Henderson, '39; Head Coach Nelson W. Nitclt· man. Second Row: (left to right) Richard Kearns, '411; Merlin Brockmyer, '40; Casimir Szymczyk- '40· William Lynn, '40; Fred Bums, '40; John Krull. '40; Leo Dwyer, '40; Fred Patrie, '40. ' ' Third R<lw: (left to right) Richard Balch, 41; Paul Mara, '41; Morris Weintraub, '41; Max Eisner, '41; George Greg(}ry, '41; Dieldnson Griffith, '41; Joint Vamrler, '41; Samuel Hammerstrom, '40. Fourth Row: (left to right) William Busino, '40; Ada.m Clesinslu, '41; Melvin Gerritz, '41; Bob 1\lol- loy, '41; George NOI'l'is, '41; John Guibert, '41; GIIy Mollicone, '41; Diamond 1\Iarotta., '41, Rival Correspondent Predicts First Victory ()f '38 for Hamilton Ry .Edward N. Main ?ublicity Director of Hamilton College The Hamilton College spirit which. for generations has made the. Hamilton-Union fol>tball game an historic classic is rising to new heights on the campus at Clinton this w·eek with the approach of the 46th battle between the gridiron fm·~es of Coach Art Winters and Coach. Nelson N!tchman. Despite the poor shmving Hamil- ton: has made in its football war- fare this year, not a bit of it is evVdenced in the attitude of the teiUU or in the support of the stu- dent body. A singing, laughing squad of upwards of 35 men is drilling daily on Steuben Field every afternoon and until far after <lnrk with the aid of floodlights, determined more than ever that this will be Hamilton's first vic- tory in 1938. As a means of pepping up the spirit before the game, an all- college athletic banquet has been planned for Friday evening, Nov. 11, in the Hall of Comznons. With the football squad as guests, the student body \vill join in cheers, JOZigs, and pep talks to show their gridiron representatives that Ham· !Item will even the count this yea1· wfih Union in the matter o.f vic- .ories and defeats. C1assM cancelled 'l'o permit the entire student body tu travel to Schenectady, the fac- ulty voted at a recent ineeting that dasses on Saturday will be pushed forward a half-hour, and that clc:sses after 10 a. m. will be can· celled. t.:nion and Hamilton·:; traditiOnal foo: ball Is one of the oldest in the history of Hamilton College. When intercollegiate football was estab- lished at Hamilton in lb90, the two institutions engaged in t1vo 15ames, · l:nlon winning the first, and Ham· iltvn taking the return encounter. In tb.e eleven games played be- tiVeen Hamilton and Union since Coach. Art Winters and Assistant Coach Mox Weber have been at tnE Buff and .Blue helm, Hamilton has won only two games at Sche- nectady, while Union has won only one in Clinton. In 1928 the Buff and Blue was winner on Alexander Fi-eld, 8-6, and in 1930 by the score of 7-6. The Garnet won in 1929, 21>-6 <ln Steuben Field. 'The Union squad must fear the B:andlton offensive Saturday for statistics show that in all but one ga;me this year Hamilton has gained more first downs than her opponent, although the squad has ·yet to enter the win-column of the ledger. back in 1912. Hamilton Yet to Win Hamilton has yet to win a game this season, while Union has come through with victories in two of its six contests to date. The Gar- net will seek revenge for the 7 to D setback suffered at Clinton in 1937, in this the 46th renewal of the old- est football rivalry between two New York State intercollegiate elevens. !?ive Dutchmen will see service in their final college game tomorrow. Led by the stellar captain an<l quarterback, Jack Amazon, the contingent includes Ray Lew1s and Don Henderson, ent!s, and Sumner Ir-ish, guard, in the line, and Billy Tltomas, halfback and Amazon in the backfield. Of the five, Lewi.s, Ir-ish, Thomas and Amazon will probably appear in the starting lineup. The home eleven will be at top strength against the visitors, witll the available services of Augie Kluge, starting tackle, John Qui- bert, end, and Jack Vannier, back These three Dutchmen have been inEligible for road games all yea~-. Team Patched Ur• 01her than close followers of the team little realize that the Union o11tflt has been. functioning as a )l'atched-up eleven for the past sev- eral weeks. Neariy every one of the regular linemen has had a leg in- jury sometime during the year. In t:he bacltfield, Thomas bas been the Sl()le veteran to escape a bruised sllottlder injury. Sam Hammer- strom, Union's brilliant halfback; 1vhom many believe to be a greater all-around player than the versatile Ralph Semerad of not too distant )l'ast, has been playing with both of his shoulde1·s bothering him. But, in spite of these drawbacks, tlle grim determination of the team a.s a whole, the headup leadership -•f Captain Amazon anri the inspi:r- lng .fupervisions of Head Coach =\rl~nn !'ritchman and Line Coach \o'Valter Nelson have enabled the e<Juad b register a fine record thus far. Had several close \breaks\ favorEd l.Jnion instead of going a.galrut it in ~everal early games, t 1-c Garnet sqm.d would h:n<\ rolled up a more impressive showing. Nevc:>rtheless, the current aggrega- tion has been deemed as fine an eleven to z·epres~nt Union as any C>f the past few years. Sciimmaged Frosh With two days of well-deeerved !'est behind tl:em, the local gridders !'es•1rned practice on Tuesday aft- ~rnocn, when the varsity checlted over the flaws prevalent in the Rochester affair. The climax of the week's drill schedule was reached u.n Wednesday, the regulars scrir.n- r.naging Coach Art Lawrence's freshmen utilizing the Hamilton style of play. Ac<\ording to latest word fz:om the Continental camp, the Clin· <Continued on Page 6)

Page Two THE GONCORDIE~SJS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1938 The Heahhy Animal .revive the fading spirit of the scbool as a IN THE MAIL ~~~·~· whole. ADVICE TO THE FAIRER SEX.I. 1 1 f • Dear Mr. Editor: i; . :].t is evident to t 1e co lege •o£•:t<eel'S that I've been around these parts for : ·:the failure to ·return or to su~po!ittlte coUeo•e a good numbe1· of years now <Even •. Ub======================•==;;;oo-:-' · b I · . · ·]• . -~' 1 \':. i.f I still am a junior.) and through-'' t th Cl b Grnurnr Y a Umm IS the resN t of the ~2Ci that then·. out this period of time, there has:.. Stuff .. • .. We _hear that Freddie bins find so attr:1etive :a e u B k the Petite last Saturday? . - .. T~e real'S spent here· were spent without the ac- been •one· thing that has continually 1; .. ronner ~s eepmg an eye .()n · Lambda ·Chi's have finally sold then FOUNDED 1877 \.-1 Causa Persa Parole Assai\ .:\leu•l·lt~l uf the As~oeiat~;:ll Colleg-iate Pres:;; aHd (1 i~tr 1 hUtf'll' of the Collegiate- Pig-est. ' . . - . - . irked me, to say the ·least. Maybe •,D U's thiS year ... Freddie !J!l-YS Th cumulatiOn of enoHgh of th~lt LHtangrble I'm sexually defunct, but the cropl,ihe is also down on t_he Ka:ps. ~e old heuse on Union 'Street-··· e Tla: uffieial newspaper uf the studPnts of Uuion Colleg..,. Pul>lished Tuesctur and. Fl'iday\ through- ''ut liH_· l·nl.l•ge y~;:ur. f h t Ik t w 1 Block U dinner· wil): •be abolished school ~pi1•it to hold their i'ntel'-€St. 'l'he of women that the Union men drag ::s.aw one 0 t em a 'n~ 0 a · 1 : now that George Dal~v- Is dead- .. . . , . . . ' up here to formal\ dances have . ha. m:s ma,n once . . . Jim Co(lpe! ' eff.orts Ill behalf of the Alumru Momthly and always impressed me as the pin- ::.kil.lecV a cow_ with his car . _. . Ty. pe~haps in the near :,uture · •· · Editorial Uuoms, Silliman Hall, Union College earn· pus. Tl'IPpholle, Se.hl•neetady, 4-0133. P·nlJIIeatinn O'ff.il'l', The Uazeue Pre1:1s, 334 Statl' St.~ Sc·henectat!y, N. Y., Telephone 'l-4141 D tt ll t b b k ol Johnny March: \The ·t·eason why the insm·ance endowment plan an~ong the headedest conglameration of fe- ' enne _ wt no e ac m c .- colle!!e prQfessms ·do.n.' .. t teach a , . . , , .• , .. . . _ ·. . males possible to assemble. ::lege this year. A r_ecurrence ,of 'h1s ·- t •membeu; ·of last .)eat s g.tadll~t:::mg class Since 1 am oeing forced to attend 1 r·heumatl: trouble 1 ~ the reason. man sense is that .tliey canna Elltt•Jt d at till' S~hl:'IICCtady Pont unl~ -u;--s~LUilll t ~Ll:-:!-\ .:\[ail .:\l'al'tt>t, shut·Uv before <>TaduatioH iHt(:) d'l!.e alumni the Gridiron Ba:JI by my fraternityl:The Addmg Machme was ()!1.e of ·steealvcehs.'~hYaotut~~u~~n~n~~veJ~~~~; • .. .'\' · . - br·others and since I'll have to in· the best per•formances we ha.ve bony \'\'et·e detimte failures. Somes ubscnbed .spite of myself, come in contact:. evet• seen the Mountebank.s give. . .. What has beceme of the Geor·gt; 8u0::JL'l\ipttull pr!L-~ Five .cclitl:3 a l'UJ}y, $3.00 u yt\ar; --~-e~~vert.•d U.ll~'\Vhcrc in the Utdtcd State~. ' F N th c 1'1 ge cot• Daley Memorial fund ?? . . . The to these .plans, but the proporti().n to the with some of the fairer sex, I have,' <rom our or 0 e · - . 1 . 1 .brary has a S\stern· ,this year Senior Board - · . gone to the trouble to set down a: t•espondcnt: The tree m the :yard • numllet ul th0se able was sm·all.. few sirnple commandments that the i was ·hit by a large Buick o11e :day which enables them to keep a rec- Fred!.\ riel' W. Hequenrbourg ..... Editor-in-Chief l'sl t:psih>ll Huuse-4-S710 '1' h b · t d t tl .. 1 · half d t d t h ld b 1 ·last week. The top of the bu·mper ord of the books taken out by each u t e o ::>et'VHlg- s u ·en· • l.eFe .rs a so ev1- way ecen a e s ou 0 ey.. ·. . B · k student. Also they ullo'\11. people who . . . . . The comlllandments, 0 fair ones.' was sc1•atched. Out of the utc ~lax I.en .............. - ...... Business Manager Kappa l\:u lluuse·-4-i331 H<>bert C. Walter, Jr ... , ..... Managing Editor 1'~1 tJ p,llon Huu•..,-4->710 dence· of It IH the holding of C<Jlle~e offtces. follows: , boun:ded Mrs. Fbx and she sto_od owe fine\ to taltc• ·out books. Any- ' j' . . , 1. ]·I 1 . , .·11 :1-\ f .. . 1. Do not say \My what a beau- ··lookin.g u.t the hec for full five rnm- une owing a fi.np will no• bE' .allowed n. eM nten · lU a t te I e;;poll::Hul· Ji Y u lllUi::ic . .' . : . . :. utcs A few davs later the tree was to g 1 aduate . . Dav-e· Light, who , . t1ful place thts r:;,' unttl you ve: · · J I' b fi .o1 tf:IE' campus posts 111 a de-:g.l'ee· not com- been het:e a: least ten minutes. :removed by the grounds cz·ew ... wz·JtP a panegryic on :1 rary nes · 'l•] · 1 1 · · i ? D t b lk t th 1 . : Ther·e were 0nly three feJ.low~ pt:es- in Tuesday's issue,. received ten pcttl u e Wit l any norma COll(!e 11L l'a hon (J -: · 0 no a a e mea: s.: , · s Ph' comp·lain!i;, four phol!le calls and . . . , . . .. . . rhmk~ of the guys who have to i; en. at the. dmner at the rg- 1 Jer·ome ::>mith ............... , ... Spot t~ Edito1· KapJJa ~u Huu~e- -1-~iJJl alnhtr. The lack of cheermg il:l th c athletiC . .JUt up with them all year. Be<;:>lace last .Saturday. Saratoga _and om tlg (through the o;naill in pro- ?'i t ft t e th atlractton• tC'st . . Hank Clay is bringing cunte~t.,, and, lllt>l'euvel', the ig'!IU.t'il'tl~e of the ;!des it cust a \balk\ or more tuj:: nr a~p on .w re. (' . , ff •• lice lfzom BPltimme.''' i>.nuwl to Rubel t A. ::;aaf ................... New.:; EJit\'t 1133 l':uJ,\\.uuJ Dl\d t Gl~:: H. \Vyman Hitchcock ............. Cup~ EJilur I lt·lt.t [ ~p~ilon Hom-le~-4-7~~:!:! . . • . ,at tLem downtown. , . . . Btl! Waz dwell has swmn o , song~ a!l(l cheE\I'!'\ are llll'ther evidence ot the 3. Do not be surptised when your Skidmore .. What did Bill' R~-------~-c_o_n_t_in_u_e_d_o_n_P_i_g~.e_8_l_--:: John ~1alun<·.. . ........ CiJculatiun ~latwget . __ _:l.c.\::.:!tl:_::·K:.:.''.::.)'.:..:t·~-· .:.;· '...:'\..:..'':...· ·_:_l·.c.';.:..:~l;~:::l_ _ _ _ _ ___ _ REPRESENTED FOR NA.TIUI\I.AL AOVERTISINU. £1Y National Advertising Service, Inc. Coliege PJ1-bli.51Jers RepresettJr#it·e 420 MADISON AVE, NEW YORK, N, Y. Cru ... AGO BOSTON ' Los AHGEI.Efl \ SAN fRAHClSCO Junior I>;ditorial Board l' Hus:-;l'IJ J )t~ro n t.·ol ge I.. PL~t I< L'hr islupher !\1. Fnhy L~Irl y PL'!Ietti12r Etl\\ill A. !-\11.z Jr. Sophomore Editorial Board l· 1 aul Bt·l\iit·r. HldJHtd lleuya11 • .Johu l.t'\\ol:o- . .lttlll! r'hlliJI:\' :\lortiJJJel l~IIIJll!S, ltubert ~chulJJl·r~. Las!Gn Sl.\1\\illl. .I; Illt-~ E T\\ltlillg. BusinPss Staff· I {obert Ei::Hlel', Jacl< Hahinowitz, \\'illJaln Cuate:s, Armaud l 1 ,eigenlm urn. Bta111ey Greenstein, A wl:v Kay, Ju:--tin l't-rlstelll. \\'ill.iam Yuung, Dnnald I Ialgh, .\rti.IUI\ lJ:t\\1~. Issup I~ditor.-- .. -.-.- . .\.\. Hequeinbow·g-and Walt!'r Assistants .Junior and Sophomm·p Boards Fzidar. NoYcmber 11, 1938 MAY THE BEST TEAM WIN failure of school spirit. It ·is not ::necess<ll'Y Joy friend pulls out a bottle of· · 11 · h' b · f 1'h quat. The wa·er up hete is pol- LO Cite them a Ill t rs ne space_ e EX- .ute<l. i is ~ence Gf' the school is not threatened. BLit 4 . .Do not docrb!e date. It is a sign. . ' >f in~xpelience. Ask the girl whc · ther-e lS matenal as well .as an. i 11tang-ihle louble dater. That is if you can find ]OS:i to the SChOOl. >llC WhO has been invited Up again. There are many activities on tit>€ campus inviting the participation of til€ students. fhe mtramuml progwm ofle:t·s cl· ~lumce in athletic~ to a vast majority uf ,the students. Yet, 11·e feel that there is a lack of activities of the right kind. The intrarn unl program seems to strengthen dormitory ·o.r.· .fraternity spirit. The other activities have :no conela- tion with the general purpose of the colleg-€. The }Jroposed contests between the mem- bers of the lower classes ai'e a step in the right direction. The activitie-s aie concen- 5. Do not u»e contagious ma-l~e- ~p. It doesn't look half bad on . ;iris' faces but it c1 eates the ' :~nics' effect on : uxedoes. 6. Do not nPck in public. It on!~ , br:ngs out the animal in the fel- · ·ows who a1·e lo'lkiug on. Anyway · 1t's much more fun in the back seat of a car. These, by the grace of God, are my sentiments. If, in their little ' way, these bits of wisdom make someone's week-end more enjoy- able, I will feel my taks has been well done. Anyway, I like to see my scribblings in print. Yours in a habitual dither, Hari Kari. tntted in a single class, offering- chunces to II ll many. The nat.m·al 1·ivalry betweetL the two . M 0 T I 0 N _ loweT classes is a natural basis ;fo.r strong 1.!::============1.1 spil'it. In the current issue of \Ken Walter Wanger writes of the trou- lts success will depend upon tl1ecare with bles besetting Hollywood. He be- Back in 1890, fourteen young college stu- which it is dit·ected. With tne ±'·inn estab- lieves there should be more ade- dents sh·usnrled by horse and buggy and quate pwvision made for training ~-- lishment of these contests, lei the I'e be an young actors, more experimenta~ trains to our campus from Clinton, New exrmn:-;iun of the plan to the ll)>.....,er classes. tion in types of plots, and less Y k h b f f · .I:' money paid to stars, technicians or , W ere e ore a group O cunous spec- writers and directors. Walter will tatm·s, they battled with a group of l'niunites be pleased to know that we agree on Library Field in the first football game with him on most of those points, but he'll probably wonder why we between these no\\' archaic rivals-Cnion and IN THE MAIL insist that the director, of all pea- Hamilton. The fact that they braved the pie, shouldn't have his magnifi- cent, colossal, stupendous stipend elements and stl'Uggled through the mil·e to ro the Editor: ~urtailed. so we'll tell him. see who could push a potato shaped ball In an attempt to clat ify the i~sues Ylhlch.t lwve now In the first place the good direc- al'isen ov~r the investigation of th:e Uni<()n College tors should be an inspired busy- across the others goal line on that memor- body \Vho is ready and able to ac- Band, l should· like to pt esPnt the st:and •ta-ken by the aole nay, made it po~sib]e for the:;e two col- Stuuent Louncil at it.\ !a.::;t meeting, :ept the responsibility of co-ordi- nating all the activities that help leges to compete yea!' after year, until today At that :ime the Student Council waspn[;ented with to make a motion picture. He the series hetwee11 the two teams is the long-- a request fl om the band for· an additi-{)na.l.su.un of $ 200 • must be a man who knows his own which 1vuuld inctease their budget to app-ro-ximately job, and knowing his own job con- est continuous one in New York State. $1l'•5 A wide-awake govemment questi(llls such a.c- sists in knowing what everybody uon, csjJecially when so large a sum is a.Sked for, and eh;e should be doing, from the lowly Since 1912, the two colleges have wound that in brief explains this so-called invesli.ga.tion. sould who butters the bread used up their grid season each year by meeting· Contmry to the beliefs of many .students, this inves- for sandwiches in the night-club' tigaticn has not the extinction of the band as its pur- scene all the way up the scale to the other. A victor~: in this game is always pose. A committee of five men wa.s appointed, one Letitia Lambent, the glamorous ample recompense for an otherwise mediocre of whom was the student leader of the band and star. He should be able to direct w •• o.e pz in.e purpose on the council i.s in th:te interest.s the construction of sets, the Iight- se<:tSOII. So keen has become the rivalry of of that ,;ame band. Had the objcetlve be~n to put the ing of scences, and eventually the these two ins•titutions on the football field, '~nd out cf Pxistence, the student leader surely cou!.d cu!ting of the film into a smooth- have been omitted ftom this committ-ee, Iy-running 60-to-9rJ minute feature. that past performances usually have little Howevet, this investigation need not be concerned ready for distribution. This on~ signifigance. Last year, for example, Union with pet sona!!ties, and let it not be said •tlllal it is an task may very well involve dis- . t th II 'It effrontery to anyone. The Student Counc!I functions carding half or more of the film had wun four games, Pl'!Ol' 0 e anu on in the students' behalf and in whose Intemsts it must used during the earlier stages of contest. some of them ag·ainst opponents be .concf't ned if it is to be at all repr est•nta tive. Mem- production and is probably the one that had humiliated the Buff Hlld Blue .JC1o cf lhe band obviously fall withia thi.<!eategory of most important source of direc- 3tu~ento And Jil{ewise, it can be truJllfull~ said that tor's gray hair. earlier in the year, but when the final whis- this investigation i~ as much in faV()'I' of th.te band in- But long before he has to worry. I · · th t t h d I.] tcrests a.s opposed. about cutting he has to drill the t e tennmatmg e con es a u OWH on hypothetical Letitia ... in her lines, h · Pet hap_; the financial set-up of the ba11.d is being Steuben Field~ Union was once more t e VIC- questioned? And maybe there is some doub 1 as to the boys, in her lines. Consider that the t . f th Cl' t · · mora' e of the band? But ts not all thjs a. he:althy situ- director of Vivacious Lady had to I In 0 e Ill on J lll X. re-take scenes involving Ginger a !ion? Along with these views t:here bave been Tomorrow Union will meet Hamilton for others, too. which the band may present justifiably. Rogers as many as twenty or thirty times, while experienced actors like the 46th time. The season records of the two Such a;, why Is the student body persistent in failing Beulah Bondi and Charles Coburn to realize the pzoblem\ of the band\? The:y do have squ~tds indicate a victor\ for the Garnet;. tlifficultie.s in attracting men, in :keeping interest could dispose of their scenes in one \ \take.\ And at least thirty per t-ut c'tnvthi'n~r_ call happen a~ ·the· pas·t so ably alive, and in training their men. It cannot be denied t f th 1 d u · ·-· .-. · that those in charge of the band have done a fine job cen ° e so-cal e stars ar·e · d Wh t th t b pretty nearly as troublesome as remm s us. a. ever e ou come may · e, under the circumstances. However, m;g.bt not these Miss Rogers. Obviously then, when we want to take this opportunity to welcome same circumstances be improved, if at all 'possible? so-and-so is accused of giving a . 1 I L. d The investigating committee was appoi~ted with \good performance\ the director is our Hamt ton neig-1uors to our campus an this end m view, and was specifica.U\ tnst ructed ac- 11 · ' usua y responstble, unless the ac- we sincerely hope that the cordial relations cordingly. They were charged to t;ap. all a.vailable tor in question is in the habit of h h . d b . th t soutce.s and instructed to utilize evet:y avai:lable med- giving good performances no mat- t at ave ex1ste · .etween us 111 · e pas ium fro sathering information, crltlcisZll, and con- ter who directors him. will continue down through infinitr. l\lay stt urtiw suggestions. Their compreheni. ve report Therefore, Mr. Manger, go a lit- the best team wi nl will be submitted at the council meeting on December tie easy on the director. Remem- FROSH-SOPH RIVALRY 14, together with their recommenda.tion.s: 1 can.not her that it's not for nothing that repeat .too ernphat ically that the Student <Council is directors become famous. Look at · not aiming to shut out the band. The cor.mnittee may John For.:l of RKO. Look at Frank Pf!ually recommend the education of the :slt.lldent body Capra of Columbia. Look at Percy in genetal regarding the band; or the:y m::ay rec0m- Vivian of MDF. Go ahead look at mend further recogn itlon for the b:and.smoen in the him! 'J. M. wa:y of awards: they may make sug,gest..ions regard- The news columns of this issue contflin a ing ·thelt finances. type of unifor·ms, ot· system as a ~Ei ~ ~·:·~ 1 whole. ln short, the committee may do any-thing, all, ~· A. · = ston· of a meeting- of freshman and sopho- or «ven none .of these things stated !,ere. They have; M1.S _ · , mo1·e class officers with the se.cretary of the been charged with an investigation,anclitlsin behalf - of the band• as well as of other student InterEsts. college, his assistant, and the president of The situation is quite a wholesom-e om fr(lm the the Student Council. The concern of the vie'INpoint or student government. meeting was the making of plans for arous- ing the spirit or these classes in an effort to DAVID L. YUNJCI-1., 'SO Presidilnt of Stu dent Council Fri., Sn t.. s-un., J\f &:h. A Gr~at Picture •• • of human down to eat:lll folltR ..• wltl! Boll Burns 8.Jtoning all the lovable qualities of WILJ, ROGimS. \A Rl{ANSAS TRAVELER\ with Fay Bltlnt«r, Jolni neal, ofean P1uker 2nd lift! \lJ 'IRAI•'F!C\ TODAY! ~~·]j (•Jill &: SATUR[)AY THE SHOW OF 1001 WONDERS BLAC:KSTOI\rE: ON S()REEN! • WORLD'S GREATEST MAGICIAN $ IN PERSON Company of :10 •l'eople--3 Carloads of Scettet•y Barbara Stanwick \THE Ml\ll MISS MANTON\ Uenry Fonda Also ]I[ ARCH of TIME EXTRA.! SA'l'. NIGH'i' I:'< AllllJ.'lHlN' TO LAS'!' SIHlW • \SPOOK\ ~sHOW ~:!:~ :::..~c: ~:n:~tTel.- ~ phone Laboratories ktJeFs talking •.• talking .•• ~ talking into this new type telephone. Other telephones are being frozen, steamed, baked, lifted and. drfjpped into their cradles by l!laehines. Why all these lab()ratory tortures? Simply h~~:ause your telephone must prove it can take m()l'e use and abuse than it will e-ve1• get in its normal lifetime. It must he ready to give you the best possible telephone service. Exhaustive testing (){ Bell System apparatus is one reason you can depentl. on your telephone always. = ' N De~• Dr.a For 26 'lnflu.,. On !II' Is ne The· wilhp caters NewlE gue;,;~ tlle •G-: housep campiU MooE be Me1 Amenc guest..: held th Btadsh addres~ rnunity Pt,esid..: a spee< Lebrici ence, ~ Amo1 ternatll will tui be Dr. lt.liOWil much and nD> missiot:: at the· the ED Burges lege fa.< Dr. W. preside be the The, mornlo \Avent..:J Flo rene dilnts ::~ and ''...1 panel 1 also he Esthe1· tor of lege, ~~ tinue~~a On I Tldmalll: 'followl:t guests the hor Tarnl!t cnce IV\ est gro the Eo fet·ence Outi1 Rea 1 li Appt- b:y nte.: for the an old man 13 dent oj The to hel~ old btL: cJ:tased. Gore l\.i said. Abo!Zl parliclJ WOOd'W' and s~l Waldro Clay, -, lege h:;.; t_he pu:; Two Wright to the weekct:J plies ·f< work i( Berg 1- Dr. J Ithaca. lean r:: neer s J ject \E tics.\ E ter, Ell ]>l'esel!.1

The their . The why a annat them- . The year rec- each who Any- lowed . who fines ten and pro- nging wl to THE GONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1938 Page Three M~_. ~ ~- Rooseve_lt_a_n_d~R~ex_fu_rd_· _Tu_~g_w_ell Speak Here De~.ans Conference Dr.aws Educat·ors For 2~Day Session 25'0 :Delegates Here 'l'nfluoen<:e of Environment On Wr~di~idlJal Students'' Is neane of Meeting The· Uaion c.an:pus will be flooded· with g-uests this weekend as 25(} edu- cators fFo·m .schools throughout New lilork State, and neaily 300 gue;;t.r of stuchent:; who will attend the •G-rid.ilon Ball and .fraternity housepartles converge up<ln the campiL'l. MosE prominent of the gueste will be Me1·s.. Ihanklin D. Roosevelt, Amenca's f.ii:;t lady who will be guest >l()f :honor at a luncheo·n to be held ·thi~ noon at which D1•. Francis BtadshaiV will deliver the plincipal addres..s on the subject \The Com- munity as Pax t of the Curri-culum\. Pt•esidoent Dixo·n Ryan Fox will give a. speech of welcome and Dr. Paul Lebr iclt, 'Who will head the confer- ence, will introduce the speakers. Arno ng the other prominent, in- ternatl onally known figures who will tuil:e part in the .conference will be D1. R.eldor.d Guy Tugwell, best known .of Pre~ident Roosevelt's much pllblicised \brain-trusters\ and ne»w ()f the City Planning Corn- missioJ:J. o:f New York. He wiH speak at the· dlbner to be held tonight at the EDt€! Van Curler at -which Dr. Burges J~hnso-n of the Uni<m Col- lege fu.culty will be toastmaster, and Dr. W. H. Cowley, newly-inducted president of Hamilton Col!e.ge will be the s]leakers. The conference, which began this mornlog with a panel dis·cussi<>n \Avenoes of Guidance,\ led by Miss Florence M:cAlpine, advisor to stu- d-ents :at the Geneva High School, and \-Avenues of Guidance,\ the panel iopic f(H the college groap also held .tbi.s morning, led by Dr. Esthe1· Ll<();rd Jones, Assodate direc- tor of Pe1:sonnel at Teache·rs· C<>l- lege, €:-'ol!Lmbia University, will con- tinue .~antiJ Saturday. On Fl'i<la.y afternoon Dr. Elmer Tldm:ursh will give an organ recital 'followl:ng which the con:ference guests will be <Jntertained at tea at the ho1me of President Fox. Tornf!Orto()W morning the confer- ence w-iU again break up into inter- est grouj)11 for panel disctlssjons at the Hotel Van Cut•ler and the con- ference w·lll adjourn at n()oh, ---0--- 0utill<J Club Choppers Rea 1 liz~ $25.00 Profit Appt-o:ximately $25 was realized by me.mbers of the Outing Club for their work in chopping down an old elm tr<Je in front of Silli- man 13ali., Pet<Jr Owens, '39. presi- dent o:f t:he club has annomtced. The rnoney made will bE ~ed to hel~ ]!B)' for the restoring of an old biLilding (}D the recently pur- cllased. Duting Club propeJty on Gore ll.!!t. near North Creek, Owens said. AboUit j5 members of the club parLicl:::pated In the work and the wood wvas sa wed into fireJlla.ae size and S()ld tG eampus residilnts. Drs. Wald!on and Bronner and Henry Clay, -wh.<Ose room in North Col- lege h::.as a :tli\eplace were among t._be pu:;rcbasers. Two Ot:ltlng oClub members, Jerry Wright IWld John Warnel', -will go to the CJabin at North Creek this weekeod. They will take up sup- plies ·f>l()r the winter and aid in the work i()f repairing the cabin. ----0•--- Berg A<lclresses Engineers Dr. :Erost J .. Bel'g addressed the Ithac11- ar-ea members of the Amer- ican rnstltute of Electrical Engi- neers Jas~ Friday night on the sub- ject ''Eeavisidce and His Mathema- tics.\ Bepresentatives from Roches, ter, El!miJ•a, and Binghamton were pres ell. t. Discuss Methods Of Building Up Class Spirit May Re¥ive Contests Underclass Officers Meet With Yunich, Wyatt 1 and Dr. Waldron Wednesday, Nov. ~-The officers of the freshman and sophomore classes met this afternoon with Charles N. Waldron, Secretary of the College, Frederic Wyatt, his assistant, and David L. Yunich '39, president of the Student Council, in Dr. Waldron's office to plan steps for a revival of class spirit In the stude:p.t body. Suggestions were advanced for a program of interclass competition with a point system of scoring to determine the superior of the two lower classes. Dr. Waldron assured the group present that if alumni interest were aroused, it might be possible to secure some recognition to the class amassing the most points. If the freshman class wins two out of the first three events, Yunich said the Student Council would consider removing some of their duties. College Spirit Poor The meeting, according to Yun- lch, came as a result of the grow- ing feeling that the spirit of the school is at low ebb. It has been reflected in the difficulty fo main- REXFORD TUGWELL ll ' . . a1mng contact w1th recent alumni. The plan of the group is to kindle college spirit with the end of greatet· alumni interest in the college in view. The emphasis is being placed upon the spirit of the lower classes. Contrary to the trend which caused the disappearance of class offices, these offices have been ·recreated to serve this need. To Meet Again Wednesday The underclass officers will re- port to their respective classes a general plan of competition. The sophomore class will meet with its president, Ro·bert Molloy, in the Mountebanks Theatre during the assembly period on Monday, while the freshman class will meet with its pres-ident, Robert Baker, in the Old Chapel at the same time. The officers will meet again next Wednesday with the secretary to considel' making definite arrange- ments for the plan. Competition Planned Yunich advanced a tentative plan of competition with a general meet, possibly a tug-a-war, and interclass lacrosse games in the fall. During the winter .the classes will meet in basketball and perhaps in swim- ming. The spring contests will be in baseball and perhaps another general meeting with all compet- ing. Those attenotng the meeting were Robert Molloy, John Canfield, How- ard Mott and Morris Weintraub of the sophomore class, and, Robert Balter, William Coates, William Harkness, and Robert Murphy of the freshman class. During the Gridiron Ball HALE HOUSE will serve you and your friends from 10 to 3 e Club Sandwiches 15c to 35c 50c Laundry Tests Prove ARROW NEW TRUMP gives longer wear! Out· handsome Arrow New Trump has the longest- wearing soft collar you've ever worn. You'll 1ind greater comfort in New Trump's collar. And New Trwnp won't shrinl{-because it's Sanforized/ . • , $2 Fei9enbaum Wins Freshman • Spelling :Match King Places Third; \Opprobio~:.~s\ Is Winning Word; Coffin Presides Az ruand V. Feigenbaum of Pitts- field, Mass., won the H. L. Bagger.ly ;n ize last night when he defeat eli 23 other members of the freshmen ~lass in the final round of the third annual freshmen spelling bee helc; :n Oltl Chapel under the din,ct:un ;,f the divi»ion of Literature. Mz·. Bagge1ly, '94, publisher of the Los Gatos Mail-News. Los Ga- .c.s, California, Instituted monetary .prizes th1·ee years ago to instill the college und'ergraduates with the zeal to learn how to spell correctly. Samuel 'Kohlenberg of New Yorlt City was second misspelling the word \opp1:obrious.\ Eric T. King, jr., of Washington, D. C. misspelled ebullition, and placed third. Dr. Harrison C. Coffin, Professcr of G!'eek and chairman of the divi- sion of litel'ature was interlocutor and announced the words which were to be spelled by the 24 final- ists. The Z80 studente who com- prise the freshmen class held elim- ination contests in their respective English classes to select two men from each of the 12 sections to re ]!- resent the g-roups. The word, phthisis (the old term of tuberculosis.), caused the down- fall of five students. Other words which caused men to lose out were: antediluvian, artillery, canonad- ing, cantaJoape, cerulean, diarrhoea hyacinth, idiosyncrasy, lecherous: Hello Alumni TO THE OLD TIMERS MURRYS Now Next to the High School on Not+ Terrace Stop in and Say HELLO Jackman Leaving for Scotland If Union Doesn't Beat Hamilton ~------- --- ----- \If Union fails to beat Hamilton . I wi!I pack up my things and pep rallies and no professional ·leave,\ said Edward F. Jackman, coaches. Football is the more spec- Scottish F.xchat:ge student fr· 0 m · tacular game because in Rugby St. Andrew\ Univet·sity told a Con- there are no planned plays. Play is .cordiensh; reporter today in an continuous in Rugby and is di- intervie\v in which he c 0 mpared vided in two halves of 35 minutes American football with the game each. A Rugby team is composed ·Of Rugby which is played t>:cten- of 15 players and if one member is sively in the British Isles. injured the team carries on with- out a substitute. The Bl'ith·h Rtndent is much mure ·in·te1·ested in part;cipating in a Scotch Get \Blues\ .sport than in watching a game, 1 . If an athlete distinguishes him- Jackman said. St. Andrews span- self from his teammates he re- .sot·s as many a,; four teams in ceives a \blue·· which is compar- Rugby and on a Saturday all four ,able to our \Block U.\ However, :nay be playing at di!'ferPnt places. every member of the fir~t team ·Censequcnlly att.endance at ath- does not get the \blue\ as only six ·Jetk contests does not amount tu or seven best memb€:rs of the Rug· .the .proportions reached het·e in by team a~e honored. America. An attendance of about St. Andrews pl~ys the other Scot- 400 might be expected at a home tish universities, Edinburgh, Glas- g2.me of Rugby at St. Andrews. St. gow, and Aberdeen: the most im- Andrews enrollment includes about portant game of the season, per· GOO men and 500 girls, and the girls haps comparable to our Hamilton pat'ticipate in inter-collegiate con- game, io the Edinburgh contest. tests in field hockey and lacroo;se. Rugby Season Long Football Exciting The I n t e r n at i o n a I R u g by matches, however, draw as many Jackman said he \was definitely as 70,000 spectators. International excited by American football.\ team$ arC' non-professional in char- Football contests here are much :wter and are made up of the best more of a spectacle than they are Rugby players in the British Isles at St. Andrews where there is no St. Andrews last year had one stu· ·organized cheering, no band, no <Continued on Page 8) Test training as more than a graduate course in engineering-it is a carefully formulated plan· of training young engineers for leader- ship in industry. UMIDGIT SliN*' .,PROM AM£R.JCA~ FROM INDIA, FROM ENGLANDu FOR years Old Sol has had things pretty much his own way-causing sunburn, having sunspots,. and wandering periodically north and south of the equator. SCANNING the recent rolls of young men on Test with General Electric gives the impression of reading membership lists in an \International House\ at some large uni- versity. For, intermingled with graduates of engineering schools all over the United States are, for example, Cariapa from Kashmir, in India; Bambery, from\ 'way down under\ in New Zealand; Gurewitsch, of Roumania; and Chia-Hsu Hou, of China. But predominating in the picture are picked men from American colleges and universi- ties. Selecting names at random from the various Tests inevitably shows student engineers from widely separated parts of the country working side by side. Miller of Arizona U. and Olsen of Brooklyn Tech. worked together on motor and genera tor tests. Schmid of Wisconsin ran turbine tests with Norris of Texas Tech. Testing induc- tion motors were Loew of \V ashington and Owens of Union College. General Electric's executives look upon this Now a young upstart about the size of a cigarette has been announced by General Electric. lt is the new woo-watt mercury lamp, which, even though many million times smaller than the sun, has one fifth the brilliancy of Old Sol's surface. Source of the brilliant light is the lamp's highly concentrated arc-12 times more brilliant than the incandescent filament of a Iooo-watt standard projection lamp. Labo- ratory tests show that the \upstart\ will be of great value in searchlights, photoengrav- ing, blueprinting, photoenlarging, and as an aid to medical science. GENERAL fj} ELECTR~~

Page Four :EUery Installs Florida Chapter Of Sig tna Xi Dean Offi Faculty Receives Desk Set In Appreciation For His Work In Florida Dt·. Edwaid Ellery, dean of the Union College faculty. retm·ned re- cently from Gainesville, Florida, where he i:nsta:l!ed the newly or- ganized Univet·sity of Florida Chap- ter of Sigma Xi. Dt·. Ellery-, national secretary uf Sigma Xi, ~polre at a banq_uet fo!- lowing the installation and ni.- spcech was described as \one of th~ most nla>Jte tful - one of the most :;incere- ·and one of the most bl'il- liant addresses evet· delivered at a State University'' by a local press release. Tho: topic of his address was \The Utge to Know\ and was delivend aftet· he had in- ducted 011e '\\·oman and 48 men into the new chltpter. l'r~s.ented with Gift Following his o;peech he was pre- sented with an onyx based desk set bea.l'ing a brass plate on which was inscribed \To Dr. Ellery from the !<'lorida cha11teJ· of Sigma Xi in appncia:tion fot· his work at the installation of the Flortda chapter.\ Arnon:• ot:her speaket·~ at the one- day session was Charles Carrol Brown, oldest living past national ptesident of Sigma Xi and a ·mem- ber of the 1Jnion chapter while he was a profes:oor in civil engineet·- ing at Union College from 1886 to 1~93. He was prestdent of Sigma Xi from 1893-1295. M. L. Wilson, under·-secretary of the United States Department of Agriculture also spoke and Dr. Leigh. dean of the graduate school at Florida UniveJ·sity, wati toast- master-. Dr. Elle1y left Schenectady Wed- nesday, October 26, and \'turned Sunday. Octobe1· 30. - 0 Record of 49 Year Old Hamilton.:Union Rivalry \Key Reporter\ Reveals Phi Betes in Who's Who According to the \Key Re- portei,\ the Phi Beta Kappa Society magazine, there a.re 5,468 members of the society mentionec~ in \Who's Who ln America.\ or one to every five and three-fourths of the names in the book. Considering how many have to be included In \Vho's Who because ef thei·r public position (Congressmen, etc.) this is a very good show- ing. At Union College there are eighty-two men on the faculty of which thir-ty-two members of the social studies and literature divisions only are eligible foJ' Phi Beta Kappa, the remainder having degrees. in sume field of sci£>nce. Of the thirty-two men eligible for Phi Beta Kappa, twenty-five have gained this honor or 68 per cent of them. It is also interesting to note that several of the faculty wives an• also members of Phi Beta Kappa. -- -~ ---------- -- -- Country Moving. Toward Liberalism O'Rourke Declares Republican Victory Called Result Of Political Cycle, And Personality Issues Thursday. Nov. 10.-Despite the Republican victory throughout the nation in Tuesday's elections. the country is still moving in a liberal d·irection. or at least is not moving in a conservative direction. said. Dr. Vemon A. O'Rom·ke, associate pro- fessoJ of gove1·nment. in daily as- sembly this morning. In mauy of the elections. local conditions and personalities deter- :nined the outcome. The parties and the voters were not concet·ned with the struggle between the lib- erals and the conset vatives. When- ever a party ia in power for a length of time. the machine tends to become lax and personality struggles arise. 1~90 1890 1891 1892 1893 1894 Hamilton Union In Rhode Island the issue was 26 the ;;tt·uggle between the O'Hara 16 and Gov<>rnor Quinn groups over 10 5 14 0 -· 0 0 1897 ....... . .......... 4 1898 ... . 17 0 31 28 5 1899 19U2 1903 ..... 1904 1905 1907 1908 1909 1910 1911 1912 1913 1914 1915 1916 1917 1918 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923 1924 1925 1926 1927 1928 1929 1930 1931 1932 1933 1934 1935 1936 1937 17 . . .. . ' .......... 6 . ... . . ......... 6 .. .. . . 0 .................... 0 ................... 19 . . . . . . ............ 12 . . . . . . ......... 12 ........... 7 .................. 0 ............ 0 ............ 0 . . . .......... 2 ............... 0 .... '' ..... ······· 6 .................. 3 ................... 7 . .. . .. .. . 6 ................ 9 .......... 0 . . . . . . . . ...... 0 .................... 0 ................... 6 .................... 8 .... .. .. ......... ... 6 .................... 7 .................. 0 .................. 0 .................... 12 .................. 0 .................... 7 .................... 0 ................... 7 279 G~t.me RPcord 6 the Nanagansett Race Track. Van- 12 der.bilt, the Republican. was an 34 easy victor. In Connecticut, the 96 Republican victor had slightly over 4 one-third of the ballots cast, indi- 10 eating a split on personalities. The 0 Curley-Hur!E>y fight in thP Demo- a crat prima!'ie.s in Massachust>tts 0 . assuned victory to the Republican 0 candidate. 0 ~lany have a~sumed that a Re- O publican victory at the polls was 18 synonomous with a return to con- 0 servatism. The assumption is 0 wrong, said O'Rourke, because 0 many Republican candidates es- 15 paused libeml ideas. 7he Republi- 0 can social viewpoint in the election, 26 a,; reflected in theit· ·platforms, was 0 as li'beral as that of the Democl'ats. 28 The history of the American po- 0 litical scene is a story of cycles in 0 support of the two major pa1·ties. 0 The Democratic party has been in 0 ~he ascendancy since 1928, complet- 7 mg ten years of a democratic trend. fJ A reaction against the Republican 21 party in 1930 after long yeats in the 14 saddle swept the Democrats into 62 office. This feature of the political 0 habits of the nation should be kept 36 in mind in any attempt to evaluate 6 the results of the election in terms 6 of the struggle between conserva- 25 tism and liberalism . 6 0 6 0 19 6 18 0 523 AFTER THE GAME Meet Your Friends at the Smart Spot in Town Harnilto11 _ ................... 17 They'll All Be at Union .......................... 18 Tie Games . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 So!rlething Different ROMANOFF'S 2~4 Nott Terrace For that 11 p, m. snack Kosher Sandwich Opposite Van Curler Union visits Carlson's for School Supplies Drawing Equipment - Artist Materials CARLSON'S 515 State St. Cor. State & Barrett THE CONCORDtENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1938 MAKE-UP TESTS Chi:nese Problem Subject of Debate At Town Meet.ing• · Monday, November 14 Student Council Considers Plan For Benefit Concert Held On Sunday At 2 o'Clock In Memorial Chapel \Shall We Get Out of China,\ will be the topic for discussion at the Schenectady Tewn Meeting of the Ail' which will be held Sunday afternoon at 2 o'clock in Memorial Chapel. The debate and discussion will be broadcast over Station WGY. The affirmative side of the debate will be argued by Dr. Arnold Ver- duin who will take the stand that it is too late to do an~·thing about China and that the best thing for Americans to do is to clear out and thereby avert the possibi.Jity of war. Dr. Verduin is a student of inter- national affairs and has been asso- ciated with Buffalo State Teachers' College, New Paltz Normal School, and has been leader fm· the Sche- nectady Public Forum in the 1937- 38 session. He has recently trav- eled extensively in Europe observ- ing foreign affairs. He has wtlitten articles for the Commeutatov, American Mercury, and other periodicals. Greenbit> Tulres Negative Sydney Greenbie, Schenectady and Capital District Forum leader will take the negative stand and will argue that it is impractical for us to get out of China in view of our many commercial and financial interests; that to allow Japanese hegemony over all Asia would be a threat to Eastern civilization. Greenbie ha:; t uv<?lecl widely and has a wealth of anecdotes gather- ed from all corners of the earth. He has lived in Japan, China. Aus- tralia, South America, India and in Europe and has had the oppor- tunity to observe people in all walks of life. He has written for sue h imp or tam periodi<:als as Harp- CIS, the American Mercury, World's Worlr and the ReadeJ•s Digest and has been a special fea~ure writer for the Christian Science Monitor. ----0---- Miss Dorothea to Sing At Sunday Organ Recital In tne bunuay organ recital. D1·. Elmer A. Tidmarsh will repeat his all-Wagner program of several weeks ago. Dr. Tid·marsh has had many requests to repeat this pro- gratn. Mi::;s Dotothea, o;oprano, of Palm Beach, Florida i::; to be guest soloist en Sunday and will sing the \Pre- lude\ and \EI01a's Dream fr·om the Ge1·man composer·,; \Lohengrin.\ The program: I. March from \Tannhauser\ Pilgrim's Chorus f rom \Tannhauser\ II. Forest Murmurs from \Siegfried\ Prelude and Liebestod from \T1·istan and Isolde\ III. Prelude to \Lohengrin\ Prelude to the Third Act from \Lohengrin\ Elsa's Dream from \Lohen- grin\ IV. Ride of the Valkyries ftom \Die Walkure\ PARK HEREj THE:RE'S PLE:NTY OF' ROOM And Om· Superior Hotel Type of Barber Service COSTS YOU NO MORE FALCONE'S HOTEL VAN CURLER Large Staff of Barbers HEALTHFUL All Year 'Round FRO-JOY ICE CREAM (11:2()..12:10)-.Geology, Professor Smith, Geology LabOl•a-tory, 24. At a meeting of the executive (1:30-~:30)-BlDlogy 21, Professor Sco.tt, Biol 0 gy Labot·atory, 101; 'committee ~f tlhe Student Counci'l Chem1stry 11, Prefessol' B~con, Choemi.Stry Laboratory, 307; Chemistry yesterday aftei•noon Herbert Fox, 21, Professor Hurd, Chemtstry Lal:>ovatory, 307; Mathematics 1 Pro- '39, presente<l a plan propeslng an fessot· Fox, Civil Engineering Bldg., 208; Mathematics 2, Professor a·II-college con~ert 'by an outstand- Fox, Ci·vil Engineering Bldg., 208;. Matb.ematics 2, Professor Burkett, ing artist. The proceeds frotn such Civil Engineering Bldg., 208; Mechanics (.soph), Mr. Fiedler, Electrical a concert w<>uld be turned over to Engineering Bldg., 'L6; Physics 2; P.rolessor Ro~ansky, Physics La;b- the St-udent Employment Bureau oratory, 202; Physics tl, Professor .Stu.der, Physics LabcH 1 atory, 202; • for the establisb.ment of work Psych0logy 11, Professor Ligon, North College, !0; Social .Studies 1, scholarships. Professot· Bronner, Bailey Hall, 201; Social Studies· 1, Professot· Doty, The plan is being investigated by Bailey Hall, 201; Social Studies 3:3, Professor Bronner, Bailey Hall,' the executive committee although 201; .social Studies 37, Pro!essor Bennett, Bailey Ha•ll, 201; social it is still in the tentative stage. Studtes 38, Mr. Emblem, Bailey Hall, 201. A plan pt·oviding for a ser.ies of (3:30-4:30) Chemistry 1, Professor 'Ellet·y, Chemistry Laboratory, 20-1; concerts was pl'oposed last year. Social Studies 2, Mr. Weiler, Bailey Hall, 202. This series was to have been spon- sered by the student tax fund but Tuesday, November 15 (10:20-11 :10) Psychology 1, P.rofess<>r Ligon, Nor.th Col'lege, 10. (1:30-2:30)-Social Studies 39, Professor Bennett, Bailey Hall, 202. Students Reporting for Mal{e-up !f'ests Must Present Slips Stamped . was voted down by the Student Council. The Executive Committee of the · Council will meet ·early next week to gi.ve this matter further consid· eration. With the Na.me of .l;he Dean Glee Club May Give Concert For Student Body Twining Discusses Work of Club ·1 In Chapel Talk Wednesday, Nov. 9-In an ad- dress before the student assembly, this morning, Rol'lin L. Twining,. '39, manager of the Union College Glee Club, endeavored to clarify some of the functions and the status of that organization. \This year there was an unusually large turn-out for the .glee club, and the Skidmore Council Head To.Speak in Assembly •In keeping with the custom of the past few years, Miss Jane Gray '39, president of the student government organiza- tion at Skidmore College, will address the daily assembly on T'.uesday, Nov. 15. The practice has been that the p1 esiden ts of :he respective students governments of Union and Skidmore have been ex- change speakers on the assem- oly programs of both institu- tions. Dl'ess Sllir.fs Expertly ·Done .American A·1 Laundsy 1030 B·nJ•r.ett St.-Just off Union ·PHONE 4·S16.B AtG,.LLO'S FLORAL SHOP roll, as it now stands, consists of I 93 men, approximately one-tenth of Rostaurant-'fall Room·Delleatessen the whole college population. I feel' ' G 0 L D- I s that the student body should !mow You'll Find the IDEAL CORSAGE some of the reasons why this body is so large and just what good the tax money going towards it is do- ing.\ Twining went on to discuss the selection of men for the out-of- town concerts. He suggested that the idea of giving a home con- ~ert for the student body, which Idea was feebly received several years ago, might be resumed in view of the increasing apprecia,tion on the campus of music. AFTER THE GAME- Stop in for a HOT CHOCOLATE and a SANDWICH at PEARSON'S I 08 Nott Terrace Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market OUR MOTTO \Qualify • Service Safisfacfion\ 598 B'way - For Better Values ALWAYS POPULAR FISH and CHIPS CLAMS on HALF SHELL CLAM STEW 96 Jay St. Phone 2-4487 FRI ED OYSTERS OYStER STEW STEAM ED CLAMS HOME MADE ICE CREAM and SODA SYRUPS a-t Brandhorst Pharmacy \ON THE CORNER\ UNION ST. & GILLESPIE Edw. H. Brandhorst, Reg. Phar, Leland E. BraJJ.dhorst, Reg. Phar . 100 M. P. H. FORD···$250.00 Wish to sell Deluxe 1934 green Ford Y-8 fhaeton with~ trunk, radio, heater, tonneau windshield, dual ratio rear axel, white sidewall tires, C. G • .carburetor and Purolator. Has been driven less Han 5.00() miles since complete overhaul including new engine, clutch, Ther- moid brakes, shock absorbers, king pins. and bushings, entire transmission, distributor and straigElt pipe muf- fler. Will finance sale and demonstrate any time. Reason for selling-have new race car. WILBUR. C. RICE. 3 Lowell Road, City Phone 4-6447 GET READY FOR THE ALL COLLEGE WEEKEND m ~ 1 i.~i::::!!:::mi::mm:::m::mmm:::m::m:::m:mmmm:m:m:m::::::m::::m::::!:::::::m:m::::m:::mm:::::::::;fij ONE SUY.l' and ONE TUXEDO CLEANED and PRESSED B::':: 93c: Ccdf for and Deliver \For Students Who Care\ &&G CLEANERS DYERS • 12 Elm St. Phone 3-1775 ,j HAVE YOUR CAR WINTERIZED tr'OLONIA~ ~--sso) ~DEALE~ CORNER VANVRANKEN & NOTT ST. COMPLETE LUBRICATION llA 'r\I'Et.·y PRESTONE 11 1-.i SERVICE ALCOHOL-49c: Per Gallon Special to College Sfudents TIRES ~- =~=-~==---~.d Si Bev lnvc: For !In+• To To1 (( .Sawye1 Bt·istol bul·n, Dedha1 more; tady; 1 S eym Bryon, Billing Skidmc Jean S erine lege; tady; Lois H Brundl chaper Mr. aJ !~nd M burgh nity is .urday with ~ estra p Delt~ guests chapte On Sa dance: An inf will cc weekex house : erick I John r The the M more School Conn.; School Sage; Sage; City; Coilegc tady; < Ruth l lyn A Wells, gueritE Mary Jeanm Bt ougl er, Sk dam; , Sage; Natali, Maxw• The Invitee their t W. G~ bara F O'Neil Troy; Ann · Merria Mary J HustoJ Dorotl ion VI Nissor. Smith ton; City; l Hope Gweni Chaj M1·. ar: and ] and N. MIS. I band Kap the fa party Bella Helen lis Sal man, Skidrr more; Sylvia Alban Levit< ley F man,. I Fo1 51 Co

ers Fox, an such ver to work ted by of year. spon- but tudent of the week sy Ill Ill ::: ::: Ill ::: !!! ::: ~n ::: . .JJj b.ar. 447 CE THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1938 Page Five Sixteen :Fraternities Invite ·Guests ,for Hous,e-.Parties Tomorrow Bevy of Beauties Invade Camp·us For Gridiron Ball !Interfraternity Council To Hold Its Dance Tonight in Gymnasium ( Continue>d irom Page 1) .Sawyer, Schenectady; Barb a r a B1·istol, New York City; Jean ·Cock- bul·n, Amsterdam; Bette Miller, Dedham, Mass.; Jane Reid, S·kJd- more; Isabel Dempster, Schenec- tady; Marion Notz, Menands; Jean Seymour, Skidmore; Genevieve Bryon, Toronto, Canada; Barbara BU!irrger, Skidmore; Ruth Steele, Skidmore; Mary Nealon, Alabama; Jean Summersgill, Skidmore; Cath- erine Kneigs, Ma11hattanvme Col- lege; Lela RockerfeHer, Scherrec- tady; Constance Rice, Slddmore; Lois Higgins, Skidmore, and Betty Brundges, New York City. The chaperones for the .party will be Mr. and Mrs. Archibald Wemple and Mrs. and Mrs. Beverly Vos- burgh of Schenectady. The frater- nity is holding a formal dance Sat- urday evening from 9 till 1 a. m. with Joe Belmont and his or<.h- estra providing the music. DELTA UPSILON Delta Upsilon will entertain its guests with a formal dinner in the chapter house on Friday evening. On Saturday there will be ,a tea dance following the Hamilton game. An informal dance in the evening will conclude thl: activities of the weekend. The chaperones for the house .party are Dr. and Mrs. Fred- erick L. Bronner and Mr. and Mt s. John N. Marcellus '34. The guests of Delta Upsilon are the Misses Ruth L. Jensen, Sltid- more College; Doris Roy, Juillard School; Patricia Everly, Westport, Conn.; Betty Bailey, The Erskine School; Kathryn Waters, Russell Sage; Ann Cavagna1 ro, Russell Sage; Helen Graves, New York City; Mary Crosby, St. Joseph's Coilege; Josephine Hunt, Schenec- tady; Charlotte Gardnel, Skidmore; Ruth E. Waite, Russell Sage; Eve· lyn Allen, Skidmore; Mary Lou Wells, New Brunswick, N.J.; Mar· guerite Fagley, Pittsfield. Mass.; Mary Peterson, Schenectady; Jeanne Saffer. Albany; Elsie Bt oughton, Schenectady; Jane Full- er, Skidmore; May Duane, Pots- dam; Jeannette Talmadge, Russell Sage; Ruth Wilson, Schenectady; Natalie Hall, Skidmore, and Jane Maxwell, Rochester. KAPPA ALPHA The Kappa Alpha Society have invited the following guests for their house dance: the Misses Alice W. Garrett, Baltimore, Md.; Bar- bara Potter, Smith College; Marion O'Neil, Brooklyn; Faith Hudson Troy; Lucy Tullock, Kar.sas City; Ann Whipple, Boston; Margaret Merriam, Mount Holyoke College; Mary Newton, Denver, Colo.; Nancy Huston, Sarah Lawrence College; Dorothea Merrit, Larchmont; Mar- ion Williams, Schenectady; Jean Nisson, Portland, Me.; Betty Clark, Smith College; Susan Cabot, Bos- ton; Dian Dilworth, New York City; Nancy Van Vleck, New York; Hope Knowles, Philadelphia, and Gwenith Drexel, Philadelphia. Chaperones for the affair will be: Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Hoadley, Mr. and Mrs. J. Gilbert Parlter, Mr. and Mrs. Edwin M. Hutchins, and Mrs. Rice Henyan. Don Rettalick's band will furnish the music. :K.Ai>:P A :Ntt Kappa Nu fraternity has invited the following guests for the house party this weekend: the Misses Bella Lashinsky, Albany State; Helen Levy, New York City; Phyl- lis Sandler, Skidmore; Gloria Blich- man, Skidmore; Beverly Blichman. Skidmore; Dorothy Goldberg. Skid- more; Jean Lewis., Smith College; Sylvia Weiss, Albany; Jean Bellin, Albany; Alice Jaffe, Troy; Sylvia Levitch; Eve Bialech, Albany; Shir- ley Frumhin, Albany; Ruth Free- man, Albany; Freda Shulman, Selie- BACK NUMBERS of ALL your Favorite MAGAZI'NES le, 3e, Se, 7e J Fortunes, EsqUIJ'es, Coronets Arts of All Kinds 50-XMAS CARDS-SOc: Also College Swing Records- I Oc Bock Number Magazines 627 State St. nectady; Sally Sharlotte, Troy;. Sealt-, Sa.ratega Springs, N. Y.; Kay 'Dz·· ~'St.· D all D t •t D. l\ Pyramid Club Dances Dorothy Handler, Schenectady; Schilling, Orange, N.J.; Madeline I'll• :C'I :C'Ta ernl. y .rro lC Evelyn Kohn, Schenectady; ..Ida Fagan, Herkimer, N. Y.; Virginia The Pyramid Club will hold its Schwartz, Schenectady; Esther Soper, Albany, N. Y.; Doro:hy Dea .. tu~ .. ons D'OO·tb, ail[ 'V,estoo·.nery annual fall daace Saturday evening Eingold, Schenectady; Esther Ger- Clarke, Rochester, N_ Y.; Lydia .1.' 4 •·~ ..L 1 1 • ~ L 1 '4 ft•om 9 to 1 p. m. in Hanna Hall to gis, Albany; Ann Magram, Schenec- Bond, ;Scheaectady. which all the Union College neu- tady. Mr. and Mrs. B. J. Naumoff The orchestra fOl' the house By :RiCHARD iiENYA.L'f ~·-----~-------~-- t·rals are invited. and Mr. and Mrs. B. P. Eisenstein dance Saturday night will be that \The curfew blythly chimes at ball' team), will be admitted gratis. Also immediately following the will be the chaperones. \Of BiU Dehey. three between the hours of ten and Union-Hamilton game a victrola KAPPA SIGMA. P'HI SIGMA KAPPA And as the baTd say. 'Damned be twelve. dance wHl be held in Hanna Hall The chaperones for the Kappa The chaperones for the Phi he' Gr-eensward, goalposts and other Frank Fleming and hb orchestra Sigma house dance Saturday night Sigma Kappa house dance Satur- Who through the game:s first pe- glm:ious gridiron garnishihgs will will provide th ernusic for the eve- wm be Mr. and Mvs. Thomas s. day night will ·be Mr. and Mrs. riod sleeps grace the gray old walls of the ning dance . Brown. HasH .F. T.ryon of Mt. Vernon, N.Y. Ancl ·into the blePchers meekly grim. gymnasium for the gala open- The chaperones ff'lr the later The guests will be the Misses The guests wiH be: the Misses creeps.\ ing of the Union's social season. dance are: Mr. and Mrs. William W . 'f d F i v· k I K s k · d Bob Clarl,, ~hairman of the dance' Newman, Mr. and Mr·s. Frank mm· ·re · ourn. er Schenectady· · rc Y \ove asen, ·l m.o r e ; Mal Hallett, with his twelve ter- Helen MuHer, Nutl~y, N. J.; vir: Peggy Peer, Skidmore; Betty za- rifle dispensers of timely tunes and .::ommittw, has announced that the·· Moore sr., Mr. and Mrs. Darius · · K' w tfi b · k\ Sk\d B tt M dance will be definitely a financial: Gallagher, and Mr. and Mrs. C. T. grma 1ep, es eld, N .. J·_; Mar- rls re, t more; e Y uller, two girls, Wi\l·l 1·nvade t·he Alumn 1 · · · · M K' success and that tickets at the l'llale. tOn K1ep, Skidmore Coll'ege.; Nancy · ount tsco; Marion Jones, Skid- Gymnasium tonight for the first R ·d Bl fi C t v B df d dOl•l' will cost four dollars. et , oom eld, N. L; Gladys more; ons ance · · ra or ' Co- .fall .fraternity frolic in the history Fra · ds B \d c I R th K' s h t d Hallett's rhythm and brass sec-: n en, r1 'geport, onn.; Betty Ioes; u Ing, c enec a y; of Union CoHege In honor of the P d Sk 'd M I · L th· Sk\d tions as well as !:\.is numerous nov-: e ersen, I more; Nimiam See- . ary · \omse a· am, 1 more; \Gl'idiron Ball,\ as the second in- l{a Q V 'll L I K h Ma M s!\r·Je\ h v elties have been acclaimed wide!,-: mp, ueens l age, ' . · ·.; · at - ry u 1 lg ' assal'. terfraternity dance is called, the J · st· w t o N in the newspapers of the varrous' erme mson, es · · range, · . J.; PSI UPSILON gymnasium will be appropriately · Barbara Ferrel, Albanv State Col- ft d 'th f b towns in which he has visited. The Psi Upsilon fraternity wiH gure Wl · oot all festoons de- Trio to Play lege; Betty Morley,. Skidmore; ha. ve as .its weekend guests the signed to Instill in the 300 odd Jea Cl k N k St t T h Hank Clay's refusal to repeat his ' n ar • ewar -a· e · eac - Misses MarY Gar n i e r, Boston, prom trotters a proper atmosphere Roosevelt speech, because uf the ers' Co !<lege; Evelyn GnodeHe, Sche- Mass.·, Emily Strong, New Ro- for the classic conflict against the nect d B tt Sl ,, Sl · d overwhelming Republican majori- a y; e Y om,.er, n more; chelle; Betty Burbank, Edgewood CJ.i.ntonites tomorrow. · Norma Brow, Bloomfield, N. J.; p k tiel' throughout the neighboring, B ar ; Ann Sanford, Skidmore; Js Popul11.r Leader distl'icts will place the we1'ght of· · arbara Brett, Br,Jmont, Mass., and J d E M · ean A ams, dgewood Park; Mar- Mal Hallett, wuose programs of intermission entertainment on Mal rs. William Potts, Bloomfield, · · s N. J·. Jane cott, Skidmore; Frances perpetually prominent popular pre- Hallett's trio which itself has Charles Trudeau's band will fur- Hurley, Elmira; Mary- E. O'Han- ludes have amazed dancers at many reached fame. . 1 h . ion, Mount Holyoke College; Bar- .of the most important ballrooms The glamorous conglomer·at 1 'on nt8 1 t. e musre for the house dance .. b . ara Walker, Bennington College; and thc·aters ast uf the Pacific of glorious gals from Glens Falls LAMEDA CHI ALPHA Elizabeth Deering, Auburn; Rosa- shows promise of retaining hi~ to G-reenville Junction <N.D.) will Guestd fot· the weekend party at mond Brister, Auburn; Mary Me-. favor among college students dur- art ive sometime Friday afternoon the Lambda Chi Alpha house will Land, Scarsdale; Clail·E McCarthy, ing his slay at Union. through the courtesy of the Ford be: the Misses Marjorie Apkes, Lowell, Mass.; Betty Fairburn, The- eleven elegant establishers Motor Company and the New York, Schenectady; Ruth Schade, Albany; Lowell, Mass.; Kay Heater, Wells of educational athletics, c the foot- Central System. Eleanor Denton, S chen e c tad y; College; Joan Beckett, Mount Holy-. ____________________ ....:_ __________ _ Catherine Zeh, Schenectady; Vir- oke College; Ann Perdue, Sarah Mich; Peggy Borland, Garden City, ginia Sawyer, Albany; Ruth Lind- Lawrence College; Anne Wolfe, L. I.; Nancy Bogle, Poughkeepsie, eay, Cleveland, Ohio; Barba1·a WH White Plains; Susan Johnston, N. Y.; Betty Stewart, New York THETA DELTA CID son, Schenectady; Winifred Line- Buffalo; Helen Disbrow, Cornell; City. kay, Western Reserve Univ~rsity; Eleanor Chapel, Elmira; Ann Flem- Margaret McFarlane, W11itehall; ing, Mount Holyoke College; Eliza- Virginia Guynes, Erie, Fa.; Jean beth Collard, Manhassett, L. I.; Mil- Wilson, Schenectady; Barbara Bar- dred Harr, South Orange, N. J.; The Theta Delta Chi fraternity has invited as their weekend guests the Misses Natalie Hatch, Skid- more; Jean Franks, Vassar; Ar- lene Mitchell, Skidmore, Lillian Travis, Vassar; Jean King, New York City; Anna May Carey, Vas- sar; Ruth Waterhouse, Norwich, Conn.; Melva Wiedeman, Cornell; Betty Siebert, Rochester; Virginia Wheeler, St. Rose College; Gloria Moon, Skidmore; Frances Wheel- er, Westfield; Joyce Holden, Mont- real; Jane Langley, Bronxville; Jean Cooper, Skaneateles; 'Shirley Van Valkenburg, State College; Betty Rice, Skidmore; Anne Nar- dini, Schenectady; Jean Singleton, Albany State College. nard, Albany, and Henrietta Maney, Margaret Newell, Smith College, Schenectady. Mr. and Mrs. Reimer and Marion Bush, Burnt Hills. Webb and Mr. and Mrs. Edv•ard The chaperones for the week- Christiansen will be the chd·perones. end will be Mr. and Mrs. Thomas PHI DEL'l'A THETA Allen of New York City and Mr. Weekend guests of Phi Delta and Mrs. Arthur W. Eendrickson Theta fraternity will be: the Misses of New York City. There will be Alta Harding, Niagara Fails; Joan a formal dance on Saturday eve- Lynch, Lowville, N. Y.; Eloise ning at which Dean and Mrs. Mead, Amityville, N. Y.; Patricia Chat\les F. F. Garis and Mr. and White, Ballston Spa; Eleanor Pratt, Mrs. Frederic A. Wyatt will also Scotia; Margaret Camadine, Sche- act as chaperones. At the house nectady; Janice Harding, Niagara dance Saturday night Lew Rider Falls; Beatrice Mead, Amityville; and his orchestra will furnish the SIGMA CHl Mildred Hilderbrand, Scotia; Linda music. Bock, Schenectady, Kay Smith, Elizabethtown, N. Y.; Dorothy Hampel, Schenectady; Betty Cook, Guests of Sigma Chi for the weeltend will be the Misses Bar- b:o~ra Woodland, Watertown, Mass.; Dorothy Meyers, Schenectady; Ger- trude Quinn, Troy; Ruth Gordon, Schenectady; Rita Scanlon, Sche- nectady; Charlotte Ostrander, Sche- nectady, Betty Sa.wdy, Albany; Ma- J'ie Jones, Schenectady; Lois Clarke, Westport, Conn.; Eleanor Haris, Schenectady; Car me ! O'Connor, Schenectady; Betty Foxenberg, Utica. Chazy, N. Y.; Barbara Stratton, Long Island, and Doris Hanson, Se>a Cliff, L. I. The chaperones will be Mr. and Mrs. G. Torr.er Wuy and Mrs. S. A. Fay. PHI GAM~IA DELTA The chaperones at the Phi Gamma Delta house dance will be Dr. and Mrs. Vernon O'Rourlte, Dr. and Mrs. Walter Langsam, Dr. Joseph Doty and Mr. and Mrs. SIGMA PHI Mr. and Mrs. Vladamir Rojansky and Mr. and Mrs. Egbert Bacon- will act as chaperones over the weekend. Campus Weather Prophets Predict Fair Weekend Professor E d w a r d S. C. Smith, it was learned today after an inquiry by The Con- cordiensis. looks for warmer and unsettled weather for the ne:xt two days. Professor Smith explained that the wind has been from the southeast and the ba1·ometer, at the time of the interview, was rising. These facts should bring a spell of unsettled weather, but whether or not it would change before Saturday afternoon, Professor Smith refused to say. Friday, however, should be generally fair and warmer followed Saturday or Sunday by unset- tled conditions. On the other hand Tom Ge>uld, venerable campus gen- darme, was more dogmatic and positive about his weather pre- diction when he said that it would be \0. K. and fine.\ .. -----0--- Composite Records Varsity Football-Won, 2. Tied 1. LGst, 3. Points scored, 94. Oppon- ents scored·, 83. Varsity Cross-country- Won, 5. Lost, 1. Points sco1·ecl, 117. Oppon- ents scored, 213. <Season com- pleted.) Freshman Football -. Won, 3. Lost, 1. Points scored, 38. Oppon- ents scored, 24. 1 Season com- pleted.) Freshman Cross-country - Won, 1. Lost, 1. Points scored, 52. Op- ponents scored, 58. 1 Season com- ·pleted.l -· --0--- NOTICES There will be a meeting of the freshman class on Monday, Nov. 14, at 10 o'clock in the Mounte- banks Theatre. Attendance of all freshmen is required. A meeting of the Sophomore class will be held in the Old Chapel at 10 o'cloclt Monday morning. YOUR GIRL will LIKE our CORSAGES ... RUSCITTO FLORAL SHOP 100 Jay St. Phone 4-2847 Eugene Hotchkiss. The guests of the fraternity will be the Mis~es Betty Barton, Platts- burg, N. Y.; Cee Jesse, W&tertown, N. Y.; Janet Jones, New London, Conn.; Kay McGraU, Albany, N.Y.; Betty Bond, Schenectady; Peggy Hardy, New London, Conn.; Betty Bovell, Bridgeport, Conn.; Peggy Bolt, Schenectady; Marion Sovik, Johnstown, N. Y.; Shirley Wen- dell, Altamont, N. J.; Helen Math- ewson, Westport Conn.; Lois Cot- ton, Granby, Conn.; Elinc:>r Mor- gan, Poughkeepsie, N. Y.; Marjorie Denman, Albany, N. Y_; Marion Loucey, Boston, Mass.; Jeanne The guests of Sigma. Phi will be the Misses Eleanor Haselton, West Orange, N. J.; Lynn Wolfe, Lime, N. H.; Mary Alicia Leffingwell, Watkins Glen, N. Y.; Angelica Calvo, New York City; Priscilla Janney, Bryn Mawr, Pa.; Marjorie Gardiner, Hanover, N. H.; Virginia Craft, Charleston, W. Va.; Mary Stiefvater, Schenectady; Janet Rus- oell, Albany; Janet Sicard, Hollins, Va.; Margaret Hammond, Red Bank, N. J.; J'!net A~sU!l, Boston, Mass.; Gerry Robinson, Boston, Mass.; Constance Hoyt. New York City; Charlotte Ochs, Kalamazoo, LAST DOWN --- The UNION COLLEGE BOOK STORE Has for your date • FELT NOVELTIES • COLLEGE SEAL JEWELRY also Complete Line of Christmas Cards AND ONE PLACE TO THE VAN ~CURLER TAP RO:QM GO

Page Six THE GONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1938 Hamilton and Union Co-Captains m X-Country for :t939 Season I First Frosh Drill Jn '42 .Basketball Draws 30 M:en Union HJJ'\ Is Rose-Bowl Bound; .only the Invitation Is L,acking Wind Up Footba U Seasons Tomorrow At Alexander Field Five Dutchmen in Final Intercollegiate Game Of Their College Careers Six-Game Schedule Art Lawrence Appointed As New Frosh Court Coach; Nitchman to Assist Him Thursday, Nov. 10-Thirty can- didates reported to Coaches Art Lawr,ence and Nels Nitchman as the first freshman .basketball drill . got .underway today. The yearlings started drill work in fundamentals immediately. Ac- cording to Coach Lawrence, the ' squad will be cut d0wn to appr0xi- mately 14 men after the fi.rst .few weeks of practice. He wHl 'be as- sisted dUl'ing this period by Var- sity Coach Nitchman. Six-Game Schedule The freshmen will face an un- ~·----~--~------------- .The ~atest dispatch fro~ the na- , • six oints .to han's mtercoll'e\'tate grtduon war Quakei s lost out by P . front tells us that Union College's Michigan, cutting Unl,on's supe•:wr- CU·rrent football eleven is Rose- ity over the Wolvermes ~o erght Bowl pound this winter-only the points. Union became 22 pomts :bet- official announcement is necessary. tet than Il~in~is when the latt~r And' why not? To date, Union's bowed to Mtchtg~n, _14 to o, Notre squad is fat· superior on a point Ba_me defea.ted lllmolS by only e;ght ba,is to the supposedly great teams pomts, leavmg the a::rne~ 14 pOl_nts of Pittsburgh Notre Dame and .better than the Ftghtm? lnsh. even Texas Cht·istian. Notre Dame was. seven pomts ~et- ter than Carnegie Tech, so Union Here's the lat~:st dope, and then was 21 ,points ahead of the Ram- see if you d'o not agree: bUng Wrecks. Tech upset Pitt by Union tied Vermont which, in tum, had lost to Rutgers by on'ly one point. Rutgers took the rneas- m e of Prineeto n, 20 to 18, .giving Union a one-point advantage ·over .the Tigers. Princeton upset Penn, 13 to 0, so we find Union now 14 points better than Penn. The Does Outstanding }ob 10 points, putting Union 31 points ahead of the Panthers. Both Pitt and Texas Christian ·had a 22-point margin of victory over Temple, f.ina]l!y leaving the Dutchmen nine points better than T. C. U., the foremost team in the country today. California, here we come. lntramurals l''ou;:-Shooting Contest !Continued ft·orn Page 1) tonians ]1ave been \Vorking on ::-ev- pt·al new plays, de:;igned particu- lally for to;,lQrrow·~ game. That t-epot·t whi<h jcscrves most atten- tion i~ thP rumor th:H Captain Marty Hilfinger, who missed the Havetford game because of an at- tack of grippe, has been confined to the· Hamilton infirmary, render- ing him unavailable. However, the tendenq hen•ab<.uts has been to t·egard : hP itPm as the usual pt·e- game propaganda e-manating fr·om the opposition. Paul Santol'O, left and Frank Melf'wicz, right usually hard six-game schedule this season, opening against Troy High · School here on January 7. On Jan- uary 14, they play Ment Pleasant High School of Schenectady, away. Januar-y 21 is an open date to be filled later. Nott Ter!'ace High No member of the varsity ·or ·freshman baslietball squads, or any receiver of Block \U\ or .. aUa\' awards will be eligible to compete. The competition wi.Jl start Monda)'· Nuv. 14, and continue through TueE- day, Dec. 20. The contestant may attempt his 25 free throws at any time between 10:30 a. m. and 1:30 p_ m. each day. A group must have at least 10 men competing to gain its entrance points. However, a <$> ----·--------·-- Sisson Rt>JJlacPs Hilfingf>r Should Hil!ingei be missing fr·om the HaMilton lit•l'llp, Coach Art Wmt~:r>< will he lorred to revamp !1i~ lineup, sending B1uce Si$son, who ha\ bet·n sul::stituting for Hil- tin~er at end. to his rP[\'Ular half- bucl> po~t and tilling in thP end :!,\ap v.tith a ~Pphomol'( 1 Six lPtter- IlH'n, foUl' In ~ 1H• f111 \\\HI~ri WRJ1 [l nd two in tlce b~Pkfil'ld. ha\'t' bN·n :~p· pt'al ir,g t t·~ulc•dy in tl.t· f'ontU~t'll­ Ltl litll'UJ• Poor Rt>sei\\'<\S fot• Both Both t\ams find themselves equal in om· department at le~st. Neither· is ve1y st.roag :n the supply of good t escrve matet·ial on hand. DOUW F. BEEKMAN Gasoline - Brake Service U. S. Tires - Motor Tune-up Exides - Lubrication Let Us Prepare Your Car for Winter 601 UNION ST. Open Until II P. M. The ELITE TAILOR 516 Union Street TUXEDOS FOR RENT Expert Tailoring Pleasant Valley Meat Market • Home of Sunshine Meat Products • 586·592 Broadway PHONE 4-3181·2·3·4 R / for building health in mind and body. Amsterdam Dairy MILK 2 glasses before retiring Repeat Daily Phone 6-2351 for Daily Delivei'Y Wednesday, Nnv. 9--Paul San- tot·o, '41, and Franlt Melewicz, '40, were elected co-captains of the Hl39 varsity cross-country team at '\ meeting of this yea1· s lettermen today, .succeeding Captain Ed Wells. '39. Bo'h Santoro and Melewicz live in f-l<•hPnPrtarly dnd havP t·ec<ently cnmplf'!Pd thPil' sPcond yf'ar of , ,·,u,ity compPtition. Rnntm:o is af- ~ Jiliatn! with l.nrnbda Cht Alpha I ft at<-t·ntt v. :\II'!Pwirz I\ a NPutral I ::lantm ~ hol·Js the local 3.6-mile course t<-cm·d for freshmen, set m 1c;36. Though ineligible for road meets tl1i~ season, he was a con- sis:ently high scorer in the four home contests in which he par- ticipated. Melewicz ran in every LA TEST RECORDS in stock daily RCA-Victor Combinations CASSEDY PIANO CO. 460 State St. Near Proctors MAKE YOUR MEETING PLACE at REUTER'S BOWLING A.CADEMY 148 Clinton St. DOUW F. BEEKMAN Gasoline U. S. Tires Ex ides - Brake Service Motor Tune-up Lubrication Let Us Prepare Your Car for Winter 601 UNION ST. Open Until II P.M. For that midnight snack! visit The FARM Restaurants 104 and 501 STATE ST. For Your Flowers for the Gridiron Ball see: STAN BECKER, 3 N. S. N. C. or Call 4-5208 Gardenias Roses .. Orchids .. Corsage Prices $1.00 $1.50 1.00 1.25 3.00 $2.00 1.50 Other Flowers Reasonably Pricecl FRANK R. GALLO, Florist Cor-. JAY and LIBEitTY ST. mPet this year and also placed in high position. School will play here on Febtuary 4. On February 11 and 18, t•espec- tively, the yearlings face Albany Academy and the R. P. I. Frosh, both games being played on thei1· rival~' cuurts \\'ill Stress }'mtdamt>ntais As soon as t·ile squad is pared I to' al of the 15 highest succeti:sfui I membe1s of _ag~__\P \'i_ll count. down to pPrmanent size. Coach <·outsl' in N<'W Yurk, and placed Lawrence will devote practically ~econd against R. P. I. at Troy. all his time to the teaching of the in T~:rsi~;-c~ 1 p;:~n~n ht~':e p!~fa:~~. game's fundamentals and of the are expected to be competing again system of basketball played at Both men were included ·in a s:x-man tie for first ,place in the Colgate meet on Sept. 30. They also were tied for first in both the Ver- mont and Middlebury encounters which followt•d. Santoto placed M'conti, clo~ely followed by Mele- wicz. in the mel'! with 'A'illiams. :.\lelewict: won the C. C. N. Y. run uvtei the 5-mile \'an Cortland Park spirit have been welcome featu1e:; dUiing many games. Bob, who i.s the president of the this spring. Union. Those men who reported were: · sophomore class, played freshman lacrosse last year instead of go- ing out for yearling football. At Poly P1ep in Brooklyn, where he prepared for his college career, he was a member of the football Play in Tennis Tournament Postponed Until Spring Further play in the intra- mural tennis tournament has been postponed until spring due to the inability to keep the the courts in satisfactory shape this late in the year. It will be concluded in the spring. CoS. MOODY OPTOMETRIST Eyes Examined, Glasses Fitted 115 B'way Telephone 6-5747 Three Doors from State St. When Eating Do Not Forget MODERN DINER Cor. Veeder Ave. & State FREIHOFERS BREAD :-: CAKE :-: ROLLS Daily Delivery Direct to Your Home TEL 6-4224 PEOPLE•s Food Market FINE FOODS and GROCERIES 1291 Rugby Rd. THE GARNET TAILOR For All PRESSING CLEANING REPAIRING 605 Liberty St. Phone 4-0 122 For Deluxe Coaches call G. A. Welcome &San 171 I Union Street PHONE 4-9444 Don Morris, Robert Reynolds, Rob- ert Newton, Ed Walker, Douglass Hasl>rou('k, Jack Butler, Paul San- tee, William Champlin, Sherry Bil- lick, Sherry Wait, Mason Kronick, Stewart Goldblatt, Robert Muther and Ned Reilly. Also, Ed Wantuch, Dave Clowe, Phil Landry, Charles Clowe, Madi- son Mitchell, George Coley, Wil- liam Stone, Jewell Horning, Wil- liam Hill, Ben Jakubowski., John Ehrcke, William Daly, Joseph Ge- nava, Bill Garcia, and George An- derson. --·-a--- Intramural Totals To Date <Including only Touch Football, Track Meet and Football Field Meet Tournaments.) Phi Gamma Delta ......... 267.034 Psi UIJSilon ................ 221.187 Kappa Sigma . . . . . . . . . . . . . 216.952 Beta. Theta Pi . . . . . . . . . . . . . 203.457 Phi Delta Theta . . . . . . . . . . . 203.357 Delta Upsilon . . . . . . . . . . . . . 203.300 Chi Psi .. .. . .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. 183.920 Kappa Nu ................. 173.936 Lam.bda Chi Alplta ........ 160.000 Delta Phi .. ._ .. • .. . .. .. . . . 148. 7'72 Phi Sigma Delta . . . . . . . . . . . 145.600 North College . . . . . . . . . . . . . 135.340 Kappa Alpha . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 133.221 Neutrals ................... 122.374 Delta Chi .......... __ . . .. .. 122.034 Sigma Phi .... __ .. . . . .. . .. 109.068 Tbeta. Delta Ohi •.. _ .. _ . . . . 93.300 Sigma Chi . . . . . . . .. . .. . .. .. 68.602 Alpha Delta Phi . . • . . . . . . . 52.500 South College .. _ . . . . . . . . . . 8.136 EMPIRE THE STUDENTS LAUifDRY PHONE 4·6514 301 Green St. BOB MOLLOY, Center Bob Molloy, '41, is the dream boy. He has done what is in the mind of almost every American boy who has a hankering towards football. Bob, without any previous inter- collegiate experience, reported this September for va~·sity football. Now he is regular center. Hardly no- ticed from the stands, Eob has been one of the mainstays both of the Union attack and defense. Backing up the line, he has shown remarkable fight throughout the season. His hard tackling and high squad, but was not stellar attrac- tion by any means. After Jimmy Mulcare injured his hand in scrimmage, Bob moved up to second team center, and, as such, saw action in the Trinity game. He played· inspiring: ball, roving all over the field, including the Trinity backfield, in a desperate effort to regene!ate a lost cause. He so impressed .Coach Nitchman that he gained a starting berth, yet to lose it. His 160 pounds would seem insufficient to the casual ob- .server; the coaching staff seems to think differently. FOOT\' B..ALLl.JHOO We were thinking of declaring a holiday this week, so that our five honorable prognosticators would be at peace with one another at least once during the football season. But the very insistent negative reply which I received from the first mastermind approached kind of told me not to pop the question to the other four. Well, we can't blame the boys anyway, especially Coach \Nels\ Nitchman and Ed. Chief Fred Hequem- bourg, both <Jf whom are leading the parade. Tied each at 33 out of 49 forecasts, Hequembourg feels that he can overtake the head football coach by late Saturday afternoon, and proudly point out to his female ~escort at his fraternity dance on Saturday night that he is undisputed leader of the parade, even superior in predictmg ability to a football mentor. Coach Nitchman, on the other hand would like to return home tomorrow night and say to Mrs. Nitchman: \Such audacity. Hequembourg thinking he could beat me at my own game.\ Meanwhile, \Ott\ Lawrence is bearing up well in second place \Vlth 32, followed by Sports Ed. Jerry Smith with 30 and \Duke\ Nelson with 25 out of 47. California-Oregon. <No chances here. Everyone on California. Want to be sure the Bears' wrath is not incurred in case Union goes west to play in the Rose Bowl.) Columbia-Navy. <A moot question. \Nels\ alone picks the Lions.) Pittsburgh-Nebraska, <Pitt still Ls the favorite hereabouts.) Princeton-Yale. <Come on Yale.) - Syracuse-Duke. <They're all stringing along with Duke.) Northwestern,Michigan. tSuch harmony we never expected, Sticking together again, this time on Northwestern.) Notre Dame-Minnesota. (Difference of opinion at last. \Ott\ and \'Duke\ like Minnesota.) Cornell-Dartmouth. <A tossup. Fred wHJ be tripping the light fantastic with a Cornellian, and he had better beware that he doesn't actually slip in the process, because he's picked Dartmouth along with \'NeLs\ and Jerry.) Lower Fuel Costs with 'blue coal' Try John Barcley Service lntramurals Bowling Tourney Flour, Feed, Seeds, Fertilizer, Coke, Fuel Oil HIRAM J. McKAIN CO. 306-314 Union St. Phone 4-4448 The schedule for the bowling tourney will be published in Tues• day's issue of the Ooncordiensis. All teams are requested to be pmmpt in starting their matches. Baslietball 'l'ourney 633 State St. Entries for the Intramural Bas- 226 Nott Ter. PHONE ketball !ournament must be in the intramural box not latt•r than next 204 Union St. Thursday, Nov. 17. The teams are 1009 Chrisler 6 • 3456 . requested to submit a roster of the ~~~;;;;~A~~;;;;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;;;;;;;;~;;;;~ players expected to be used con- fr ve. sistently. We Cater to Union Students and Their Guests JAMES REST AU RANT 426 State Sf. GUERRA PHARMACY DRUGS, PRESpRil'TIONS, SUNDRmS WE SERVE SANDWICJHES AND LIGHT LUNCHES UNION COLLEGE STATIONERY 29c 600 Union St. oor. Barrett Phone 2-!!419 BELLINGER PAINT CO. Arthur Trigg, Prop, Pa!nts, Oils, Varnishes, Gla.ss, Brushes and Wall Paper 126 BROADWAY DeWITT'S LUNCH ROOM and TAP ROOM We Serve Good Food for Good Health ll8-120 iJay St. Opp. New City Hall

.to peri<Jr- eight latter Notre eight points Irish. ts bet- Union Ram- itt by points Pitt 2-point n nine the or or any .. aUa\ TueE- may at any 1:30 have gain a nt. of the of go- At he he attrac- his up as Trinity g: ball, eluding cause. tchman berth, would ob- seems five least reply told me boys he can proudly night would \Such :game., 32, with 25 Want west to tt\ and slip and bowling n Tues• to be Bas- in the next are r of the con- co. GJ.a.ss. per THE GONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1938 Pa:ge Seven HAMILTON UNION vs. HAMILTON HAMILTON P~obable Starting Lineups No. Players Position Players No. 80 tBothwell, '41 ......... LER. . . . . . . . . \'Sisson '40 39 73 \\Kluge, '40 .......... LTR ....... \'Gardner '40 26 7 7 .y, Irish, ' 39 or 74 \'Lynn '40 ........... LGR .......... Gould, '39 45 57 Molloy, '41 . . . . . . . . .. C. . . . . . . . . Chappel, '40 22 58 \'Krull '40 ........... RGL. ....... \\Salmela, '40 41 71' \'Baker '40 . . . . .. , .... RTL. . . . . . . . Fancher, '39 2 5 61 \'Lewis '39 ........... R'EL. . \\Capt. Hilfinger, '39 2 3 62 ·Y.Ama.zon, '39, Capt. ..... QB ......... \'Towner '39 16 58 \'Thomas '39 or 8 4 \'Brockmyer '40 . . . . . . LH R. . . . . . . . Williams, '4 1 1 2 53 \'Patrie '40 .......... RHL. ....... Petronio,'41 17 83 ·'~~Hammerstrom, '4., .•.. FB ........ \'Erickson '39 44 If· Varsity Letterman; i' Freshman Numerals. ONE OF POSSIBLE HAMILTON TEAM COMBINATIONS TOMOROW CAPT. MARTY HILFINGER, E. REMIS SPRUCE UP for the WEEKEND at the Acme Barber Shop Where Service Is a Pleasure PHONE 4-4525 409 Union St. Schenectady, N. Y. Schenectady's Leading Custom Tailor, offers Suits, Top Coats and O'Coats at $40 and up, made to your personal measurements on the premises. ANTHONY BUSINO EXCLUSIVE T All.OR Above Nott Terrace 725 State St. OFFICIAL GARNET PHOTOGRAPHER The WHITE STUDIO 215 STATE STREET Fine Photography for 38 Years ALLING RUBBER CO. 258 STATE STREET OUTFITTERS for BASKETBALL TEAMS BASKETBALL SUPPLIES SOCKERBALL, BOXING and ALL SPORTS EQUIPMENT Schenectady Engraving Co. 147 JAY ST. ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCO~DIENSIS PETRONIO TOWN iclt ERICRSON THOMAS HOLE PLATT CHAPPELl. SALM.ELA GARDNER Gridiron Schedules Union/s Opponents UNION COLLEGE Schenectady S~pt. 2·1 •Colby ~o.neelled Oct, I i'riulty 1: •. 13 0 .. lU Oct. 8 Swltl'tllmorc 1: .. 15 0 .. 18 Oct. 15 *VDrntilllt U.. 7 0. . 7 O~t. 22 R. P. I. U .. 26 0 .. 13 Oct. 20 •Willlams U •. 6 0 .. 13 Nov. o Roeltestot• '(; .. 27 O .. !U Nov. 12 *Hamilton U .... 0 .... :f: * * COLBY COLLEGE Waterville, Me. St•pt, 2J Union Oct. I *Tufts Oct. ~ Vermont Oct, 15 N, HBillJ)SI!ire Oct. 22 *Bowdoin Ot•t. 29 i\Iaine :'>lov. 5 'llll<l<Ilebury .. .. * cancelled •C .. 23 0 .. () c .. 6 o .. !) c .. 6 o .. () C .. 18 0 .. 2~ C .. 19 0 •. 14 c .. 3~ o .. 21 TRINITY COLLEGE R. P. I. Troy tHt. 1 •nam.llton R. .14 Oct. S RoeJtester R .. 0 Oct. 15 *D'klyn College E .. 0 Oct. 22 *Ullion R .• 13 0!'1. 29 Coast Guard R .. 7 .:-.<ov- 5 Woi·cester R .• 7 Nov. 12 *lllass. State E .... .. * * WILLIAMS COLLEGE Williamstown, Mass. Sept_ 24 •Jii<ldlebnry W .. IS Hartford, Conn. ClLltcelle<l Oet. 1 Princeton \1-V .• 0 · Sept, 24 Vermont Oct. 1 •union Oct. 8 '\Vorccs tor oct. 15 no bal't T .. 19 o .. 13 Oct. S •Norwich w .. HI i'. . G o .. 12 Oct. 15 nowdoln \V •• 0 T •• G 0 •. 6 ·Ot•l... 22 *1'uits W .• 6 Oet.. 22 .(<Coast Guard Oct. 2S W~sleyan :\ov. 5 <=AmlU'I'St T .. 26 o .. 0 Oct. ~9 Union W .. lS T .. G o .. 7 Nov. 5 *Wesleyan w .. 7 '1' •. o o .. 19 Nov. 12 Amherst 'W .... * .. * SWARTHMORE COLLEGE SwarthinOre, Pa. oct~ s ~u~li«>J! R. -l~ oct. 15 American U. s .. H Oct. 22 \Oberlin s .. 0 Oct. 29 •Hamilton S .. 21 Nuv. 12 St. Johns S •••. Nov. 19 *Hartwick S .... * * • 0 .. 15 0 •. G 0 .. 14 0 .. G o ... . o ... . .. .. . U. of ROCHESTER. Rochester Oct. 1 *0 !)el'lin ll .. 6 Oct. H •n. P. r. It .. H O~t.. 15 Amher8t :n. .. 6 Ort. ~2 Hamilton ll. .. I '7 Ort. Z9 •Hobart :n. .. 0 .Nov. 5 *Union lt .. 13 :!'iov. 12 Wesleyan ll. .... * • • o .. 0 O .. S9. o .. 6 O .. H 0 .. G o .. 6 0 .. 13 o .... 0 .. G 0 .. u 0 .. 41 0 .. 0 0 . .40 o .. 27 o .... U. of VERMONT HAMILTON COLLEGE Burlington, Vt. Sept. 24 *i'rlnlty Oct. 1 Rutgers Oct. 8 *Coll.Jy Oct. 15 Union Oct. 22 '' N. J!ampsltlre oc~ 20 *:8orwic.Jt X(n·. li St. Lawrence · )luv. 12 ~Ild<llebury eancelled V .. H 0 .. 15 V .. 9 0 .. G v .. 7 0 .. i V .. 20 0 .. 7 V .. 20 0 .. G v .. !2 () .. 0 v .... o .... Clinton Oct. 1 R. P. I, II ... ll Oot. 8 *Hobart II .. 13 Oct. 16 Oberlin 11.. 6 Oct. 22 *RMilester 11 .. o Oct. 29 Swarthmor~ H .. G Nov. 5 •Haverford II .. 7 Nov. 12 Union H •.•. * Denote Home Games Men of Union: • Bring your charming ladies to Hale House for a snack ( 15c to 35c) or midnight supper of steak or chops (with beverage 50c). • We shall be open I 0 to 3 A. M. tonight. HALE HOUSE N. W. CEASE, Mana9er HILFINGEH. :I ,, i I I I • I ·I :! BEAT HAMILTON and CELEBRATE COLLEGE INN Where Good Food and Drinks Reign Cor. VAN VRANKEN AVE. and HATTIE SL FILL UP ON GAS Before and After the Game SCOTTY'S SUPER SERVICE GAS OIL LUBRICATION Radios - Batteries • Tires - Accessories Cor. NOTT TERRACE and LIBERTY ST. DALEY•s 414 State St. Where UNION Goes for Goocl Food and Drinks BOOTH and COUNTER SERVICE Clark Witbeck Co. QUALITY HARDWARE Since 1870 416-418 STATE ST. PHONES 4 \ 4161 4-4162 ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES MAZDA LAMPS STAPLES WAX GAZETTE PRESS PRINTERS

Page Eight First THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY,. NOVEMBER 11, l93S Football Game Described by Members of Team OALENUAR Today George Hart, '39 Elected Member Of Idol Board \Continued from Pagel) <$~------ centre were cailled upon to wheel two games ended ·in Union's fa.vol'; I Concordiensis--1890 .the ball to Clu.te ;got behind the 10:00 p. rn, - Interfl·aternlty Ball, Mal Hallett and his Or• cllestl'a, Gymnasium, 10 p. m. to 3 a. rn. out of the line and can·y the ball but Hamilton won the finale. The first of the New YorJt r;ltat€ latter and pusb.ed him right From the Hamilton point of v·iew, InteicoHegiate League football· tht·ough the H=ilton rushers and 7:00 p.m.-New Yot·k State As- sociation. ot Deans t..;onfer- ence, lJang_uet at Hotel Van Curler. Garis Makes Report Dean Reports Purchase which he, as quarterback, would hand them, The team never ried more than 5 substitutes. car- Of Typewriters and Stand~ For Publications Office Georg~ Hart, '39, of VVhite Plains was elected. to the senior staff of the Idol at a meeting of lhe Pub- lications Hoard Wednesday after- noon in Dean Garis' office. He was recommended for the position by Lon Barringer, editor of the mag.- azine. Other busines.s brought before thP board included a report by Dean Garis declaring that the bud- get appropriation of $500 fol' last year harl been spc11t for new type- writers and typewriter siand.s for th~ publications office. ·Certam im- provemt:nts in the lighting in this office were also made. Mr. Van Valkenbul'gh, also corr:- mentin;; on the speed of the Union style of play, .says •·we won because we were all fl'iendly loyal and played th'\ fa:;lest game I have ·ever seen, and I played against Yale and Princeton in their best yea1·s. We not only ·moved, .but we 'ran 'em ragged.' If Coons & Clute were on side; the ball was :passed to whom-. soever else was regardless, and it was understood that somebody or· all had to be--we tired \em out, rattled them. We we1e meat of us ex-farmers and could stand the .gaff.\ Dean Garis l~eports Dean Garis also reported that the board had received $31.35 from the Student Service Bureau as theil :;hare of one-quarter of the profits from the college blotter. A similar arrangement has been made with the Student Service Bureau this year. .A bit of Union skullduggery is me11tioned by Mr. Van Valken- bul•gh \Daley <the late George Da:ley- Union's honor:ary fellow in spm·ts) 'tied his shoe string' on the side line. We pushed them aside, and he ran 30 yards for a touch- down. It was plenty of straight football because or the wet football and the mud-plentr of strai·ght al'm and the twist arm boxing matches on the forwards-no 'sissy stand off' as now. There were plenty of black eyes and broken teeth and noses. The halves were 45 minutes long with a ten minute intermission. Mr. Van Valkenburgh points out that Union had a better team in '91, beating Syracuse 72-0. In that year, Union played Roches- ter· on Saturday, Colgate Monday A letter from Jerome Smith, '39, was presented asking that all mem- bers of the senior staff of The Con- cordiensis be awarded !He passes to home athletic contests as an additional reward for- their work. This was tabled and no action taken. . and Hamilton Wednesday. The first Printing Contract Aw!Ll\ded Ernest Allnutt announced that each fraternity would be charged a sitting fee of $5.00 for !hell' Gar- net picture:>, and that there were nine candidates out for the book. The pl'inting contract has been awarded to the Fort Orange Press of Albany and the engraving to the Jahn and Ollier Co. Drs. Larrabee and Johnson ask- ed that an effort be made to have the faculty I\ecords more accurate than in last ye9.r's book. They sug- gested that the proofs of this ma- terial be shown to the division heads for approval. Robe1 t Walter reported that the Freshman Record was distributed on Nov. 1, and that they would be delivered to all freshman advisors who had not yet received them Immediately. -- o-- - -- Jackman Will Leave If Hamilton Is Victor <Continued from Page 3) dent on the team fur Scotland; members me not cunfinetl to stu- dents as any good Rugby player may play with the International teams. England, Wales, Ireland, and Scotland have teams whose matches are great sports events and occur about once a month thi\Oughout the season which lasts from October until March. Jack- man regrets that the American football season is so short as he enjoys the inter~o!Jeglate contest:;. Prefers Sousaphone At his first Union game Jackman said he sat near Frrddy Wyatt and at his second game he sat next to the .sousapl.ene in tre band. Wyatt, he says, is a verv charmi11g fellow, but he much prefers the sousa- phone. The biggest intercollr·giate Rugby event of tht' >·e~r in Britain is the Oxford-Cambridge game which is plny<·d • vPry year in Dec•Pmtrr at Lundun. About 60,000 spectator·,; tu1·n vut fur thi< event. The annual rowing cunlest on the Thames be- t ween Oxford and Cambridge is the big ev(:nt of the ~port~ year with an estimRt'ld 1,00(),000 specta- tor• l1ing the hur-mile course along the banks of .he Thames. Jackman said also that he would like very much tu get up a Rugby game here at Union and that he would be pleased to hear from any ,;tudcnts who would care to play. He ltves at 31 North Section, South College. o~--- The Healthy Animal <Continued from Page 2) we have the sta;tements ·Of two for- 'games was played at Cl·lnton last G. cross the line, Score 10 .to !0. The mer Continentals, taken from a · Satur.day, Oct. 25, and although the ball was punte<l out ~nd Hamilton story which appeared in the Ham-·' grounds were in a terti:blec concl.i- seemed it. In .t:he ne:xt scrimmage, ilton News several years ago .. Sa.m-· tion, being covered with mud, wate1• Judson passed th-e ball to Ward uel Hopkins Adams, '91, who play- and stones, both team.s playe<l' ~ who fumbled it and Babcock seizing ed right tackle ~ays that hi:> most very good game. Union started the ·Opportunity· and .the bali ·soon vivid recoHections of the game a:re >Vith the .ball and soon had jt dow-n. had anc thet· to ucbdown, and Me- chiefly of mino1· points. \The .enor- near Hamiltcn's goal, and then on Cowatt kicked :another goal. Score mous bulk of the ·enemy ·tactually. a pt·etty play •by Clute and Daley, H· to 10 in Union's favor. ·Time was· considerably lighter than ourselves): the latter succeeded· in making the called soon after t-his, and the and their war-seasoned and busi- · flrst touchdown of the game, horn. twenty-two men rested for ten min- hess-like appearance when they which McCowatt kicked a g-oa;!. The lites. For the first twenty minutes trotted out upon the .field. · ball was taken out to the centr€ of of tile second half, neither side. the field and soon it was once more seemed to have :any advantage, then \One major episode, however, is dangerously near the HamiHon I\1lcCowatt .punted. the ball well still painfully clear in my mi11d; a.: goal, but by an unfortunate funJble down the field. Mills tried to catch. trick by Union wb.en the SGore was ·of one of the Union men, Hamilton lt but failed, and Brigg.s, who was tied at ten all. The Union backs secured the ball and in a .veTy short ::m the spot, pic.ked u.p the ball and shifted to their right and oul' line to Ume, by some splendid r.unning and started for Hami:ton's goal with all our left, expecting the ball to be dodging by Lee, the ball was the rest of the men behind him; carried toward the ·center of the. brought down to within a few .feet it is needless to say he succeeded in· field. when a ·back grahbed the ball, of Union's gcal line. Ward w:as making a touch<lo\vn and again Me- close to the ·quarterback, and· then sent through the center, and Cowatt kicked a goal', making the plunged through the center. The, Hamilton had a touchdown f·mni. scor:e 22 to 10. Uni<ln made one man was not stopped until he which Mills kicked a goal. For the more touchd·own in i:his half on a reached the 2 yard line. The plung- · next ten minutes neither side seern- good run by P'eckham. 'This time lng halfback was George Daley, and' ed to gain anything, but fin.ally <Lee McCowatt fai!e.d in his attempt to I have always liked and admired secured the ball and made another kick the goal and the score l'e-: George, but I seem to recall without. good run of nearly half thE length ma:ined 26 to 1() for soon after time· shame or regret that in my annoy-' of the field. Ward was again forced was called. In the last part of this· ance at the moment, ol eal'nestly en-. through the center and Hamjlton ha!lf, Coons and. B-udd were disquaJ-: deavored to secure one of his ears' had another touchdown, but MH!s ified for sluggiDg, although neither for myself, prGbably as a souvenir. failed to kick a goal this time. Tbe • of them deserv-ed the disqualifica- · Union soon scored·, and after that score was now 10 and 6, in Hanil- tions. Kinny a1:1d Orsler took their was never headed.\ ton's favor. and the HamHton stu- places. In saying that Daley·, Bab- Old C<lncordy .Summary: Union and Hamilton played a second game the same year in. which game the Union squad once again beat Hamilton, this time by· the score of 16-5. dents shouted themselves hoarse. cock and B•rig-gs played the· best The Union team now began to .play i game for Union. no ~me 'is to think more carefully and gradually work- fer a moment that the othere did ed the ball towards Hamilton's goacl not play well, for everybody played line. When within a few :yards of . very well, blocking and tacltling in the line, McQueen acted for the·· good form, and. Clute's passing was moment as quarterback and giving excellent . .saturday 9:00 a. m.\-New :l: ork State .A~:;uc:tatwn ol' Deans lmer- ·est :gH>Ujl ·diSCUSSiOn, hotel van·\....Urler. i:Uu p. lll\-New York State As· soc1at1on of Deans luncheon in .Hale :House. 2:00 P• m. - Varsity Footba!Ji Unwn vs. R«.miiton, .Alexan- der Field, 1:1:00 p. m.--Upper Hudson Asso- ciation of '1:-'hi Beta Kappa, 'l'roy t.;! u:b, T r<ly, N. Y:. Speak- er, J:>r, .1:1ugh Gil belt :Sellon, '\l!.ngland and the central l:Lut opean Problem.\ t;.!lllday 11:00 a. m. - Sunday Sex·vice. 1:>1eachel',. the .t~.ev. Jfx·edel'ick N. Adams, Dean, Tl'inity Ca- thedral; 'l'renton, N. J. Me- morial Chapel, 2:00 p. m.~cbenectady Town Meeting o:f .the Ail', Memol'ia;t Chapel. 4:00-5:00 p. m.-Organ Recital, Dr. El. A .. Tidrnarsb, Memorial Chapel. :Monday 6:15 p. m.-l'lacement Confer- ence. Dean •Harold Alexander, Law School, Dinner at Kappa Alpha Lodge. T11esday 10:00 a. m. - Daily Assembly. Speaker, Mr. Frede1•ic A. Wyatt, •3·2, Memorial Chapel. • • • that~ the reason Chester.field stands out from the others • , . the blend that can't be copied •.. the RIGHT COMBINATION of the world's best cigarette tdf7accos The reason Chesterfield is different is because it combines the smoking qualities of the world's best cigarette tobaccos in 6 ne cigarette. It's the right combincttion of these tobaccos ... mild ripe home-grown a.nd aromatic Turkish, rolled in pure cigarette paper ... that makes Chest- erfield a better cigarette for you to smoke ... milder and better-tasting. the ·Gridiron Ball ... Dave Yunich is tal{ing a freshman from Skid- more who has a twin sister. Dave has the best half,- the one that do<:!sn \t e>tt (so he says). He met her at one of the Skidmore Freshman parti('.S. \For the first thr<'e parties I though I waR just a \Ocial secre· tary but on thr last, love caught up with me.\ ... The annual tooth- nail- and- lHrynx struggle b<:!tween thl'! two local high schools took place Tuesday. Most of the Union men were more intent on watching the cheerleaders. Anyway, they tell us 'lO. We were too busy noticing them ourselves to know . . Me· Enerney, Mulcare and Grant went to the spelling bee on Wednesday night. Nothing like getting culbre, eh fellows? The H. A. CopyriEht 19~8, LIGGETT & MYilRS TOBACCO Co, z:511 ---- Vol. LX Annu Cam:f Toda· Miltc Many F, Officers Er:~rolled The at call\ or r the Union der way t rection of sisted by and stude The go2 ceive so every stw staft men number < f1aternity con.ributi it 1s hope three pr< staff of rc COLLE' ces Trav ing; Mr. sian of Dr. Dougl of Social Ernest E Mr. Saml and grou Hacon, Cl sor Russe ing Buil( G t· over Huilding; Smith, Ge lege dor-m t·ence, A' <.;yrus H1 Marion 1::> ):\'. That chology Goldys, Harnson STUDE De!ta Pt Theta Pi, Douglas : Van Kem phrey; n man; Kll Katppa N Sig-ma, R Alpha, S Tony Ba James V James Be Barton; Dwore; J Van Dyk• er; Pyra 1-ligma C der; Sig Tl1eta D Theta N de•; Nor1 C. Smith McGuire; Luke. Jane Skidr Hea4 Miss J ~tudent College assembly fined he1 need foi colleges, Jar speec fa.ther, containec about th his unde 1n1. .In spE ments, l establish part of 1 have e ments, '' and unc the gavE must as: governm \Stude introduc leges an need th interestE The !c how th• less thm at Unio So.uth C per yea1 divided

an tel so- pa, rat tal, ppa bly. .A. pel. of is he st- to lJNfON COL LEGE L I, •... w .... --. 't • Z-'511 Vol. LXIL, No. a7 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1938 PRICE FIVE GENTS ~================================~==============~==========~=================-=-==~~c=-~~-=-=-=-=-=-==~-=-=-===~~==-=-=-==-=~=============~======~--=-~-.~~~~~-===-~=-~========~==================~ Annual Red Cross Campa,tgn Beg.ins Today On Campus Milton ~Enter Director Many Fact..ilty and Colle9e Officers, Students Are Enrolled as 'Workers' The annual Hed Cross ·\roll call\ or membership campaign •on the Union ·College campus got un- der way this morning under t:he .di- rection of Milton M. Enzer, '29, as- sisted by a large staff of faculty and student \r()ll ~a·ll worlters.\ The goal this year will l>e to re- ceive some contribution ·from every student, faculty, and. college staft member. Last year ·a large number of sludents, mostly non- ft aternity men, did not malte their con.ribution. This will be remedied, it 1s hoped, by the appointment of three prominent neutrals to the staff of roll call wmkers. ~Placement .4p plications Deadline To-day ·at 5:00 Deadline for t:he Placement Buteau applicati()n:;o to be filed by a:ll seniors w-ho wish to se- cure employrnerat through the college haS he en sci f<'>r 5 .p, m. today by Ft•edel'ie A. Wyatt, head of the bure,cau_ BULLETIN: David L. Yunich, president of the Student Ct>tmcil, and Frederick W. Hequembourg, editor of the Con- .. c1ndiensis, sent out letters this moming to the respective :sti.ldent officers of R, P, I. Siena, Russell Sage, .Skidmore, .and Albany State, inviting- them to attend a me~ting in Hale House lounge Thursday to discuss ways of .protesting Hitler's .anti-Semitic program art<l means of materially aiding the German Jews. It was learned this morning that this meeting will be a preliminary step toward the organization of a state- wide movement with New YOI'k colleges participating, AU Union students interested in this movement a1·e asked 1o ,g·et in touch with either Hequembourg or Yunich. Accident l'nsurance Prog,raim Proposed :gy Dr. :Fox in Letters to Parents Expernses Up to $250.00 Will' Be Paid to Those Subscr-ibing to the $10;00 a Year Plan For ten dollars a yea1· Cnion College students will be en- titled to compensation fo1· an~· inju¥ies \\\ hich happen to them d Ul'ing the college year, according to a new plan adopted by the college recently, it was annoanced b_y the admiirish·ation today. ------------------<!> This policy is adopted in accortl- These applieatjon s, wh.ich will contain C()mpletie Information regarding tlle ~ppllcanJ' s schol- astic, extra - curricular and other attainments, ,will ·be mimeographed anti 300, copies will be availabl~ (iE each appli- cation to be seot oaut to pros- pective !'mployct:'s;; this service i~ available oirly- to those will- ing to pay .a le e of nDt mote than $3.00 to help c~ver the cost of the mi:.rneog-Ta p hing and photography. Each application will carry a ~iebuo:e of its sub- L tt F: D b h d R l t d ance with the program at several . e . ers. rom ry urg an a s on Luncheon lndu es other college.; such as Ru.o;:<ell Sag<\ ~kidmme, Kenwood and prepara- AppeaSe Curiosity of Union Family 2-Day Session ~~~ s~~~~~~~~.ute:n~~.w':~k~ii~:~ Of N Y D LenoK, lzwin, and Hackley. 'Trinity In a letter to The Concordiensis,' Dt ew Dry burgh, the popular lit- ' 'J'homas H. Ralston, '40, present ex- tle Scot whom St. Andrews sent to ----------------- Union last year, has fi·rst been change scholar from Union to St. heard from since his mid-summer ject. PI P d . t• Andrews, tells of his experiences· return to the land of firths and ay r0 .. U,(; iOn at the Scottish institution and braes by Mr. and Mrs. Fred Wyatt. Cla.ss to . ~-.lc,l e F·Jrst' ·abroad. After an eventful return trip and · Q ·• two months at his home in Fife, . • • e a nS College bas a similar plan costing Elect Margaret Minor President to Succeed Dr. Paul Leebrick $15 a year and covering up to $300, while the ten dollars at Union will pay all exr>enses up to $230. COLLEGE STAFF: Miss Fran- ces Tt avis, Administration build· ing; Mr. D. Rich.ard Vveeks, Div;- sion of L1teratu.re, Bailey Hall; Dr. Douglas W. Campbell, Division of Social Studies, Bailey Ha:ll; Dr. Ernest E. I>ale, .Biology Building; Mr. Samuel H. J-ohnson, buildings and ground staff; Dr. Egbert K. Hacon, Chemist.ry Building; Profes- sor Russell A .ball, Civil Eng-ineer- ing Building; Dr. l!'rederick W. G 1· o v e r, .l:!.;lectr-ical Engineering Huilding; Professor Edward S. L:. · Smith, Geology Hall and No!'th Col- lege dol'mito~:'Y: M:r. Arthur C. Law· renee, .AluJnn·i Gymnasium; Mrs. <.;yrus Briggs, H.ale House; Mrs. Marion Buell, Lib-rary; Dr. lJ;verett ):V. Thatcher, Physics and Psy- chology :Building; Miss Marcia Goldys, Silliman Hall; and Dr. Harnson ~. <!ortin, Washburn Hall. Tom was asked for some tnfor- Drew has returned to St. Andrews Approximately 250 delegates to 'Performance Fr.tday 'IDalion on European affairs and the 12th annual conference of the , · . for one more year to pick up some · · D · · Teports, \That collection is as yet New York Assoc1at1on of eans university honors next June. d t' not worked into a form with in- concluded their two- ay mee mg Letteus were malled to all parent;; and guardians of Union students· to inform them of the inauguration or this ne1v Insurance plan. The con- tent of the letters is as follows: \To Parents and Guardians: We are glad to be able t.o an- nounce tbat the college has at- ranged to make available for our students, a plan which guar- antees to reimburse the patent for any :medical eKpense which may atis€ from an accident in which a .student is injured dm- ing the college year. This covers X-rays, :hospital bills, nu1·ses, physicians and surgeons' fees, laborato~ costs, medicines, and, in csho1t any medical costs in- cUI red as the r csult of an acci- dent. :Bills up to $250.1}0 will be paid. STUDEI'lr G R 0 U P S : Alpha Delta Phi, Le-slie Pat'frath; Jieta Theta Pi, Rollin Twining; Obi Psi, Douglas Murpb.y; Delta Cbi, H. C.· Van Kem·en; Delta Phi, Pa.ul Hum- phrey; Delta Upsilon, Jes.se Sher- man; KaiJpa Alpha, David 'raft; K•tppa Nu, At· by Halpern; :Kappa Sig-ma, Robet't CLark; Lam:bda Chi Alpha, Sherman Parry; Ne11t.rats, Tony Barbieri, ;fohn Schultz, and. James Wade; Pili Delta TheUI, James Bell; l'lll Gmnma Delta, Guy Barton; Phi Sigma Delta;. Marvin Dwore; Phi Sigma Ili:appa, Franlt Van Dyke;. Psi Upsilon, David Mill- er; Pyramid Club, George Peck; Sigma Cbi, ,V, Vaughan Alexan- der; Sign1a Phi, Edward Wells; Tlteta Delta. Chi, Leo J. Dwyer; Theta Nu Epsilon, Melvin Laven- der; North ()ollege, Professor E. S. C. Smith; S()ui;h College, Mr. John McGuire; Oldgy·m Hall, Stanley Luke. ---.(),----- Jane Grayi Skidmore Student Head. Speaks Here Miss Jane Gray, president of the ~tudent government at Skidmore College was the speaker in daily assembly this morning. She con- fined her re-marlc:s· to the value and need for st·uden t govern menu in colleges, and previous to her regu- lar speech Tead a letter from her father, Berna.rd -Gray, '11,. which contained many humorous 1·emarks about the college as it was during his undergr.ad uate days, from 1907· 1~11. .In speaking: of student g()vern- ments, :Miss Gray said that they establish a t•esponsibility on tlle part of the student and In order to have efficient student govern- ments, \We must be famiriar with and understand the machinery of the government ... Secondly, we must assume responsibility for this government. \Student g()ve:rnments are being introduced In mme and more col- leges and this shows that .students need these g:ov~.rnments and are in iereste<l in them,\ she concluded. 'The Man WHh t.he Flower terest enough to talte your readers' After spending some time witll · on the campus Saturday noon with In H 'as Mo.ut'h,'' 'The F\Jrst 'minds away from tile football sea- tlle Wyatts in July, the '37-'38 ex· a luncheon in Hale House at which h N b 1 · d change scholar stuffed his high· Dr. Karl C. Leebrick, president of And the Las ~::' . ..Are Plays son, t. e ovel? er e ectwns, an land kilt and Union diploma ·into Kent State University was the ii /\'\\ the next (Hamtltonl weekend. But b d b d d\ t th' f · by the time the first two have a. ag an a e. a le_u , 0 IS an principal speaker. The course in Play Production, ceased to hold the spotlight I hope ct.ty. ~he following mdtcates that The Kent State University head will give its initia..l presentation of to have a compilation long enough ~ts tnpff t? Scotland was no hum· said, \ ... Our public system of 1938-39 on Friday night, November for five or six letters.\ I rum a atr: education is one of our major con- 18, at 8 o'clock in t:l!e Mountebanks \Milt Enzer drove me to Albany tributions to civilization; we should Theatre. For thjs occasion two, Speaks of Dryburgh and I reached New 'Yorlc about 6:30 strive to make. it a more effective plays have been sel-ected -- \The in two hitches, which wasn't bad, force in our cherished democ- H . In speaking of \Drew\ Dry- · th t I h d k\lt · b Man with the Floower in · ts seemg a a my I m my ag racy,\ He then outlined a program d burgh, who was on the campus last d t 1 • Mouth\ ·by Luigl .Piran<lello an an rousers on my egs. for improving education especially year as the exchange scholar .from ~;~:w!~~~ty,an~ ~~~a~~st\i~y [;r~~ St. Andrews, he writes, \Drew is so Good Crossing ~~ ~tsfe:~~~~n;~o~d~:at~~~il~~~~~~~ busy working for his degree that I \The voyage was calm but scenes. don't see him as often as I'd lilte. marred by fog from the moment zenship. The first play is typical of the Usually when I do, it's on the bad- we left New York. We were lS At a meeting of the conference kind of theatre w!Jtich the great min ton court where he trounces me. hours behind schedule (whicll I Saturday morning, Miss Susan Italian playwright, Pirandello, rep- roundly. He says one of his aims still pronounce 'skedule' out of Brandeis, Regent of the University resents. \The Man V\Vith the Flow- .for the year is to take me over at deference to my .American friends) of the State of New York, gave er in his Mouth\ I<> not so much tennis, so r suppose Spring will on reaching Boston, and 21 hours her views on the guidance program philosophical s}leclil=ati()n as it is ftnd him cllasing me all over the behind when at last we left there. which schools and college are grad- a charactet· study ill!. dialogue of a courts. In the meantime I'm going \So we did not disembark on Fri· ually adopting to supplement the man with a pain:l'ul anod incurable to try to develop a respectable day, 5 th of August as expected. In· subject matter of the class room. malady, his attl~ud.e toward the game of golf. Here's an amazing stead we got off at 9:SO on Satur· Wyatt Secretary small usual occ mences of life, point on that subject: the year's day, the 6th. contrasted witll tbat of a well man, fees for playing on all four courses h I d I · t· · \I was glad to see m\ brother at t e norma an ~n magma IVe m- total fifteen shillings, slightly less ' dividual. than four dollars. the quay, for I reached Glasgow \The First ami t:he Last\ is a :.i~~ce!.~;75 as my financial re· longer play an<l 'ite!Ls t:he story of Sees Milk Bar He almost wished himself in the two brothers, t.he etder a success- \In my knocking about the Con- \states\ again, Drew declares, when ful barrister ana ·the younger a tinent and the British Isles I met the Scots charged him a dollar and wastrel. Here G-l).is.worthy is in- with a number of pleasant sur- a half to carry his luggage from terested, as he ofielll is,. in the ele- prises,\ he continues. \None took the dock to the railway station. ments of nobility ilL the weakling, me aback so completely as the Several times he reaffirms hia brought out by tlte erisi.s of a mur- ·words uttered in a Milk Bar on gratitude for his .American year. der, as opp()sed to the .true weak- Piccadilly Circus, 'You're over here His studies at Union, he feels, will ness and selfishness of the \good\ rather early, aren·t you?' The com- greatly help him at St. Andrews. brother. The tbe;mc is not unlike bination of circumstances that it He spealcs. particularly of his as- that of \Ju.stice a!Ld e:xpresses, as was in London, that the words· sociation with the Schenectady Ro- does the PirandcJlo play, the idea came from the amazing Br. Bron- tary Club. Drew sincerely hopes that unavoidab lc adversity, wheth· ner, and that it was a Mill~ Bar, that the time will not be too long er of sickness m· ol: other mlsfor- you will admit, is pretty hard to before he sees his many Union tune, evo·kes fl•om hurnan natm·e equal. friends again. a greatness or a::n app.1·eciation of it, which, in cll'([inal'Y circum- --------------------------------- ~~~::t. lies u~necognized and Nation's First Lady on Campus According t() ·t:h~ culoltom of the . past two years, stodents and the public are admit! €(]· without charge as auditors of the ccourse. Professor Kr.a1rs To Address .ACS Dr. Charles .A baus, president- elect of the .Aroerl<:lll.n Chemical So- ciety, will spealt tor.:nouow evening at 8 o'clock to the Eastern New York Section <:of ~11a..t society in the Butterfield Chernic.al Laboratory. Dr. Kraus, who iis Director of Chemical Resear«:ll at Brown Uni- verf'ity, will !N•ture on \The Influ- ence of ConstiltLtio:~al Factors on the Properties oE' li:Jectrolytes.\ An informal dinner at FfalE House will pt'ecede the meeting-. Also Saturday morning nine dif- ferent groups met in various rooms of the Hotel Van Curler to dis- cuss informally specific educational problems which exist in scholastic mstitutions today. Officers were elected Saturday morning, and Miss Margaret Minor, Dean of Girls, Chat·lotte High School, Rochester, was elected pres- ident to succeed Dl'. Leebrick. Miss Helen Moreland, Dean of Students, New York State College for Teach- ers, and chairman of the program for this year's meeting, was named vice-president, to succeed Sraida E. Weeks, of Oneida High School for a two-year term. Frederic .A. Wyatt, assistant to the Secretary of Uniop College, was elected secretary of .the association for a two-year term to succeed Viola Reynolds, of Glens Falls High School. Hal\old E. Hol- lis er, Dean of Boys at Rye High SchO()l, was re-elected treasurer. ~.1iss Cathrtine Reed. Dean of DUffalo State Teachers College, re- ported that the monograph on \Continuit~· of Guidance\ published by the association has been de- .nanded by school administrators tht·oughout the U.S. and in Puerto Rico. Miss Lillian M. MacDonald of the University of Buffalo, in her sur- vey, repmted that deans are active membe1s in a wide variety of other organizations, which makes them intimately acquainted with nearly eve1y civic, sta:e and national as- sociation. Suggests Standard Report M·rs. Dora Degan, Dean of Wom· en at Alfred University, in her re- port suggested a standard form of report 'by college deans to second- ary schools at the end of student's 'freshman year so that there may be better correlation between prep- aJ·ation for college work and achievement in college. The letteT fr~i:n her father told how the sturlent body numbered less than 40n stU<dents wllen he was at Union and tlle chapel was in South College. The tuition was $75 per year, and tbe college year was· divided int<J three semesters. Dr. Kraus gr:adlllated' .from the University of IC:a;n.sas in 1898 as an electrical eng;ineer. He was in- structor in ph.ysjcs at the Univer- sity of CalifornEa; for four years, coming East in L90• to do graduate work at M. L ''E'. and receive the · Ph.D. degree in 1!11)18. Until 1914 he r-emained at 11![, I . T • as research as- · sociate and Assi sta..nt Professor of Physical Chcmlsf'j-y_ In t914 he was · appointed Dit•ector of the Chemi- cal Laboratory 111.t Clark l]niversity and remained tberE for ten years, when he became Dl:rector of Chemi- · cal Research <!I Bi:\oWll University. Here Mrs. Fmnldin D. Roosevelt is shown being greeted at .the President's House last Friday when she made her .first ·visit to the college from where lier :fatl1er-in-Iaw, James Roosevelt, was grlj.(}uated in 1847. From left to right, Mrs. Dixon Ryan Fox, Mrs. Roosevelt, Dean Helen H. Moreland of NE'w York State Colleg~ for Teachers (Albany) who was chairman of the prog1•am ccnnn:tittEe for the New York State Association of Deans conference rt-ddressed by Mrs. Roosevelt; and President l!'ox. Dr. Leebrick said in his address, \.As a nation we have consciously , adopted the polcy of education for all our people. We have put our faith in our schools as agencies for all our people. ·we 'have put our faith in our schools as agencies to train and to inform our citizens in the belief that an educated cili- .zenship is essential to the preserva- tion and functioning of democratic (Continued on Page 4) This plan is broad In its scope, and there are no 1 estric- tions in the coverage. It in- cludes a.ccidents Slli:ltained at college, including all sports, while at .home and while tzavel- ing between college and home. Any accident sustained during the en tire college year is cover- ed. Summer vacations are not covered. If you desire to take advan- talte of this plan the cost is $10.00. C<Jvem.ge is provided by the Inde=ity Insurance Com- pany of :North America. It has been in operation, with gratify- ing results, in some of the finest school.s and colleges in the coun• try for t:he past three years. If you are interested, will you please sign the attached slip and return It to us? Coverage begins as soon as we receive the slip, and con- tinues until the final day of the college year. Cordially y<Jurs, Sig-ned, DIXON RY.AN FOX, President.'\ Followin.g the letter thete is a de• tachable slip to be signed by the in- terested. parents or guardians, which is to be sent to the comptrol- ler, accompanied by a check fo'l: the fee. ---o---- Gre enbie Advises U. S. Stay in China Sunday, Nov. 13 Sidney Green- hie, Schenectady forum leader, said tbis afternoon while presenting t.he probleln f<Jr discussion before the Schenectady TDwn Meeting of tlle Air, that the United States should maintain a determined policy for keeping: China free for the world commer-ce. This was the second time th·at Mr. Greenbie has spoken at the xneeting. In defense of his statement Mr . Greenbie said, \If Japan, Italy and Ge1many cau be appeased by giv- ing them new regions and new opportunities at the expense of other nations, will such powerful a nation as ourself re1nain ap- peased .w ben deprived of old re- gions an<l old opportunities on which o11r welfare depends? If strengthening the bully nations by yielding to them everything that they want is justifiable, then will not the nations now shut out and deprived later have to assert their rights by force also? And so an- other Versailles, another era of bitterness leading to another Mun- ich will have been created. I am .sure that if we stand firm for our t•ights in China as in the Americas, we shall also be waging a bloodless· war.\

Page Two THE CONCORDIENSlS, TUESDAY. NOVEMBER 15, 1938 arnurnr tr.~~ ,~ ;>~\' ~ .• something concrete. We, as college students ···1. \.:ll==========='-~ 11 and humanitarians, should formulate and Dots and Dashes M 0 T I 0 N actively participate in an economic boycott on all German goods, refuse to visit Gennany 1.:.!;===========================;;!.1 Q. Why da 1novie reviews pick on FouNDED 1877 \.-1 Causa Per sa Parole 11 ssai\ S d S •ry1·ont> !•ow<llr·r and pour money into its coffers by which atm ay evening and unday I ,prejudices, because one can nevt · morning pape1·s carried accounts 1 teH when they will be \~anied to A 'vVhen he first appeaz:ed in of fm·ther persecu:ion of the Jews an ex reme by some fana\ic.tl .poli- .Lloyds of L!lndon they were all in Hitler's plarg.round-Germany- tician or government. ravorably dtsposed toward him. He where dt as t-ic decrees were issued A Germany whtch is heat·tless to- was the whi e hope for the throne which will make it practteally im- wa: d an unfortunate ·People is be- . of Mr. Amelica, then held by a iJOS\Ible for German Jews to malte !.ing ·courted by the Con:wt·vative Hobert 'l:aylor. Since that time, a living in the future. I gover.nment of \<lemoct·attc\ En!',· however, LlJPryl :lanuck & tJo. .\l~lllht>r of the As!:5ul\iated Collegiate Prt:~ti rulJ di~trihutnr of the Collegiate Dige!5t. The offidal new~paper uf th~ stuli~IItti Qf-tilliou College. Published 'J.'ues<lay and F1:idays through- nut tlw ~.:uLL•g~;:~ Yt!ar. Eulto\ial Rooms, Silliman· Hall, Uniuu College Call!· pus. Tell!phone, St'llt>llE:'< tally, 4~0·13:: Pubilcatlun Offlt•e, The Uazefte l're,;s. S3i l:itcit~ St.. Selleneciady, !':. Y, Teleplwne 4-i I-ll 1-Jntett.d at the Sdu. .. nectady Post UtTu-e as -Set·orlll Cl:u·:~ I\.la it ~I a ltt:>r. Subscription price Five eents a eopJ'; $3.00 a ycoai-; delivered a.n_ywhere in the Uuitf:;:!d State::;.:....._ ___ _ it can cany on na\lseating actions against our fellow men, and finally inv.ite Gemmn students who have been refused the right to quench their thirst at the fount of 'learning to come to America aBd shm·e our privileges. Thtu·sday aftemoon in the Hale House lounge, Union College will take active steps to materially aid the oppressed in German~·, when representatives from the Student Council and The Concordiensis meet with deleg-ates from R. P. l., Russell Sag-e, Skid- more, Siena and New York State Colleg-e for Teachers to outline a reprisal prog-ram for their respective student bodies to follow. \Ve are the \leaders ot tomorrow,\ and in recog- lllzing- the tuture's l'espons,bilit!es, we must face the problems of the present witth .tnll reliance m our own potentialities. We have lleen challenged, ~:md so, we will act! An ironic sitL:ation is created land. Chamberlain played his carrle, <lave chosen to supply him with when German Jews are dept·ived i ln .. the tecent Cz.echoslo'l'akian roles which are eitheP beyond his vf theh· cultural rights, and it .is : Crt:Ots, -and chose as h-ts partnet· ·compr·ehension or beneath his dig- the Jews who have made -great con-! Adol-f Hitler, pet·secutot· Pxtraord-i- mty. •In either case, he never un- tt ibu: ions to the advancement ·of nat y of the Jewish minority. It bends sutric;.ently to indic3ite wheth- German mus·ic and literature. <al:es no superb memory to· r·ecali er he is, or -is not, qUite aware of In the course of fi.ve ·ears the · t~at th~ re.scue of a . Czechoslova- . he character he is supposed to be Jews have been forbidde: to prac- 1 ku~n _mm~rt~y- was of'fltler's reason playmg. 'l'hat, coupled with such tice the .pmfessions of civil serv- , fct . Inter fer r!ng with Czechoslo- questwns:ble publicity as the re- ants or jouritalism or serve as , valu_a. The mconststency _·of the cent magazine attide which corn- artists musicians ~riters or ever Nazt program toward mmorities .pared htm to George Arliss, should as ne~spaper ve;ldors. J·~ws hav'' lca~s one to wonder how such an . 'be enough to turn not only critics, been -ba-n ied fre>m public school;; a:tutude can be accepted by a na· ·but the public as wel'l, aga-inst ·him. and it appears now that the Old . 10 n ?~\ can buff',' 10 -otl:ler :5o-called. Q. One newspaper reviewer said, Testament :he history of their· mt~ll;gent Jeadet~. s~ch as Cham- ''Power ascends to the highest act- I·ace, 1vi!l be barred from use i:~ benam and Dalacuet to the extent mg level he has yet attained in his religion~ teaching~ in the schools. where these 'latter c_ountrtes are ··portJayal o:f Ute uiplomat who· de- But how can anyone imagine an\ w:llmg to pla~· baH w.tth Germany. \'Oteli hts lite to digging ditches:' Senior Board Frederick W. Hequembourg ..... 'Edi tor-in-t:hief t'sr CpsiloH Huuse-4-\710 Max Len ..................... Business Manager Kappa Nu House-i-73:!1 Robert C. Walter, Jr ......... Managing Editor l'si UpBilDn House-4-SIJ:O Jerome Smith ............. , .. , .. Spolls Editor Kappa Nu Huuse-i-n:n Robert A. Saaf ................... News Editor 1133 Pa.rl\.\\·ouU Blvd.--+6'1~~ H. Wyman Hitchcock ............. Copy Editor Delta ·Upsilon Hout3e-4-7V~~ John Malone ............... Circulation l'.lanager _______ .....:.:11.:..:'9:..:1....:..:K:.::e.::.Y.:ce\::..' ..:A.::':..:'e:.:_.-_-...:l.:..:·u:..:',~3_1~-· ~ ______ _ k\'PRE!IE.N1ED FOR NATIOf'..I..L ADVERTI~If'l.,. aY National Adve~tising Service, Inc. College P\bli•hor5 Repre5<n!t.alh•e 420 MAOISON AVE, NEW YORK. N.Y. CHl~AGO ' BOSfOM ' LOS ANGELES \ 5Mi FnAtiCISCO Junior Editorial Bond C. Russell Deyo Geurge L. Pe,·k Christopher 1.\1. Fahy Larry Pellotl!er E<lWiH A. Frtz, Jr Sophomore Editorial Board Pnu\ Ht>t'l\er, Hie-hard Henyan. Johu Le\\1~. Jolnt Philip~. 11ortlm~r H(lbins, Hubert ~t~hulht'rg, Laskar St·.h\\art. J:: nw~ E. Twiuing. Business Staff H.otn~rt Eisner, Jack Hahinowitz, '\'illiarn Coates. Artnantl li'eigenl:Jaum, Stanlt>y GreeJ1st€i11, .'\lltiy Kay, .Ju:--tit• l't•rl~tf:'IIl . .J:lnw~ Y•~ung. 111m:dd H:••~il. Arthur I,aV$. Issm• Etlit~r. Assistants .I l'illllll'\- Tueo;day, November 15. 1938 ====-~·~- ~- =====~ ----- -- FIGHTING NAZIISM WITH FIRE With the rape of Czechoslovakia still fresh in OUI' memories, the world is aga.in lll'ought face to face with the problem of what is to be done with Germany's ins~ne dictator. Adolf Hitler? We are all acquainted with his most recent act of tyranny-the suppression of the Jewish people from all business enter- prise and educational ~1ctivities-which makes us realize that no ra.ce, creen ot· insti- tution is safe from his paranoiac persecu- tions. Hitler has not simply created a local problem to be solved by the Jewish race, but has issued a world-wide challenge to all Christian peoples. We have all known for sometime that Der Fuehret· would go to almost any ends to make his main political ten~t-the uniting- of all Aryan blooded Germans into one awe- some nation under his tutelage-a fact. But many of us felt, in the past, that even Hitler was humane enough to give fellow men and 0 women a chance to live. We find now that our earlier hopes were ill-founded. When he decrees that all Jewish business hou.ses must be sold by the first of Jamuwy for a mere pittance of their real worth and incites his fanatical gang to openly desecrate the sacred heal'ths of Catholic churches, we must take up his challenge and show hi.m that some things are still sacred today. We do well to hate this totalitarian philos- ophy and fight stoutly for democ:racy and the American system of free enterprise. But the time has come when we must do more than protest, we must fight back with fire for fire. lf we are to take our rightful place in the world politic, w~ must cast aside the out-moded idea of America as an isolated isle of security, and take om places alongside other democratic and God-fearing peoples and attack the growing menace of ~aziism. It is well to pray and protEct against Hit- ler's atrocious tactics, but he has progressed so far along the road of sin that mere words will have little effect on hirn. We muRt do MEDICAL REIMBURSEMENT PlAN The gene1·al consensus of student opinion agrees that L'nion has kept up ·with, and at tunes even ahead of, modem educational trends. But we have o!ten heard these same students, who a few moments before com- plimented the college on its high standing w1tll the outside wmld because ot the hig-hly tramed men it turns out yearly, critictze Cnwn because it fails to recogmze that its medical facilities are inadequate to safe- guard the health of its undergraduates. However, if last night's announcement that the administration has ::trranged to make a medicalreimbmsement plan available to its whole student body can be taken as a criterion of the administration's awareness of our difficulties in this respect, then we may t·est assured that in the future Union will take its place with other institutions of higher learning that recognize a college's re- sponsibility to the physical welfare of its undergmduates does not end with the hiring of two doctors on part time to lool< after the health and injuries of its students. No mat- ter how competent these physicians may be, theit· resources are limited. It is well to outline plans to prevent dis- ease, sickness, and injuries; but no plan is infallible, and when accidents do occur, it is part of the college's responsibility to help the unfortunate J'egain his past health. The plan submitted to the parents or guardian of every Union student on an optional basis does just this. We are all familiar with cases in our own fraternities or d01~mitories whe1·e a student has incmred an injury in the pursuance of his daily duties, and after regaining his former physical well-being found himself unable to meet the financial obligations he has incurred. Often he does pay his medical bills, but in so doing he must by necessity leave college. The present optional plan would make similar situations unnec.es.sary and improbable he1·e. The college has taken a step in the 1·igh t direction, but the torch has been flung to us and our parents. Will we carry on the good work'! Th.e future holds the answer and it is The Concordiensis' hope that the ansv1·er will be \yes';. And at Other Colleges A new hig]J. in college and university enrollments has been set this fall with an increase over last year of 4.8 per cent. Most colleges and universities also received a larger number of applications than here- .tofoz·e, but many have set up rigid requirements that limit the numbet· of those accepted. A most 1oerious problem exists oh the OBERLIN COLLEGE campus. lt seems that there are not adequate bathing facilities in the freshmen rooming houses. Says the student newspaper about the situ- ation: \We declare dogmatically that one bathtub is not enough for thirteen men.\ And we declare just as dogmatically, one bathtub is not enough for two n1Pn' <ort of religious teaching to .;. Perh~ps we ~ave_ deviated f~orn what han you tu say to .that? ist in a country where racial di,;- the ? 01 ~.t of mmo_r~ty ~uppresswn, A. Firstl-y, .here ate serious ~rimination ex::ists and the Pt'onl' bth~tttt ts. equally ll.JP?,' .ant 1 . 0 see doubts tnat l:-ower has ever at- .ive under the admini:;tration nf a a bestdes German, s desptcable tl ·natme t f • h J th d tamed· any level of acting ability, .patanoic. · ' n o . e ews. o er em- oct atic counties h~ ve aided the pi operly speaJ<,ng; secondly, that Sine£' 1935 Jews. ha~e been baned. !~eicll in \;aving\ minorit:es, such same revie~er satd, \The burning ft om member ship m the Ia bor, a~ thc> Sudetens. no pes, desire\ and i<ieah; whicn front a requisi: e fc•r employme11t' In America we are living under dt ove 'Ferdinand de Les->eps to in most of the German commercia! >~ democratic form of o·over nment uvercome all ob.otacles to complete and mdustrial enterprises. , and this governmen: wlll stay dem~ the great Suez canal must be ]{in- The condition of the Jew in Grr·- 1 ocratic only as long as minorities dt ed spirit.s to the force which many is sympathy-provok•ng to t.J:-.,,' arC' not suppressed and prevented pt ompts Darryl B. tsic) :6anuck to American, but it also teaches th· from th(·ir \pursuit of happiness.' br'ing the American pub!tc such Amet-ican the dangers of racinl. Ho 1 ·atio H. dlm productions as Suez.\••• Notary Public White Tit>, 'l'ains and Tan Perfect pr epar·ation for a dance, at least the All College celebration at Union, goes farther than a neatly pressed full dress suit, while tie and ?. Chesterfield <overcoat not cigarette). Neither life at Union nor the fall elimatt' of flehc>nect~dy seem to pt ovide the right combi- nation to make a certain group of fellows look as healthy ati they would like to appear. In order to bring Florida north and California east they go to the gymnasium, pull the violet t·ap lamp from the shelf and gil'e themselves a quick artifieial tan which can be done in a few minutes of patient sitting. It pt·oduces 1vondertul re~ults both on the fello\v and his datG if she is suspec ib !G to that certain ruddy glow. We chatted with one of the fellows who perennially pulls this clever but timely stunt. He said he had sinus trouble and didn't want to be distributed by an attack ove1· the weelcend of dances. Now, that's an int e1 estlng answer. How Not to Get a ,Job The \New Yot•k Times·· last weel1 published an item from Union on why college graduates are idle. The heads of a bureau here, the article did not say which bureau, attribute unemployment to: stammering, small townet·, bad sl1in, lack of animation, smirlter, defective vi- sion, overshyness, lack of frank- ness and humor, emotional unbal- ance, weak appearance and paren- tal domination. Why not say a fel- low is no good and be done with it? Linlll; From a Student Contributor Oh! Exam Bowed by the weight of Centuries, They lean on their pens and stare through space, Hoping some divine plan will come to take ' The emptyness Jf the ages from their face. Doctor With sparkling repartee and tt-ip- ping tongue The ptofessor swiftly cover four centm•ies, Before the bell has rung-. He curtly answers the apple-polish-, ing group And then passes to the library For his academic soup-. -R.B. Be,·erag-e Vote The Van Cut·Ier Tap Room, George's, Tony's, Nicolaus' ,the Palorama, Dint y's, and any other Union i:im we have missed, can go rlght alo.ng their happy way, confident that there will be no legal action against the consump- tion of alcoholics. The vote in this district ·was three to one against local prohibition. I'ictures for Sale Dr. Burges Johnson can be had fin photo fot•m) for one dollar. He is listed in a catalogue of Good- speed's Boston Bookshop along with three hundred and forty-nine other famous cor<temporary writ- ter s, actors and artists of other breeds. Tne prices range around one dollar .and are available in limited number's for collectm·s. We are wondering how the sale of tllese autographed pictures compares in popularity with that of movi'l'l ac- tors and actresses. This summer a prospective Union College student was being 9hown IN THE MAIL Dr. Stf.'\\art Clarifit'.s Situation Nowmbe1 14, 1938 Tu the Concot dien~is: Sir: The article in you1 b.<ue of No- vember 11, 1938- -·\Key Reporter•· which reveals Phi Bete.s in \Who': \\' ho\ needs ~orne con ection. Th\ l'hi Beta Kappa membet;; of the faculty ate nut limittd tu lJJvbion:> I and II, but many of them are in Division III. The fC>!lowin;\ list in- cludes the member\' accctding to divisions: Division !--Edward Lim.:s Carroll, mstt uctor in Englisl1; Hat rison C. Coffm, Chairman of the Division of Literatme and Profe;sm of Greek; Robert W. Crowell, Aso;ociate Pro- fessor Emeritus of Modern Lan- guages in Re.,idence; George H. Danton, Chaoirman of the Fields of Modern Languages and Professor of German; Gemge D. Kellogg, Chair-; man of the Field of Ancient Class- ic,; and Professor of Latin; Gordon R. Silber, instructor in modern lan- guages; Morton C. Stewart, asso- ciate professor of German; Ber- u·and M. Waingc1, A:;sistant Pro- fessor of English; and Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox, Pteo;ident. Division II-Fredet ick L. Bron- ner. chairman of the Division of Social Studies and .A.ssociate Profes- ~or of History; Do11glas W. Camp- bell, Assistant Profe.ssor of Govern- went; Walter C. Langsam, Profes- sor of History; Harold A. Lanabee, chairman of the Field of Philosophy and Professor of Philosophy; Ver- none A. O'Romke, Assistant Pro- ft!.>'sor of Government; and Joseph Rotundo, instructor in economics. Division III-F. C. Chillrud, As- ~istant Professor of Education; Leonarc;! B. Clark, .AEsistant Profes- ~or. of Biology; Edward Ellery, l,hatrman of the Faculty, Chairman of the Division of Science, and Pt o- fessor of Chemistry; Augustus H. I:>'ox, Assista:ht Profee.sor of Mathe- matics; Char:es F. F. Garis, Dean of the College, Chairman of the Field of Mathematics, and Profes· sor of Mathematic~: Overton Luhr Assi~tant Profe~sor of Physics; John L. March, Chairman of the Field of Psychology and Professor of .Psychology; David S. Morse, Pro- fe~or of Mathematics; Vladimir RoJansky, Professot of Physics, Everett W. Thatcher, As5istant Pro- fessor of Physics; and Peter I. Wold, Chairman of the Field of Physics and Professor of Physics. Sincerely yom s, MORTON C. STEWART, Sec. Union Chap. Phi Beta Kappa around .the campus and when pass- ing Silliman Hall his guide men- tioned that among the college fa- ~i!Jties was a barbershop. The young man replied if ! hat was the case he was sony but he could not enroll as he intended to work hi~ way thrcugh college by opening a haircut and shaving shop. Tony Barbieri need not feel guilty. This ambitious wol'ker has found a place Q. Well, isn't T~Tone ever going to be popul.at• with critic.o again? A. That depends largely upon himself. The corning ~truggle 1or .t\'ower will be between an ut ge to see himself pol\traying famous his- tolical characters and a conscious- ness. that he should confine his ef- forts to pla.y.ng juveniles until such a time as rus ability measures up to his ambition. Q. Just what wa.s \\rung with Sup-z~?' A. Tyrune l·ow~J, Lureua Y uung, Annabella, J. Edward BI'Omberg; Darryl .:Ganuck; •rwentieth-Century Fox. Q. Who do you think you are, anyhow·? A. Stanley Luke. J. M. '*'·t\Vhining noise in dis ance, as of body tm nmg in grave.) 0--- NOTICES Tonight at 8:00 p. m. in the Old Chapel the Philornathean Society Will hold a practice debate with the Sl1idmore debating team. The sub- ject of the debate will be, \Re- solved that The United States Should Not Use Public Funds to Stimulate Business.'' All interested ~ either varsity or practice debat- mg are asked to attend. The mee.t- i?g is not open to the general pub- he. There . will be a meeting of the Internattonal Relations Club Wed- nesday aft€rnoon in Old Chapel. DUKE UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE DURHAM, N. C. Ji~ollr term~ ,of Plt>ven we-:...1\.:-~ arl? given t'a('h _YeHl', fhe:of' Jllay he taken ('Oil- SPC'UtlveJ,y (gratluatiOia in three and one-tiuartt>T years) or tht·E'e term. Le tal,eu ('U('h Yt'ar fgrt~tluation it.., four years~. The entraB<·e- require~ me ntH are 111 tell :genee, dl~l'a{'tPr and tlut:-e Y<.-'~lfs of nJlleg~ worl<, ill<'lUding tlw . ~UhJe(~tH :-pedfif:ld fnt' Clasg A m~<lw_al fWllnnlx. l 'atnlogues and ap- I!IIL•atioll fu; rus. 111ay Ue obtained front thE> Adntlsswn Cumtnittee. .. -J:d(~l~j = 'l'~•·s, - Wrd, • Tlntrs. - ~ HALl,\' };IJ,ERS In \TA ll:-ll~H.Jo:f) ANGEll' Henry Armetta • Bill Robinsmt In ,.ltoAn llEli!ON\ Hollert \How T'o Watch Helll'l1ley in l•'ootball\ ·when th:e finest hotel type barber services costs you no more it is wise economy ' to patronize FALCONE'S for himself at Notre Dame where 11-r---------- business is rushing. I· Ajlpl'OV!l.l Father Sheen, who recently preached here under the auspices of the Newman Club, has given his pontificial 0. K. on the Me- morial Chapel and permits New• man members to attend. Markers note. David Light. Jr. FALCONE'S HOTEL VAN CUR.LER Plenty of Parking Space .~ \3· Thr iln Co!lt 'LJnior s First.( Yards Yards Passes Passes .Passes ..Punts Avet•a~ Runba Funibl Ball lc ·PenaJt Yards Satu feet fc ·capaci· of cole today down foo!ba: rivals, out mi vance( Con tin ptovid Regis and n: t!tan 14 firE net. Cap~ Thorn: Lewis senior collegi in tod I It v down well, Balch goal c a 1.0( kickir many ing h Winte tribut time on dar: birn d Uni• off, s taslt < Patrie Union Hamr myer rolled Rami zon ~ Samn: tinent threw was c Jim c Unlor: conve Hal comb: the t being myer later skirt PI I 3( -=

ck on in all He hrone by a time, Co. with his s dig- un- of to be such re- corn- t ·him. said, act- in his de- er at- , that whicn to !tin- which uck to such going upon tor ge to his- scious- his ef- il such res up \Vith Young, al'P, J.M. as Old Society the sub- \Re- States to debat- meet-· pub- of the b Wed- given ('OU- and term~ in ter and A ap- fron1 _.,., = In Watch THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1938 Page Three Gridders (rush Hamilton 21-0 In Season's Final,e Here lntramurals Three 'Sophomofes. Tally Touch. dow·n. ·s· Class N_ um __ erals A d d 18 F h Entries for the Intramural Bas- '1 -~ i Th. d v· f ·y . ' war e ' : . ros -ltetball Tournament must be ln the : I \la:rnet s : lr ' ·. ICtory 0 ear ·For FootbaU Duty ~~~~~~~~~ 1 N~~.x 17.no~he 1 at~~mst~~~. ___ ., 1-equested to submit a roster of the Colltinentals Stage Hard 'Fight, Unable to Crack Sta'lwart Eighteen membet·s of the Class of I P_laye•s ex,pected to be used con- Union Defense; Bothwell, Ciesinski, Balch All Score 1942 were awarded theit· class nu- 1 ststently. metals ror participa tiou in fresh- · :Foul-Shooting Contt'st i -------- . i man football, Pr·ofessor J. Harold Contestants ma-y attempt 25 .free STAT·ISTICS OF GA-ME u. Fi-rst .downs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 Yards gained rushing ..... 377 Yards gained passing. .. .. 62 Passes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 .Passes com pl'eted . . . . . . . . 5 Passes intercepted by. . . . . 2 .Punts ............. , , . , , . . 3 Avet:age distance of punts 33 Runbaclt of .punts, kickoffs 59 Fumbles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Ball lost fumbles 2 ·PenaJtie~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Yards lost penalties ...... 15 H. 14 118 114 30 9 0 4 29 49' 2 2 1 Ji5 Satutday, Nov. 12--With a per- fect fan day as a backdrop and a capacity crowd as an added touch of colm·, Union and Hamilton met today on Alexander Field to ring down the curtain on the current foo!·bali season of both traditional rivals. The finale was run .off -w-ith- out mishap: Union lived up to ad- vanced notices and trounced the Continentals, 21 to 0. Hamilton ptovided the necessary stvuggle Registers First on Pass Wittner announced today. Sixteen: t•hwws at any time between 10:30 men were honored for active play- a. m. and 1:30 p, m. daily, Compe- ing while two candidate manage1·s Htion wiU continue through Tues- also received recognition. day, December 20. A group must The yearli-ng team came through_ have at least 10 men competing in: it.s season with an outstanding rec- order to gain its entrance points. or·d, winning all but one game of However, the total of the 15 high- Races 78 Y ds. for 2nd Score the f0ur on the schedule. The men • est successful members of a group ball to midfield. Hammerstrom, on a spinner, gained 15 ya-rds to the Hamilton 35, just before· the first period ended. The Dutchmen were forced .to ·Irick out of danger in the opening ADAM CIESINSKI, C 1 who received their numerals per-' will count. · formed exceptionally well and are Bowling Tournament all' regarded as good varsity rna- col- tet:al for next year. Eligibility-Any student in Those who were awarded their lege is eligible to participate. num<:rals are: Robert K. Baker·, I'oints-A team will be given 40 I Albany t(._apU; Ross Christiansen.·. entrance points for competing. Cleveland, Ohio; Robert B. Davis, However, a team or gr0up must Nutley, N. J.; Abraham B. Dors- actually bowl at least 2/3 of its I man, Jr .. Albany; Edward Eustice, game schedule to acquire these en- Flushing; Moey L. F r i e d m an, trance points. Sixty additional Schroon Lake; Stewart E. Gold-. points will be distrib:uted among b!a t, Schenectady; Robert P. Hal- the group~ for competing. : cenbeck Hoffmans· William D There wt_ll be no forfetts, as each I ' Hill. l·~lton; James's. Hillick, Ful~ '.absentee will be given 1~0 for each ton; Rebert K. Killian, Hartford, game total. A_ team w!ll be co~­ Conn.; John A. Marsicano, Man- posed of any .f1ve men on a_ groups hassett; Thomas Parsons, Leonia, mster. Substitutes ~ay be mserted N. J.; Donald F. Quigley, Cox- as frequently as destred, but a_ p_er- sackie; Bundy Shaw, Troy; L\e son who starts a game must flmsh Sherman, Forest Hills; Frank s. tha~ parttcular game. Thyne, Jr., Johnstown (l\fanagec·> _Time and Place-The match~s and Charles P. Royce, Ticonderoga. Wlil be contested ?n Reuters c Manager> 1 Alleys, located on Clmton Street. 1:~0 p. m. each Wednesday and I :n;n u es of the second quarter, Hamil ton taking the ball on its own 12. The Continentals started to ~ave in this period and, in a series ~ __ 0 _ ___ 1 . The games will start promptly at Inter-Class Lacrosse Thursday afternoons. Begins Tomorrow P. M. League Schedules-- The teams , will be divided into two leagues, as The annual inter-clru;s lacrosse i was done last year. However, the round-robin rivaJI·y between the two teams finishing first in each four classes of students will get league will enter the .playoffs for I undetway tcmorrow afternoon when the cnampionship. A cup will be the freshmen meet the sophomor.es awarded to the winner. · un Library Fie:a at three o'clock. The league lineups will appear 1 of six first downs interrupted only by an exchange of fumbles, had worked the ball to the Garnet 27. Th's down-field j2unt was fea ured -~ by the running of Erickson and by the· passing combination of Char- ley Keane to Jack Williams. JIM BOTHWELL, E and made a much better showing t!1an the score indicates, malting 14 fir·st downs to 19 for the Gar- net. Captain Jake Amazon, Billy Thomas, \Sumpty\ Irish, Ray Lewis, and Don Henderson, all seniors, played their last inter- collegiate game for the alma mater in today's contest. Hammerstrom Is Perfect lt was an all-sophomore touch- down afternoon, with Jim Both- well, Adam Ciesinski, and Dick Balch each crossing the Hamilton goal once. Sam HarnmerstroiD had a 1.000 average for conversions, kicking three placements in as many at:empts. Gus Erickson, play- ing his final game tor Coach Art Winters, was the outstanding con- tributor for the Buff and Blue, time after time (he Gat·net sec- ondary being called upon to bring him down. Bothwell Tallies First Union received the opening kick- off, and iinmediately set to the task of pushing over a score. Fred Patrie returned the boot from the Union 5 to the Union 38. With Hammerstrom and La-rry Brock- myer- carrying the ball, Union rolled up four first downs to the Hamilton 13. Captain Jake Ama- zon caught a short pass from Sammy to put the ball on the Con- tinental 8. Sammy then faded and threw a pass to Jim Bothwell who was cutting deep in the end zone, Jim catching the ball on the run for Union's first score. Hammerstrom's conve1·sion was good. Hamilton took the kickoff and combined passes and runs to work the ball to the Garnet 35 before being forced to punt to Brock- royer on his own 15. A short while later Freddy Patrie, on a wide end skirt from a reverse, carried the Ciesinski Romps 78 Yards With foutth down on the Union 24, the Continentals attempted an- other aerial. This time, however, Adam Ciesinski, who had just re- placed Bob Molloy at center, in- tetcepted the heave on the Union Battles Way Across Goal DJOK BALCII, QB 22 and sprinted toward the Hamil- ton goal. Aided by the beautiful down-field blocking of Patrie, Johnny Krull and Ray Lewis, Adam went over the goal standing up. Again Sammy Hammerstrom converted. Union then kicked off to Hamilton. After three incornpleted passes. the upstaters punted, Brock- royer returning the boot to mid- field. Union moved the ball to the visitors' 20 before losing the ball oh downs. Hamilton had just com- pleted a toss to its own 40 as the half ended. Union received the kickoff in the (Continued on Page 4} Bellevue Quality Bakery 2625 Broadway Phone 4-6248 BREAD - ROLLS - PASTRY CLOVERLAND CREAMERY Pltone 2·4265 FOR PROMPT SERVICE Lower Fuel Costs with 'blue coal' Try Joiln Barcley Service 919 State St. Flour, Feed. Seeds, Fertilizer, Coke, Fuel Oil HIRAM J. McKAIN CO. :JOIJ-814 Union St. Phone 4-4448 Thursday after noon the juniot s along with the league schedules- in &.nd seniors will clruoh for upper- Friday's issue of Tlw ConcordiPn- class h0no1 s. Finals en Saturday. sis, -------------------------- FOOT ... BALLlJHOO From one extreme to the other, such is the way this \flooey\ prog- nostigation column goes. For, while rejoicing arter the game Saturday afternoon to the fact that his gridders had clo·sed their campaign with victory, Head Coach \Nels\ :N'itchrnan returned home late that after- noon to find himself thoroughly deposed as co-leader of this space. As a watter of fact, Nitchman found himself the selector of but four grid- iron outcomes, while the other four :rna;terminds were rejoicing to their ability to choose five correct t·esults. So, now we find Ed. Chief Fred Eequembourg the sole possessor of first place honors with 38 out of 54, Nitchman tied with ''Ott\ Law- rence in second position with 37 out of 54, Sports Ed. Jerry Smith hold- Ing down the third slot wit!: 35 out .of M, and \]Juke\ Nelson still in the \Ratskeller\ with 30 out of 54. We're still i.oo lazy to figure out the actual percentages, waiting for at least one freshman to try out for the \Concordy\ staff, so that we can put him right to work. Results-California, 20; Oregon, 0 rea~y for everyone). Navy, 14; Columbia, 9 there's where \Nels\ slipped up). Pitt, 19; Nebraska, 0 <bulls-eye all around). Princeton, 20; Yale, 7 (what a chorus of ouch-es). Duke, 21; Syracuse, 0 <even \Duke\ had this on the nose). Northwestern, 0; Michigan, 0 tties not counted). Notre Dame, 19; Min- nesota, 0 <a snap for all except \Ott\ and \Duke\). Cornell, 14; Dart- mouth, 7 tbut \Ott\ and \Duke\ came right back to snatch this one out of the fire), Composite Records Varsity Football-Won, 3. Tied, 1. Lost, 3. Points scored, 115. Op- ponents scored, 83. l Season corn- plel.ed.) Varsity Cross-co.untry - Won, 5. Lost, 1. Points scored, 117. Oppon- ents scored, 213. lSeason com- pleted.) Freshman Football-Won, 3. Lost, 1. Points .scored, 38. Opponents scored, 24. <Season completed.) Freshman Cross-country-Won, 1. Lost, 1. Points .scored, 52. Oppon- ents scored, 58. (Season completed.) Low Price Student Bundle American A-1 Laundry 1030 BARRETT ST. Just Off UniDn When Eating Do Not Forget MODERN DINER Cor. Veeder Ave. & State lnterested in Schenectady] Interested in UNION MAURICE B. GRAUBART T ht! lay Strut .}e'l1)e ler 166 JAY STREET Watch and Jewelry Repairing a Specialty PARKER and WATERMAN PENS CONNELLY BROTHERS DAIRY, Inc. 1858 HamburCJ St. P H 0 N E 2·0 9 1 6 LOUIS WASSERMAN QUALITY MEAT MARKET 354 Broadway Phones 4-3364, 4·3365 633 State St.. 226 Not+ Ter. 204 Union St. 1 009 Chrisler · Ave. PHONE 6-3456 Five Seniors .Playing in Final Gatne Saturday EMPIRE THE STUDENTS LAUNDRY THE PHONE 4-6514 301 Green Si. ~app~ DESSERT-OF-THE-MONTH OCTAGON ICE CREAM CAKE Serves Four 35c: at your FRO-JOY ICE CREAM STORE Sun11n~r h'ish, up~r left; Ray Lewis, upper right; Billy Thoma.s, lower left; Don Hen- den•on, low<>r t·l~ht; Captain Jack ~mazon, belo-w left. C.,S. MOODY OPTOMETRIST Eyc.s Examined, Glasses Fitted 115 B'way Telephone 6-5747 T\hree Doors from State St. You too will like the rich flavor of ARISTOCRAT MILK CALL IIELLEVUE DAIRY PHONE 4a2553 Fre~ Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market OUR MOTTO \Quality Service Satisfaction,. 59.8 B•way - For Better Values Schenectady Engraving Co. 147 JAY ST. ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORDIENSIS GAZETTE PRESS

?age Four Fraternities Show S • eiL f u • I p1n1 : or mons Last ·Game of Yea 1 r Phi G-amma Delta Takes Priz:e for Originality By Renting Live Cow The casual observer, had he seen Union's fair campus for his :first time last Saturday afternoon, would have concluded that the Dutchmen I ivP on 11· for thP Hamill on game and that to literally slaughter the Uuff and Blue was their· only arnbi· tion. Signs galore with massive \Beat Hamilton\ slogans, a das-. tardly effigy, a living cow-all of t he:se were displayed by Union's more ingenious fraternities, adding more color to an already colorful display. Phi Gamma Delta was by far the most original. They went so far as to hire a sturdy cow from a local dair·y upon which they hung a huge sign reading. \This is no bull.\ Next to the docile quadruped, they painted a huge facsimile of the \Concordien::;is\ with banner headline,; actually shouting to the wol'ld \Union 21. Hamilton 6.\ When· t·he game was finished, the Phi Gams sped to their domicile and changed the erring six to a la1 ge goose egg. A straw effigy of a football play- er, t·eprescnting the Ham.ilton eleven, was hanged by his neck from two trees in fl'Dnt of the Delta Upsilon house. Dr. Frederick Bron- ner, of history department fame, had a small sign hung from one of the upper floor windows of his home which read \Union 60. Hamil- ton 0.\ It i::; suspected his off· spring tve1·e behind the whole plot. As far· as can be found out, the Delta Phis started the idea of showing written expression of their spirit. In short time. they were followed by the aforementioned Phi Gams, D U.'s. Bronner family, as well as the Kappa Nus, Chi Psis, Phi Delis, Psi U's, and Sig Phis. ~- - o~ Union Ends Season With 21-0 Victory < Contmued from Page 3) third quarter, Patrie ret Ul'ning the ball to the Union 17. With Patrie, Brockmyer, and Hammerstrom al- ternating in toting the bait, the Garnet registered five successive first downs and traveled to the Hamilton 18, whe1·e the Continen· tals staged resistance. Hamil ton gained but two yards in three run- ning plays·. so t !ticked to mid· field. Brockmeyer carried baclt the pigsltin to the Hamilton 38. On the next \ry, however, a Union fum- ble was 1·ecovered by Hole of Hamilton. A few plays later the Continentals punted, Billy Thomas charging to the Garnet 38. 'Three running plays placed the ball at midfield. Hammerstrom then tossed a pass to B1ockmyer who was hauled down on the Hamilton 33 as the third session ended. Balch Completes On the initial play of the fourth quarter the Dutchmen resorted to a \Statue of Liberty\ play, Ham- merstrom to Vannier, for a gain of nine yards. Hammerstrom then plunged for a first down on the Buff und Blue's 23. On the ne><t play, Sammy heaved an aerial to Dick Balch, sophomore quarterback who had replaced Jake Amazon, and Balch battled his way over the goal for Union's final touchdown. And once again Hammerstrom con- verted for the extra point. From this point on both coaches substituted freely and frequently, affording ine><perienced sophomores an opportunity to prove tlleir met- tle. Twice in the closing minutes of the game, Hamilton executed for· ward passes. the receivers of which wheeled and threw lateral passes. The first one of these plays car- l'ied from midfield to the Dutch- men 18. The Garnet held, however, and tool< the ball on downs four plays later. The second of these plays can-ied from the Hamilton 36 to the Union 33, but once against the Union defense was strengthen- ed, and Hamilton was again forced to relinquish the ball on downs. Guy 1-loliicone, Garnet sophomore back, had just run the ball fr·om the Uni()n 30 to the Union 45 as the game ended. L. V. P. SUMMARY: U11ion Hamilton LE Bothwell Remis LT Burns . . . Hole LG Kmll . . . Salmela C Molloy . . . . . . . . . . . . . Shappell RG Irish ................. Gould RT Baker . . . . . . . . . . . Fancher RE Lewis Gardner QB Captain Amazon Petronio LH Brockmyer . . . Williams RH Patrie ................. Sisson FB Hammel'Strom . . . . . . Erickson Score by l'eriods Union , ............ , 7 7 0 7-21 Hamilton ........... 0 0 0 @- 0 CALENDAR Today Schenectady Bureau of Munici· pal Research -Dinner, Hale House, 7:00 p. m. Practice D e b at e - Union vs. Skidmore, Old Chapel, 7:30 p.m. Basketball Officials' Meeting- - Trophy Room, Gymnasium, 8:00 p. m. Wednesday DaUy Assembly-Speaker, Her- belt B. Grant, '39, Memorial C'hapel, 1n·nn a m American C h e m i c a I Society Meeting- ·Chemistt·y Labm:a- tory, 8:00 p. m. Speaker, Prof. Charles A. Kraus, Brown Unive1·sity, President-elect of the American Chemical So~ city, \The In!luence of Con- stitutional Factor:; on the Properties of Elec:rolytes.\ PI eceded by dinner at Ha:le House. Thursday Daily Assembly -Speaker, Pro- fes;;or Chal'le:; A. Kraus, Pres- ident-elect of the American Ch.,mical Society, Memorial Chapel, 10:00 a. m. Faculty Men's Club and Sche- nectady County Alumni As- sociation, dinner mePting, Hsle House, 6:30 p. m. Py1 amid Club Meeting Silli- man Hall, 7:30p.m. Theta Nu Epsilon Meeting, Dr·. Ligun':o Office, 7:30 p. m. Friday Daily A::;sembly - Recital, Dz·. 8. A. Tidmarsh, Memorial Chapel, 10 00 a. m. THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1938 Van Valkenbu~rg, '36 Two-Day Deans' :New Ass~ista1nt Confe:r,ence Closed · to industry but also to the other major activities of life.\ Civ,il Engineers To Hold Meeting' Mrs. Roo-sevelt Spealts Declaring that young people On Geology Staff Saturday :Noon \must ·know the whole commu- The Union College Student Cha·P- nity ' if they are to \Uve properly,\. ter of the American Society of Civil Mrs_ :Rooseve].t Friday afternoon Engineers will hold its. November To Aid Professor Smith In Extensive Study Of Fluorescent !Minera s <Editor's Note: This is an- other in the series of articles concerning new .faculty mem- bers.) Alvin M. Van Valkenburg, re- . ccntly appointed assistant in Ge- ology, is the fourth addition to the college facul:y of men having grad- uated from Union. Mr. Van Valken· burg was graduated in 1936 with a Ba~helor of Science degree ai1 con- tinued his studies at the Univer·- sity of Colorado whet·e he received a Master's degl'Ce ·in the spring of this year. In wmkmg for his dactor's degree which he hopes to be able to study for at Harvard, Mr. Van Val'ken- burg has been assisting Professor Edwald S. C. Smith. In the near future they are planning extensive resea1ch work with the fluorescence of minerals. Professor Smith and Mr. Van Valkenburg arc plannii~g this work in connection with and as an addition to the work the for- mer comple'ed in cooperation with Mr. William H. Parsons last Au- gust on this same subject. (Continued fi•om Page 1) urged the deans to ••start tllem off· .meeting on Wednesday evening, instituticns, So far om· faith has with proper answers to their ques• been ju:stJ.fi.ed.\ ions.\ November 16 at 7:45 in the \i.brary Tugwell's Address \T.he degree of brightness of the· of the Civil Engmeenng Building Dr. Rexford Guy Tugwell, head .future will be ·determined by the\ Harvey 0. SchermerhoJ,n, Commis- of the New York City Planning ability of the older generation to sioner of Canals and Waterways of Commis~ion. believi's that a new be open minded to keep away from New York State and ·also Chair- 1 philo::;ophy of government \must be 'feat·s and prejudice, stay free in Ch thought and action and remain man of Student apte1•s in the ldopted.\ tolerant both to new ideas and to- Mohawk-Hudson Section of the Tugwell, former Under· Secreta.ry ' s c E '11 b th k r at wa1·d yrHme: people's del\eloping \'-· • · '·· WI e c spca c · of Agriculture in the present ad- ~ th\ t· All t d t · 'I .period.\ · lS mee mg. s u ell. CIVJ. · en- ministration, made the statement gineers, freshmen through seniors, in an address ·Friday night. Dr. Francis Bradshaw, dean of are invited. Reft·eshments will be In calling for the adoption of a otudents at the University of North serv.ed at the close of the· meeting. new philosophy in government, ::!arolina, said in hts address: Tugwell declared: \Although American col·lege and \We must plan and execute our university system has been brought governmental ·organization with no into bei.ng primarily to tl'a·in youth less efficiency than we plan and 'for leadership in building of a maintain our industrial organiza- ' dem0c1 atic Commonwealth on this lions.\ continent, the colteges and uni· He said that ·industry had \de- versities in general had been un· veloped tt emei)dously\ in the .past democratic in their atmosphere, or- 25 yea·rs because of \wholeheatred .ganization and effect. app'Iication of principles of exact-. \Even the ,public school system, i'. ude.\ . although public in support and in \Since government is more than name, is frequently not public in its a mere ,police power,\ Tugwell operations, since g1eat numbers of sa·id, \and is ·in fact a major fac- children do not have their needs tot· in our economics, we must go· served in the educational program, back to the original concept of and are either permanently re- 'political economy' and remedy the .larded, maladjusted, or forced out, present 'crisis,' not by doing some- and since philosophy of the schools SUI'TS CLEANED .. :PRESSED TWO SUITS Cleaned and Pressed Call for and. Deliver \For Students Who Care\ thing for the world, but by doing is frequently aristocratic, and their 1 ,----- ::;omething for ourselves.\ · organiz&tions such as perpetuate I G&G CLEANERS He warned the deans that \if the class control ·of American thought.\ Mr. Van Valkenbmg explained next generation af youth faces the Mrs. Rooseve'lt wa.s intt·oduced at that he hopes to continue his same 'crisis\ you are contending the opening luncheon-meeting of studies in geology, especially along with, it will be largely because you the conference •by Dr. Dixon Ryan the lines of igneuus geology which have failed to prepare them for a Fox. Fol'lowing her add,I·ess she 1 i:s concerned with molten rocks and [concept of life in which principles visited Glenridge Sana:orium in DYERS 12 Elm St. Phone 3-1775 -~ 1 :th~ei~r~fo~r~m~a~t~io~n:·----------------~~o~f~p~r~e~c=i:sr~·o~n~a~I~·e~a~p~p~li=e~d~n~o~t~o~n~l3~·~t~h~e_:ri~·t~y~.-------------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - -~-- Copy!ight 1938, LrGGET1' & MYERS ToBACCO Co, ... is the word ~llful is the word that best describes Chesterfield's can 't-he-copied blend It is the RIGHT COMBINATION of mild ripe home-grown and aromatic Turkish •.. the world's best cigarette tobaccos .•. that makes Chesterfield different from all other cigarettes. • • • And it's the skillful blending of these tobaccos with each other ... for flavor, for aroma, for :tnildness and for taste, that has made Chesterfield the cigarette in which millions of smokers find a new pleasure in smoking. esterfield the blend that can't he copied ... a HAPPY COMBINATION of the world'S best cigarette· tobaccos c T ,_. __ . Z-511 Vol. I Pro~ To A< rivalr: the S1 was a been co unci meets The Yunich c<.ntest. school a push· this fa cipate i the wh• be req' test. An will be of the • ketbaH ary. A game < schedul war is end of be to 1 men. Cc If th the fir Stud en comper sophorr linquisl 'Howev• victori< the exi freshm stric,tly much 1 The will be able d games tent of involvi· under dent C A p< in dete contest campo~ tions: 25 pair and 10 Thew De~ To j InC Phi Ag In Unto Univer bate c New unican be rep '40, an This curren Old Cl the rei be a r The been j in pn de bali evenin bate ' lar w1 Jane spoke \Reso shoulc Great Clark No .de K1au~ as ch: The been work, by B ager, nounc some which l:>ates ous y

Civil of hair- the the r at en- be g. II 775 s Marks Come Out Tomorrow z.511 •• ,, StS Con.cordy Grid Clash Tomorrow Vol. LXII., No. 18 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1938 PRICE FIVE CENTS Prog:ram Adopted by Student Council , Fi~st Day Covers T ·f .. . 1 . . I ( . · · W 1H Be Sent to o .. oster · nterc .. ass ornpet1t1on :Many Applicants j ft~p'resentatives ~f Six Colleges Meet I To Protest Against N~w N:U:i Outrages Pla:n Drawn Up by David L. Yunich lm~ludes Freshman-Sophomore Lacrosse Game, Pushball Fror:n 4-5 States , Many Obstad·es Contest, Swimming Meet, and Tug-of-War .Seven Countries Also Among Those Who A.sk A definite pt·ogram to foster freshman-sophomore class For First Cancellaf,ion rivalry has heen approved by the Executive Committee of • . A total of 2,100 requests, ol'lgt- the Student Council and will go into effect immed.iately, it nating in 45 states, Washing·ton,, was announced yesterday. A list of class competitions has· D. c. Hawaii, Bel~iurn, Canada, b D 'd L y · h , 39 'd f h Cuba. Czecho:;lovakta, Germany, been drawn up y av1 • umc , pres1 ent o t· e·:and Hungary, have been received council, providing for participation of the classes in various :by Union College for the com- 'memoralive first day covers which meets and contests. . he college will issue on November The schedule, .as outlined by~- -- -- --· ·---~~ · 22 in honor of Chester A, Arthur, a' Yunich, calls for two interclass member of the class of 1848, who c<.nteste in each season during the Noted Chemist Lectures ; became the 21st Pt·esidmt of the . school year. A lacrosse game and Before Chemical Society United States. a pushball contest are planned for Through an arrangement with this fall. Class teams will parti- Dr. Charl<:s A. Kraus, presi- Edc T. King, '05, of Washington, cipate in the fiist mentioned, while dent-elect of the American D, C .. it is planned to ship the new the whole force of both classes will Chemical Society, delivered a issue of the Art hut' postage stamps be required in the push-ball con- lecture last Wednesday evening to Schenectady in time fot' first day test. to the Eastern New York Sec- cancellation here. Milton M. Enzer·, An inter-class swimming meet tion of that society in the But- '29, is in charge of \servicing\ the will be held before the beginning terfield Chemical Laboratory. cove 1 ·s. Group Considers Many Methods of Solving Pressing Problem Twenty- two representatives of six: Capital District colleges, meet- ing y.esterday aftemoon in H:ale House upon the invitation of THE CONCORDIENSIS and the Un.ion College Student Council, after dis- cussing for three hours methods by which American colleges may help . to halt Nazi persecution of Jews and other German minorities, au- thorized a regular delegated c<Jm- miltee to determine student opinion upon the subject and to formulate some specific program. of the Christmas recess, and a bas- Dr. Kraus, who is director of ketbaH game will JJe held in Janu- Chemical Research at Brown ary. A Tug-a-war and a baseball University, ;,poke on \The In- game or track meet complete the fluence of Constitutional Fac- sched:ule in the spring. The tug-o- tors on the Properties of Elec- Stamp Club Assists Members or the Schenectady Stamp Club are assisting the col- lege in pt·eparing the covers. It re- quired nearly a weelt to arrange for imprinting the special cachet which the college is pmviding. This will :be a photo-engra. ved picture of the historic College Dormitory in which Chester Arthur lived while a student at Union, together with a caption briefly mentioning the most llnpoi'\an t achievements of Arthur. ThP exPr.utive council of the gJ'OUll of students who gathered here yf'stf'rday to consider wars and means of registering a protest against Hitler. Thf' cotmcil is composed of one representative from eat-h of tile participating colleges and two fJ•om Union. Although they declared tllein- selves unable to at this time offi- cially represent their respective- in- stitutions, the assembled students from Skidmore, Russell Sage, Col- lege of St. Rose, R. P. I., Siena and Union thoughtfully considered .sev- eral pvoposals for combatting :Hit- lerian att·ocities and recorded. In straw votes their opinions of twQ of them. war is definitely scheduled for the trolytes.\ end of ApriL He:re numbers will Dr. Kraus was feted before be to the advantage of the ft·esh- the meeting at an informal din- ncr which was held in Hale House. men. Compensation to Winners If the fres!tmc11 w1n two out of the first three c<>mpetitions, the Student Council wiH detet•mine the compensation to be paid by the sophomore class in the form of re- linquishing several freshmen rules. \However if the sophomores are victorious in two out of the three, the existing mles imposed on the freshmen will be enforced more stric.tly, and discipline will become much more stringent. The officers of both the classes will be consulted to determine suit- able dates for the contests. The games are to be judged by compe- tent officials-and the competitions involving the whole classes will be under the supervision of the Stu- dent Council. A point system will be utilized in determining the winners of the contests, A 100 point total will be composed of the following propor- tions: 35 points for the tug-a-war; 25 points for the push-ball contest and 10 points .for each class game.· The winner will be proelaimed at <Cohtim.:ed on Page 4) ---o~--- Debating Season To Open Tonight In Old Chapel Philomatheans Debate Against St. Lawrence In Opening Contest Play Production Class Gives First Performance Today 'The Man with the Flower In His Mouth,' 'The First And the Last' Are Plays The curtain will rise tonight at 8 o'clock on the first of this season's presentations by the class in Play Production. ·~,wo plays will be of- fered, the first of which will be \The Man with the Flower in His Mouth,\ by Luigi Pirandello, This play presents a character study of a man with a painful and incurable malady, and ~ttempts to depict his attitude tow~d the small common occurences of life as contrasted with those of a well man, the nor- mal and unimaginative individual. The second play, \The First and the Last,\ by John Galsworthy, is· a longer play and tells the story of two brothers, one a successful law- yer, and the other a p'Jayboy. Here Galsworthy trtes to show 1he noble qualities of the wa~rel, and the weak and selfish side of the reput- able man LaboratOI'Y bourse Play Production is a laboratory course in the interpretation of the dtama for which regular academic credit is given. The c·ourse is an elective for juniors and seniors and Uni'on will meet St. Lawrence embraces the principles of acting, University tonight in a varsity de- directing, scene ai)d costume de- bate on ·the topic, \Resolved that signing, stage lighting and mechan- New York state should adopt a ics, make-up, and play-writing. Mr. unicameral legislature.\ Union will Edward L. Carroll conducts the be represented by Willard Malkan course. Those interested in the '40, and William Robbins, '39. theatre are invited to attend the This is the first debaie of the performances to which no admis- current year, and will be held in sian is charged and no formal invi- Old Chapel at 8 p. m. It will be of tation is issued. the regular platform style, and will The casts of the plays are as fol- be a non-decision contest. lows: The Philomath<ean Society has \The :\Inn with the !<'lower in hio been meeting for the past month ,\loulh\ (tt·anslate<l from W1e Italian hy . Arthur J.ivingRton) in preparation for the Gll.commg The Man with the !~lower ........ . debaling season, and on Monday ............. Hernan! s. 1->mu,~. '3B evening engaged in a practice de- The l'ommuler .. D\ugla\ t'. :llurphy, ·:;n bate with SkidmCJre at the regu- :-;r~ne: A \af<\ nenr lhP \I' ninn \The I<'il·st and t ht· Lngt\ lar weekly meeting of the society. Keith Durrant, K. c ................ . Jane Grey and Ann Wadhams ....... , ....... David T. \\'ilder, 'to spoke for Skidmore on the topic, LatTv Ilnrrant 'ilif.l brother . _ .. _ ... , ..... ·_ ..... Jay P. l)ayton, '·to \Resolved that the United States Wa-nda .......... , ~Irs. Tudor Deming should adopt an alliance with Srene J .. -Kcith'e Study, :-:ovemlwr Great Britain.\ Donald Haigh and f·ke!le If - \·a.n<la.'\ H.onm, thE' next ow- ning, Clark Elsmere debated for Union. :-;, ..... , 111-T:he o&me, Lwu lliOIILho hctel. No .decision was given and Bernard o K1ause of the Philomatehans acted A. I. E. E. Hears Alexanderson as chairm~n. The officers of the society have On Transmission of Power been making plans for the year's Dr. E. F. W. Alexanderson of the work, and according to a statement General Electric Company, spoke by Bernard Krause, '39, eo-man- before the Union Chapter of the A. ager, the sche·d ule wil'l be an- I. E. E. at their second meeting of nounced sl)ortly .. It is hoped that the year, on Tuesday night. He dis- some arrangements can be made cussed the \Transmission of Power which will enable some of the de-· Over· Long Distances\ and ill us- bates to be broadcast as in previ- trated his lecture with slides on the ous years. subiect. Dr. Fox D·elivers Second Lecture In Series at NYU I Concordy Boards to Clash I On Gridiron Tomorrow This will be tite first stamp in the new presidential series which will have a \first day cancellation\ any- I where outside of Washington, D. C. To Give Third Next Monday~ His Theme Is \Yankees and Yorkers\ Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox, president List of Statt\s of Union and of the New York The stales irorn w:uch request,; Stc.tc Historical Society, delivered have come for the commemorative his second in a series of six lee- covers ate: Alabama, Arizone, tu1es to be given at New York At· kansas, California, Color ado, 1 University on the James Stokes Connecticut, Delaware, F I o r i d a, Lectures Tuesday. The topic for his Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, 1 speech was \The English Crowd Iowa, Kansas, Kentuclty, Louisiana, On.\ The theme of the series is Maine, Maryland, :Massachusetts, \Yankees and Yorkers.\ Michigan. Minnesota, Mississippi, Monday Dr. Fox inaugurated Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, New the series when he compared the Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mex- two personalities of New York and ico, New York, Nmth Carolina, New England. He, however, felt North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, the need to establish the fact that Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South New York State is a section as well Carolina, Tennessee, Tex:as, Utah, as a state,\ and said that such a Vermont, Virginia, Washington, \claim can be well sustained on his- West Virginia, Wisconsin, and ·toriC'al and geographical as well as Wyoming. on preEent economic and social --------o--~--- _ ground and certainly it would be obvious if we subtracted first the variegated popuiation of the port- Cl e tropolis.\ Dr. Tidmarsh to Present Program Featuring Bach \New England,\ Dr. Fox said, \has had its peculiat· tradition Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh will pre- Jai gely by the power of the New sent the following program at his England conscience, which has col- organ recital Sunday afternoon at · ored taste and practice in every 4 o'clock in the Memorial Chapel. phase of social life, not only within I ·l'hn,' le in ,\ :.\Unor. .l'esar !•'ram k its own houndaries, but to some ex- ! I i'iymphnny in ll .IIi nnr· -Til<· ·I'n- tent throughout the entire coun- linbhrd Symphnny.Fra.lJZ :-;,hubetl try. Its very arrogance has been a Ill Tot·• .nla allcl Fugut' in I> :\fiunr, sout·ce of power. Jnlltl Sehru.:ti~tl Hac·h Air for the ll. l'tring, In deft•nding hls contention thar .luhn S<>hlLSIIaJI Blll'h New York State has a distinct cor-· F\iuale flflrn Tri(' ~OTJ:lUl hi E por ate personality, he continued, !o'lal· . . . . . . . . . . . l<a<·ll Sinfunia Ft·om l'a11tat Xn. ~9 -\\ e \personalities are likely to be self- Thank Thee· t:nd.. . Ha<\!1 conscious; the persistence of state Next Sunday there will he no re- spirit may argue the persistence cital, since it i:; dul'inr; t·he Thanks- ot ~tate personality. Unity of state giving recess. t Continued on Page 4) .Students Stage Standup Strike; Scab Smith Must Remain Silent Blood will flow and teeth will gnash, and a keg of beer will be at stake when the senior board of the Concordy engages the junior staff in a long awaited challenge match of touch foot- ball on the lawn in back of Silliman Hall on Saturday aft- ernoon.. Latest reports from both camps show that each will have a powerful team ready for action. When last seen the seniors were concluding a hard work- out about 3:00 a. m. today un- der the flashy direction of \Slingin' Sam\ Hequembourg and \Shipwreck\ Walter in the Concordy office. The juniors had taken to their beds declar- ing that any undue exertion might spoil their thirst, which they are confident of satisfy- ing at the seniors' expense on Saturday night. Red Cross Drive Gathers Impetus As Students·Join Athletic Department First I 001o Group Under A C. Lawrence The first day's canvassing for the annual Red Cross membel'Ship Jr;ve on the Union College campus resulted in six faculty groups and two student groups· contributing a total of $61.57, Milton M. Enzer, so- licitor for the campus, announced this morning. The goal for this year is $300, he pointed out, and it is e..\':pected that by Monday, the total will be 1eached. The Department of Athletics and Physical Education, for which Arthur C. Lawrence, is the roll call worker, was the first to have 100% contributions from its personnel. ~~----~--~~~~-- ---- - Old gym Hall, of which Stanley Professor Bennett's class in La- bor Problems ptoveu iasl Friday that it has not studied in vain. After spending a week considering strikes, the class staged one of its· :>wn. It a'll started when Dr. Ben- nett announced that there would be a quiz on the morning before dance weekend. The class immediately went into a huddle and came out with a new species of protest-- a stand-up strike. The students refused to sit down until Professor Bennett com- plied with their demands that there would be no quiz. Only two students sat, and they were imme- diately booed enthusiastically. The scabs were Herbert, Cornell and Jerome Smith. After considerable mediation, a compromise was reached according to which the quiz would be given, but class was lo be dismissed im- mediatPiy thf'reafter. ThP agree- ment was carried out to the letter, and the class departed to enjoy a carefree weekend. At the next meeting of the class on Monday, Professor Bennett re- viewed the proceedings from the standpoint of the course, and point- ed out ways in which the class could have improved their tech- nique. When he had finished, \Scab\ Smith began to comment on the strike, but no sooner had he started 1 han the rest of the class hissed and booed him down. Dr. Bennett seemed to derive a great deal of enjoyment from the demonstration, and informed Smith that he would hear what he had to say after the class had fini:;hed. Smith, when asked for a state· ment, said, \I wasn't the only one.\ one.\ Luke is proctor, was the first stu· dent group and second among all the groups on the campus to return a 100% contribution from its resi- dents. The neutrals have made a partial contribution through their partici- pation in the chapel-assembly can- vass made this morning. In addition to the athletic depart- ment and Oldgym Hall, the follow- ing groups have contributed 100'/f: Administration building, Miss Fran- ces Travis, roll call worker; Elec- trical Engineering building, Dr. Frederick W. Grover, roll call worker; Geology Hall; Professor Edward 'S. C. Smith, roll call worker; Memorial Chapel, Dr. El- mer A. Tidmarsh, roll call worker; Silllmah Hall, Miss Marcia Goldys, roll call WOl'ker; Chemistry build- ing, Dr. Edgar K. Bacon, roll call worker. Mo,·ement !\lay Spread David L. Yunlch, president of the Union Student Council expressed the hope that if the permanent committee, which will meet for the first time Monday evening in Hale House, is able to arrive at some practical plan, the movement may be extended to all New York State colleges and possibly further. Following up the opening ve- marks of Leslie Paffrath, preslden t of the Union College Christian As- sociation, who emphasized the pos- sible importance of the gathering and pointed out the necessity of first determining opinion on the various campuses representecl,Joan Keyes, leadet· of the Skidmore Dis- cussion Group, proposed that the meeting consider a specific series ·e>f questions to carry back to t:hcir respective colleges. Boycott C()nsidered This· suggestion was accepted and the body first turned to a con- sideration .of the possibility e>f American boycott of German g()ods. After much discussion and scrme dissent a general concensus of opinion seemed to be that, while such a move would show our senti- ment to Het'r Hitler, it would prob- ably prove as ineffective as it was in the case of Japan. It was point- ed out that a partial boycott is now being tried with little success, and also th!>t an effective boy-cott would harm the German peopl€ as a whole against whom we have no grudge. A vote on the boycott plan showed 19 oposed and 3 favor- able. Next the group considered the possibility of extensively increa.sing the number of scholarships for German refugees in American col- < Continued on Page 4) 0---~ I. R. C. +o Read Papers And Hold Discussions Wednesday, Nov. 16-The Inte.r- national Relations Club at a spe- cial meeting this afternoon deeided that its progmm for the neaL· ~u­ ture will consist mainly of the reading of papers and discussion on assigne<l topics. Willard H. Mal- kan, '41, presiding at the meeting, announced that after each discus- sion period the club would a.n- nounce its official standing on the matter and determine whether any action would be taken on the topic. Tonight the IRC will discuss the Jewish pr()blem in all its aspects. It is probable that some official ac- tion will be taken by the club in eonnection with this topic. 1'he organization may petition the Stu· dent Council for additional funds with which to further Its pla.ns for the coming year and ta.ke ca.re Of obligations which have already been incurred. In the future the meetings will be. held every other Tuesda.y in Ba1ley Hall, Room 202. Views of the members will be interchanged and the opinions of the group will be announced.

Pag:e TWo THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1:8, 1938 C!lnurnr for what th~y consider is strictly a foreign NOTICE Culls From +he Press -~ II minority pl:OM-€ln. It will take a well directed Freshmen. and sophomot•es, who Thomas E. Dewey is on tlte lo-ose :I M 0 r I 0 ,,., •. and thorough ,Pl'Opaganda campaign before are planning to enter some phase aga;in battling the fo1·ces .of job- 1!:.-=============:::;;!.1-_ the mode-rn !pEace-minded American will be ·of journalism 01 ' its allied .fields in bery a-nd corruption particularly- in FOUNDED 1877 \.·1 Causa Per sa Parole /l ssai\ public relations and advertising, the Democratic ranks. Mig-ht it be Unless the American Medical As- tenl-pted to shoulder a musket for Uncle Sam are invited to join the extra-curri· pique over the loss of the 1 -eeoent sociation has ceased operations once more. The key note today is peace at_ culat· course in journalism which ,gubernatorial e l·e c ti on w b i.e h. ·thmmm·!) its members should have is sponsored by The Concordiensis t d th t f Ch 1 A · s\lit their sutmes- in wrath some an_Y cost! and conducted by M1'lton -M. Enze1•, prornp e e anes 0 ' a.t• es: · · \ Harnett, prominent Democr-at and: titne back. The -treatment they'-re ~lerniJer uf the Assodated Collegiate Press a11d dl~tributor nf the Collegiate Digest. '29. Members of the course will commissioner of motor vehc:il'es. receiving -at the ha-nds -of motion The official newspaper ·of the students of ·union College. Published Tuesday and Fridays through- out tht l'Oih~gi! year. The seC()Iild pmposition of exporting the meet this afternoon to :begin work · · t · 11 d pi'ctuJ:e -pt·od-ucers is :likely to de- since that pos1tlon was es ·a:bl!s e · Semitic peoples to some land where they publishing next •rues day's issue. -in 1924, on an indictment chmg- ptdve them of .much of their bed- ld t, If . d' This will begin an intensive period ing bribery and .corruption?' side manna. In A Ma.11 to ·Remem- COU \\eco :me a \se -mtegrate ' nat-ion of training that wm culminate in he•· a sma:ll-time -physidan proved Mr. Harnett is accused <Jf tak-, seemed to have many adherents, undoubt- thei·r elevation in February to the the entire county med-ical· organiza- Iegular staff of The Concordiensis ing bribes totalling $ 67 • 000 dUJ!Jing tion to be ignorant and incompe- ed·l.:v becausoeonl:y yesterday our Ambassador ed·l·-t,rt'al boa·rd. the last four years from a New I \\h Ci•·d I t . Edltur.lal Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Cam· pus. Telephoue. Sc-henectady, 4·0133. I'nblicntion Olflce, The Gazette Press, 334 State St.. Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4·4141 Entered al the Schenectady Post Office as Second Ciao,; l\luil l\latter. SuiJscrlption price Five cents a copy; ~3.00 a year; delivered any where in the Uui ted States. ~ York taxi company. On the bribery. tent .. n .._, e \\ e' soon o arriVe, to Engbnd, Joseph P. Kennedy, announced Candidates should report today at· ~ount Harnett faces a -possible fine· the ·hero pleads the cause of so- cialized medicine. And in Yomtg that Eng-land was willing to atlow the perse- 5 p. m. in The Concordiensis edi- of $4,000, ten years in jai-l -or hdh; Doctor Kildare an interne shows lorial rooms in Silliman Ha·ll. No while on the extortion char·ge· he Senior Board cuted Hebre'NS to settle sornewhere in its new candidates will be accepted can be sentenced for an indeteJtmi- up an eminent psychiatrist and the empire, ptdbabl,\' British Guiana o.r New after tomorrow at 2 o'clock, when nate time up to three years. 'director <Jf a large hospital. It's a Frederick W. Bequembourg ..... Editor-in-Chief Psi Upsilon House-4-8710 Max: Len ..................... Business Manager . , plot. May all th.e goldwynners die G · '[ 1. I' d th t th' the class will meet aga.m • 0 con- Certainly corruption of that na- rUIHea. ll an.y ue leVe a IS WR.S an tl·nue its work -on Tuesday's issue. b without rned-ica-1· assistance-!! ture can not be stam-ped out • e- especially ITier-itous suggestion from a hu- Desil'able qualifications which cause it is part and parcel <lf den'!.- Young Dr. K. isn't a very good manitarian point of view, because under candidates should have are: .per- ocratic government. Mr. Har-nett picture; it's overloaded with what Kappa Nu Rouse-4·7331 Robert C. Walter, Jr ......... Managing Editor l'si Upsil'On House-4·8710 Jerome Smith ................... Sports Editor Kappa Nu House-4-7331 Robet·t A. Saaf ................... News Editor forming scholastic work, especial-ly had administrative power to en- we l-ike to ·call' apron-stl'ing senti- such a phm. •the Jew would be left to live his English, with at least a B Average; force a law. It was within his .ri~b.ts ment. !Shall Dt•. Kildare J,r. sacri- OWI1 life under an ideal social and political habit of accuracy in statements; as a human being to incr-ease or flee his love of home and fireside- schel11e. wide awake curiosity about what is decrease the severity with w'hich · sell his filial soul-for the right to going on; a personality with which he administered that law as it re- benefit humanity'?) No, it isn't very 1133 Parl<wood Blvd.-4·6lo~ H. Wyman Hitchcock ............. Copy Editor lJelta Upsilon House-4-7922 l ·t 1 · a to cat'l'Y on cooperative garded particular cases. He could good, ·but it is interesting, so we John Malone ............... Circulation Manager !U91 Ke)es Ave.-·!·6931 Yet, thei'e we1·e obJ' ections ra1'sed to t·h1's ~ e sy · · work; and a desire to enter some be Influenced by personaJI f.!'i end- should worry ... problem 011 t'he g·rounds that, first, British field of journalism after college. ship. by blind prejudice; -he could Lew Ayres Is Kildare, Samuel G . d ;.r be lenient at the behest of his po- Hinds :his father, Emma Dunn his · umna an .J.~ew Guinea were both unde- Compensations for senior edi- !tical bosses or he could be ,per-· REPRESENTED FOfi NATIONAL ADVS:RTISING flY National Advertising Service, Inc. College p,.b/ishers Represenltllive t · 1 t ff ·k t mothe1·, and Lynn Car·-ver his ro- veloped and unhea:lthy locales, and secondly; 011 a s a wor ers ranges 0 ap- suaded by actual payment of <Jash mance. Lionel Ba.rryrno-re plays the proximately $300 for the editor,. 01 - other valuable gifts if h€ so de· if the l'egi()llS. could be made livable, it would with proportionate \salaries\-paid' sired. So long as he followed a crotchety old man that Lionel ha~ t f th fi ·t f d t·s· g been playing so well these many involve a tJ:'en!endous expenditure of money. ou 0 e pro 1 s rom a ver 1 m · moral code and received no m<>ney years. He also tells, confidentially revenues--for the managing editor' payment no matter how bad-1\' he· t d ·t d!• d -\ that he and Lew are ·g<ling to play 420 MADISON AVE, NEW YORK, N, Y. CHitAiiO • BOSTON \ l.OS ANG!LIS • SA.fl FRAH_c_ts_co __ Junior Editorial Board c. Hussell Deyo George L. Peck Several otbel' alternative ·measures were spar s e 1 or, news e ,or, an copy administered the law or how n:::Jllch the same roles in a whole series d d d . d . t ll' tl b t b editor. harm he caused to the pubLic i~~:~ter-: of Dr. Ki·ldare pictures which are ma e an · ' 1scusse 1n e · 1gen · · y ; u e- est he would be safe from the •len- \ I . expected to muscle in on The Lone cause of insafficient time and the dominant · tacles of a district attoi'ney's of- Ranger's territory. Won't that be Christopher M. Fahy Larry Pellettler Edwin A. Fitz, Jr. Sophomore Editorial Board Paul Bel'ker, Hichard Henyan, .John I.ewis, John l'IIilip\· ~lortimer Hobins, Robert Schuii.Jerg, Laskar Sl·~h\\'art, J ~ mes 1~;. T\\.'ining. : THE HEALTHY ANIMAL I· fice. But once he transgressed .and swell? feeling amo11g the delegates that their con- realized that he was handing out stituents s }l()uld be consulted before definite privilege and exacted a money pay- • * PAUL WHITEMAN Business Staff Hoi.Jert Eisner Jack Rabinowitz, William Coa.tes, Armand Feigenbaum, Stanley Greenstein, Andy Kay, J w-tit1 Pl~rls.tPin. .JHme:-~ Youn~. Donald Haigh. Arthur l ,a Vlt\l Issue Editor:-· ............. C. Russell Deyo Why is it that the colleg-e blotter rnent for it he became a criminal. action was ta.ken, the meeting was adjourned carries no liquor ads this year? IL is too bad, the lightning :tkom until l\londqy night. At this time two dele- The grills and tap rooms advertise the D. A.'s office has struck ·and gates f·t·oln each colleg·e will again convene lunches and sandwiches as well as Ml'. Harnett is to be publicly their specialties ... The Psi U. humiliat<:d while conuption and It has already been stated that th<l Chesterfield show would be \THE event of the season.'' It is. Anyone wh0 doesn't appreciate t~e superlative entertainment which Proctor's is providing this week- end is a zombie, a real, dead, hon- est-to-badness zombie. The band is wonderful. Assistants H. Heuyllll in Hale }{()USe to formulate a definite pro- bootlJ. was very, very wet after the jobbery continue behind tbe au- gram. Whato€ver the final outcome may be, intermission last Friday night. guf't facades of the public build- Some thoughtful soul turned on a ings. Friday, November 1~. 1935 our faith ·iil the seriousness of modern youth faucet which happened to be placed There must be plenty of other will have been restored. over the booth. What ·a happy cir- cases of corruption in New \Yorlr cumstance, eh fellows•? ... While City for instance in the I. B. T. we're talking about them, we might or the New York City Civil .Set·vice mention the two Psi U's and- the Commission of the same natu1·e of Chi Psi who were butted by the Mr. Harnett's which could be at- We can't very well list the names -of the 33 .membet'S of the .organiza- tion, but we might mention a few of the stand-outs. Joan Edwards, you're wonderful. Charley and Jack Teagarden, you're W<lnderful. AI Duffy, you're wond€rful. Rollo-on- the-drurns, you're wonderful. Paul Whiteman, you're marvelous. Mr. ·Fabian, you're a dear. M. E. A NEW ASPECT OF COLLEGE LIFE Yestet·day afternoon twenty-two delegates from six Capitol District colleges met in the Hale House Lounge to protest the persecution ()f Jewish and Catholic people in Germany by the Nazis and to consider feasible ways of alleviating the situation. As far as setting down concrete measures to base future anti- Hi tier program::; on, there was very little accomplished; but the discussion that emen- ated from the g-roup showed conclusively that college .students are intet·ested and do think in a scholarly manner on cunent events. This is unquestiona·bl;.· a healthy sign! The c1·ux of the discussion can be broken down into two extremely divergent views. Some held that the only way to solve the problem was to eliminate its cause, while the maj01·ity seemed to feel that the best solu- tion that could be arrived at was to eliminate the irritation. In other words, either :.\lr. Hitler and his Nazi friends and principles must be discarded or the Jewish people de- ported to some friendly haven, before the wol'ld can once again regain its peace of mind. The first view necessitates that dreaded word-war. For only throug-h an internal revolution or an external .show of force can Fascism be driven once and for always into the annals of the past. There are some who believ-e that sooner or later the democratic countries must declare war ag·ainst Fascism, and why not do it now while the lion of' Naz- ism is still in a weakened state? The strug- gle will be much more fierce and horrible, if the date of actual warfare is postponed until that time when Germany is nearly self-suffi- cient and ready to take on all comers with full confidence in the ultimate outcome. The ravages of the World War and the predictions of the scientists of even more drastic cata.strophies in the next are still too g-hastly fo1· the majority of the present gen- eration of college students to risk their lives STOP A.N 13 RECONSIDER ram in the pasture ea1·ly Saturday tacked by the Don Quiotic Dewey. while trying to kiss the sheep. We: just wonder what ironic fate What's the mattet·, didn't the dates chose the comparatively modestly A colleg-e education is a much sought-after thing in the world of today, we are told. Those wh() ~we denied the privileg-e always look with a certain degree of envy upon their lucky fellows who are in the process of be- coming \~d\I.cated\, while many a father and mother put off getting that new cat· in order that J ohn1w can get a college education. A stnm.ge antithesis of this fact, however, is the apparent apathy of the Union under- graduate:; when education is offered them in the fo:rm of visiting- lecturers. Some of the finest 5peakers in the country are broug-ht hen by Dr. Fox, but only a few rug-ged ii\Idi -vidualists are to be seen in the seab o.f the Old Chapel on most occasions. Such a s i h..ation is lamentable indeed, and certainly steps of some sort should be taken to cort ect i1t. Onl)' l>-nee in the last three years have there been any signs of an awakening of student i11terest in lecturers. This occurred last year ·1v:J1en the International Relations Club hrotlp; ht a series of speakers on the world pol iti~al situation to the college. Larg-e numbers of students turned out to hear these leaders in political philosophy expound their theor-ies. Now, however, it appears that this short period of enlivened interest has ended. The I. R. C. has announced that it will sponsor no more .speakers. This adi()n might be warranted if the lec- tures sponsored by the club last year had lacked student support. However, in the light of the i11terest manifested by the un- dergradnate body, it seems to us that the club has ac1:ed in the interests not of Union, but of a fe-w individuals. The new policy of the club, which will consist of reading papers and discussion of problems at meeting-s, will render .the club little more than an extra- curricular C!lass, while previously it has been a real asse-t to the college, bringing to the campus an opportunity for a more liberal education than can be attained in the class- room-Hut is, authoritative views of the world politi-cal situation from all angles. We regret to see this cessation of the only lecture S€l:ies which seemed to interest the student body and urge that the I. R. C. re- consider its action, reciprocate? ... Also, at about situated Mr. Harnett. the same time, Paul Teare and We do not mean that this cor- Jess Sherman were playing bull ruption in its more ugly manifesta- fighter with the sheep .. - Jess tions should not be criminally was the lad who, witb Andy Van- prosecuted but in its more subtle derbilt, put the big \Beat Hamil· forms it can only be cont1·olled by ~on\ sign on the top of the Library an interested and enlightened .elec- -:t:t~l.j_~ ... What p!'ominent Captain of a torate. E. C. Retariy-k Nitchman -coached winter varsity team brought his mother to the Gridiron Ball? . . . Henyan, who \swung out\ on the drums with such success when Larry Clinton was here last spring, gave a repeat performance and did a swell job with Mal Hallett's band . . Why so much shagging at the dance? Has the college gone jitterbug? ... Who was the girl at the Phi Sigma Kappa house Saturday night who did a dance in her pajamas while waving a whiskey bottle? ... The football team finally made a success of their season when they beat 1-Iamil:on. Nitch's three- year ~ecord: Games won 11, games lost 10, ties 2 ... Then there was a lady in the stands who thought the Union uniforms were so nice. They blended well with the autumn foliage ... Also there was the dele- gate to the Dean's conference who no:iced Freddy Wyatt at the luncheon. He was running around in the old Wyatt manner, resplend· ent with dark suit a.nd bow tie. \My what a handsome waiter! !\ . . . The first day cachets of Pres. Arthur are piled deslt high in the News Bureau. An official esti- mate places the number at over two thousand. This includes a sophomore who wrote a letter to himself to be enclosed in his envelope and two people in Chi- cago named June Blossom Apple and Orange Apple, J'r. . . . The Kappa Nu Outing Club's Montreal expedition is being pursued by the Canadian g o v e r n m e n t. T hey brought ·back several pairs of flashy socks which caught the eye of the customs officer. From the Labor Front The boys in Bennett's Labor Problems class went on strike last week. It seems they didn't want any quiz and the Prof. wanted to give one. Jerry Smith (remember him ?l refused to strike and at the next class when \Scab\ Smith started to recite the class booed him down. And him a Union man. We understand that certain mem- bers of the \capltalist\ class also. re- fused to strike but that Jerry was singled out as a member of the fourth estate. He Who Gets Slapped It happened on Union St. A sen- ior was driving his car at the speed of fifteen miles per hour: A car almost ran into his as he 'turned into Erie BoulEward. A sturdy lady got out and appr<Jached him. \What's the matter you bigga bum ?• You frighten my mo-:tner.\ With that she slapped him i11:1 the face. At this writing he has not yet recovered his faith in. wotnan. The H. A. 'Free translation. Fri., Flat., .Sun. & Mon. l•'retil'l• Jla•·cll- Vlrginln Bruce lu \THI<:It.J<: (illi<:S JlT HEART\ 2nd Hitl :Shm·e the love; aud heart· tt<-llc,.; of It ltundred lovely glrlsl 'UIHLIS ~CHOOI! wUh Ann Shll'ley :-4 an !lt<'Y - llaliJII llelln my Extrttl Walt lll>uey Jl irkt•Y Jl ou'e (:art<Jmi PA.LO:RAMA End Crane ·st. Scli'dy, N.Y. SUNDAY, NOV. 20th In Person G H II and His eorge . a Orchestra And Dolly Dawn And Her Dawn Patrol Adm. Men 75c., Ladies 55c SEND YOUR VACATION BAGGAGE HOME BY RAILWAY EXPRESS That's the way to vacatiom in :style -with not:hing to do but go. Just lock up your trunk and bags. and phone Railway Express. No e~tta charge- no dickering or do.tbts. One easy move. You see you:r baggage go, and can take your train with a sigh of relief. • Convenienr? 100%-and economical, too. Our rate• are low, and yon can send ·~cdllect,\ if you w-ish, same as with our \home- and-back laundry service.\ Wnen you phone, tell us the t:ime to come. Cor. Wall & Liberty Sts.-'Phone 4·5612 Depot Office: l\', Y. (J, Sta.tlon-'Phone 4-S51.2 Scllene(}-tady, N. Y. RESS NATION·W'IJIE R:I\IL·AI.R SERVICE------ Firs1 Hoc E!! Cbac for ear lit No consi givin Th meet were er, J A. c. ness, H. E Mat•l hack C: Pi

cal As- rations have some they're motion to de- bed- proved arrive, of so- Young shows the It's a die good what senti- sacri- reside- right to very so we Samuel his his re- lays the ha~ e many to play e series are Lone that be ted that ould be It is. t!:1e which week- han- band is names a few Jack AI Rollo-on- Paul ous. Mr. M.E. Bruce heart· girls! Shll'iey ( :art<>OJi N.Y. His SSe rain with rate• \home- to come. ss THB CONCORDlENSlS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1938 Page Three First Call for Frosh Hodey Men Draws I 8 Block ''U\' Awards ~to~ 18 FootbaU Eighteen freshmen an s we 'r e.d Coach Walter J. Nelson's first call for yearling hocltey candidates · earlier this week. M ·a o·th c ·,t d f \ ·u· ,,, en; . · : . ers 1: e ·or a· ::a. s No definite practice plans will be Managers .for 1939 Football, Cross-Country Tea·ms Also Announced; Co-Managers in Football --- considered until after the Thanks- --- ~·- , Five senloros, eight juniors, and giving ·rE:cess. four sophomores comprised the· In addition, James Malcare, '39, Those who reported for the fit•st group of 17 v:ars.ity football players vvho was to have bEen the varsity meeting of the prospective prayers who were voted Block \U\ letters center- this year, but who was in- were: H. T. A1·mstrong, R. K. Bak- for outsandlog ,participation dur-· jured in pre-season pra.ctice· and er, if. B. Campbell, A. B. I>orsman, · ing the past intercollegiate grid- forceil to the sideline for the ·en- A. C. Gay, B. K. Grant, W. A. Hark- iron season, at a meeting of the tire season, was a1so honored ~~ith ness, H. H\lndrickson, C. Keeler,. Awards Committee yesterday, Pro-· a Block \U.\ H. F. Keppler, 'C. K. !!..asher, B. fessor J. Hal\old Wittner, director Eigbt .players whn did not par- Mal•ks, A. T. Morrison, R. Not-. of athletics, a.nnounced today. Two ticipat:e the t•equired number of hacker, R. Panoft', T. Parsons, J. managers-elect fot· next year were quarters. for major· a.wards ·were C: Pinkston, and C. A. Volz. also cited for varsity ·letters. listed for \aUa\s, along witll two assis:ant managers-ele.ct. Joe College :is D.ead·l Contraty to \movie\ depictions, undergraduates of today are anything but \collegiate.\ Ey and large they wear consexvative clothes and wear 1:hem well. Promulgators of advance fashions, college men are going in heavily tbis season for st:parat4! white laun- dered collllfs, a new style note for informal dress-up occasions. Arrow claims honor to the world's most famous collars. See the new smart models today, ••• designed with a care for comfort and authentic style. ZS¢ each. The Swing Version of an Old Classic At the same time the names of . the 1!1anager-elect and his t VIO as- sistan·ts for varsity cross-country for next year, an:d the manager· elect for ft•eshman cross-cou:r:Jtry VJere also revealed. Headed by Capta:in Jaclt A. ma- zon, the list of seZJ!ors was also made up of Ray Lewis, Sumner Idsh, Billy Thomas and Donald Henderson. Jun·iors included Wally : Baker-, Johnny Krull, Bill Lynn, Fred Burns, Larry Brockrnyer, Fred Pat·rie, Sam Hammerst.I·orn and D-iclc. Kearns. Bol> ][()!loy, Dlc:k Balch, James Both-well, and :Dia· · rnond· Mamtta were the S{)phom<Jres mentioned. Football Co-Ma.na.g-ers For the first time tn. the history of the college, it is believed, the varsity football squad wm have co- :rnanagers next season. Don Wells and Don Glenn bot'h will sel'Ve in · t'hat ·c:apacity during the 1939 gl'id- iron c:ampaign. \aUa\ caps werE awarded to .Augie Kluge, Jack Vannier, George Norris, John Guibet·t, '\'I'iny\ Wein· traub, Adam Ciesinsk.l, Leo Dwyer and Bill Busino, and t{) Roger Nar- shall and Ronnie Ostraniler, assist- ant .Jrlanagers-elect. D·W)\er Kluge and Busino are juniors. Jatnes Barford, 'Hl, will rnan- a,ge t.he varsity harriers in :1939, assisted by Henry Crosby and Don- ald Rickard, sophomores. Adieth Epstein, '40, will act «s fre.sh:man cross...::ountry manager. ---0---- Physical Ex:am. Deadline Set for December IS The following treshmen have not taken the required Physical Ebc- amination and are z•e<t uested to rt.'· port to !he College Pi1y-sician he· fore ])ecembei' 15, the ·f.inal <lead- line! List drawn up Wednesda.y: At•oostrong, H. 'T.; .A.rony, A.; BarbL, S. K.; Beaven, R; Beer, .A. J.; Best, W.; Birdsall, W. C.; Blake, D. K. ;-Bowdish, C. E.; Britten, H.; Butler, J. W.; Califano, C. A.; Chanplin, W. H.; Chesebro, F'. S.; Chestney, B. S.; Clayton, G. C.; Coates, W. R.; Coggeshall, R. H. Davi~on, H. W.; Dingman, D.; Doyle, 'I'. J.; Enzer, J.; Feigenbaum, A. V.; Feldman, L. L.; Fischer-, A.; Fole)\\, J. E.; Forse, R. K.; Genova, J.; ~uerry, W. A.; Guiles, B. F.; H:asir.e, B. F.; Hall, W. K; Hark- ness. W. A.; Horning, J. W.: Hor- ton, S. J.; Hot'ton, 'W. F.; Hutc:hins, E. T. Jahlol>owski, B.; Jayc:ox, J'. J.; Kay, A. D.; Kelch, E. C.; Eilb, C. 'E.; King, E. T.; Koch, E. H.; Knud- son, S. A.; Kohlenbenr. 8.; Lan- dry, P. J.; Leland, B. 'I'.; Longe, F. lntramurals Foul-Shooting Contest Contestants may attempt 25 hee throws at any time between 10:30 a. m. and 1:30 p. m. daily. Compe- tition will continue through Tues- day, Decembet· 21), .A group must have at least 10 rrten competing in order to gain its ·entrance points. However, the total of the 15 high- est successful members of a group will c<Junt. Bowling Tournament Eligibility-Any student in col- .!ege is eligible to participate. Points--A team will be given 40 entrance points for compe:ing. However, a team Ol' group must actually bowl at ·least 2 j3 of its game schedule to· acquire these en- tJ•ance points. Sixty additional points will be dis~ributed among the groups for competing. There will be ne> forfeits, as each absentee will be gi.ven 100 for each game total. A team will be com- posed of any five ruen on a group's .Jaster. Substitutes may be inserted as frequently as desired, but a per· s·on who starts a game must finish that particular garne. Time and l'lace - The matches will be contested on Reuter's Al- leys, located on Clinton Street. The games will start promptly at 1:30 p. m. each Wednesday and Thurs- day afternoons. League Schedules - The teams will be divided inlo two leagues, as was done last year. However, the two teams finishiDg first in each league will entet' .the playoffs for the championship. A cup will be awarded to the winner. ---.0 Football Lettermen Elect Captain for 1939 on Monday All football lettermen will meet on Monday afternoon in the Trophy Room of the Alumni Gymnasium at 1:15 o'clock tc> elect a captain for the 1939 sease>n. The names of all lettermen are printed in an- other story elsewhere on this page. Hockey Candidates Meet Coach Nelson on Nov. 28 Candidates be»th for varsity and freshman hoekey teams have been reqtusted to meet with Coach Wa-lter J. \Duke\ Nelson in the T:rophy Room of Alwnni Gymnasium on Monday afternoon following the Thanks· giving Recess at~ o'clock, Nov. 28. J.; Lowe, R. B.; MacDonald, J. E.; Marks, B.; McMullen, E.; Mead, H. T.; Nagle, N. C.; Newton, R. L.; Oakes, E. W.; O'N-eill, H. J. Palazini, R.; Panoff, R.; Paul, W.; Peel, J. A.; Perlstein, J. S.; Poole, J. A.; Procita. L. ~ Raifstanger, E. B.; Ralph, K. W.; Rasso, A. E.; Reilly, A. E.; Ryenolds, K. W.; Rhoades, J. W.; Richards, F. G.; Rogers, R. H.; Rc.mine, H. L.; Roo- ney, J. L.; Royce, C. P. Schmelzer, F. P.; Schrodt, P. F.; Sertie, R. J.; Sharp, V. B.; Shell, G. H.: Stevens, c_ B.; Stiles, C. G.; Taylor, W. H.; Thwing, R. W.; Tie- bout, R. H.; Treder, F. H.; Van O'Lina, E. H.; Van Zandt, W. K.; Volz, C. A.; Wat·'<l, E. J.; Wardell, E. R.; Weider, J'.; Weller, W. E.; Woodward, C. E.; Y'oung, J. H. 1941 King, D. W.; L.ong, R. F. Juniors Battle Frosh ·For Lacrosse Honors Junior and freshman clas~ la- crosse tea·ms will cross sticks to- morrow afternoon on Library Field at 3 o'clock for the intet·cla~s la- crosse championship, The yearlings earned their way to the finals when they trounced the sophomores Wednesday. After both the senior and junior class sqaads failed to muster enough players for their schecluled match on Thursday, Coach Bill Harkness announced that the third-year men would be able to draw up a team by Saturday. The freshmen will enter tomot'- row's fray seeking to uphold the cub supremacy established by last year's incoming group. ----0----· Intramural Basketball Varsity Hockey Team Eligibl,esl 14 Four lettermen will from the nucleus of this year's varsity hockey team which. attracted 14 candidates at the opening meeting late last week. As it i:;, the :;quad will greatly miss the :;ervices of seven regulars lost through grad- uation, two others who failed to return, and three promising fresh- men who did not pass with their ,class. Four Lettermen . Captain Marty Heck, Foster :Brown, John Cone and Henry Clay wet·e among those who met with Coach Walter Nelson to discuss the outlook for the coming ice sea- .son. The remaining roster was made up of Phil Mitchell, Laughlin McKinnon, Ed Ottentot, Bill Hart, Joe Stiefvater, Die!{ Brickley, Carl . Coleman, Brad Hastings, Dudley All students who expect to parti- Holmes, and Dick Henyan. cipate in the basketball tournament None of the four lettermen saw must be examined by the college active service with the first line physicians before competing in any last season, varying between sec- basketball games. Otherwise, a and and third-line duty. Of the player will be declared ineligible remaining list, McKinnon, Hart, and his group shall suffer an auto- Hastings, Holmes and Henyan per· matic forfeit. 1 formed with the freshmen. SEE OUR. NEW Wireless Control Record Player $24.95 CASSEDY PIANO CO .. 460 STATE ST. When the finest hotel type barber services costs you no more, it is wise economy to patronize FALCONE'S FALCitNE'S HOTEL VAN CURLER Plenty of Parking Space Near PROCTOR'S s·u ITS CLEANED • PRESSED TWO SUITS Cleaned and Pressed n~:: 93c Call for and Deliver \For Students Who Care\ G&G CLEANERS DYERS 12 Elm St. Phone 3-1775 Int-ramural Bowling Leagues 1938-39 If you're in the groove and wear nothi:ng but collar· attached shirts, it's plain to see that J'Ou're out of touch -with the latest and newest in university fashions • . • the detacuable white laundered collar. Arrow provides a large variety of ultra smart and comfort· able collar moclels, affording many collar style com- binations for any one neckband shirt. You'll like the appearance and economy of white st:arched collars. 254 each BOYD WA.LTON LORD KENT DOWNS (j) CXJ ()0. w ARROW COLLARS NATIONAL AMEEICAN 1'. Della Upsilon, clef. chanps 1. Kappa Alpha 2. Chi Psi 2. Sigma C:Eli 3. Sigma Phi 4. Phi Sigma Delta 5. Kappa Sigma 6. Delta Phi 3. Lambda Chi Alpha 4. Phi De!UJ. Theta 5. Psi Upsi.1on 6. Theta DElta Chi 7. Beta Theta Pi 7. Kappa Nu 8. Phi Gamma Delta 8. Alpha D-elta Phi National League ALIJE'I.'S 1&~ 3&4 5&6 November 30 1-2 7-8 3-4 December 8 6-3 1-3 D-7 December 14 5-4 2-6 1-8 Jauuacy 12 3-6 8-4 7-2 Januar~ 18 7--1 5-2 <l-6 Febi\ua.ry 2 ~3 6-7 8-5 Februa.ry 8 4-1 3-5 6-1 American League ALI,EYS 1&2 3&4 6&6 December 1 1~2 7-8 3-4 December 7 6-8 l-3 5-7 December 15 5-4 2-6 1-8 Janval'y 11 3·B 8-4 7-~ Jan-uai.\y 19 74 5-2 4-6 Feb:J\ua.ry 1 2'3 6-7 8·5 : Feb:rua.ry 9 4'7 3-li 6-1 FOOT .. B.A.l..Ll)HOO 7&8 li-6 2-4 7-3 1-5 3-8 4-1 8-2 7&8 5-6 2-4 7-3 1-li 3-8 4-1 8-2 \\re•ve had a cor:np!,a;int that tbis column, supposedly a. matter of inter- CIS\ :for only five people on th.e entire campus, takes l!J> too much space on .the sports pagE. Not doesirous of starting any co:nlroversy this late, · we merely point <Jl.lt that th:is year's football foHc.astlng column has sought. and successfully. to cat down the double amoiLnt of 10om devoted to 11. similar column last year. In short, Ed. ChJef ·Fred Hequembourg lP.ads Nith 38 out of 54, follow- ed by Head Coach \N~ls\ Nitchroan and Frosh Coa..:ll \Ott\ Lawrence . with 37, Sports Ed ;Terry Smith with 315 and Dr. \Duke\ Nelson with 30. ,,, \\' GO BY GREYHOUND Sample Round·Trip FareD When you sta~t the annual pilgrimage home to get a good square meal (we presume you're ~~:~:~?No. not immune to the charms of a home-cooked cHICAGO . drumstick!) remember the sage advice of the DETRon Puritan Fathers ••• \Always travel bt Grey- ~~~~~~~~\ hound and save your money for a rainy day woRcEsTER or a really swell party!\ You can manage the NEw voRK whole out-of-town week-end for a little more PHILADELPHIA than you'd spend hanging around the co!l~ge. :;..:L,;r~~N°c;\TEoN The trip, at Greyhound's low fares, cost less easToN than half as much as driving a car • , • even a pre-Mayflower model! 277 STATE STREET Schenectady, N. Y. Phone 6-341S a. a~ 12.55 21. 45 17.05 4.35 7. \5 6.0\) 5. 15 7.40 10.30 11. 45 7. IS

?age Four Van Santvoo!rd, 78, Noted Alumnus Passes Away Dies in Troy Was Distingt~ished By Legal, Literary Achievements SeymoUI Van Sant vom-d, of the. class of 1878, died at his home in Troy last Monday. Mr. Van Sant- ;·oord. who received his bachelor Df laws degree at the Albany Law Schuol in 1880, was for many yea·rs a ttustec of Union College as well as vice-president of Albany Law ::>chool. His J.i.fe wa:,; mar·ked by many lit- C'!'ar·y and legal achievements-cul- minating in electi'on to many or- ganizations aild clubs symbolic of exct>llency in thesP :fields. He was JHPsident of 1:he Holland Society of New Yorlt, the National Institute of Social Sciencc>s and was prPsi- dent of the American Hugenot So- <\iety. Ht• was also a fellow of th£> Royal Society of Arts in England as wl'l-1 a,; the London .Author's Club and the Univer·sity Club of New Yol'k. Mr. Van San1voord was thE' au- thor of many noted historical books, among them: ThP Roman Forum; Octavia, A. Talt> of Ancient Rnmt>; St. Francis, The Christian Exemplar; and Random AddrPsSf's. His legal career, which included :;er vice as counsel to Governor Dix of New Yo1·k and cha-irman of the upstate Public Service Commission. won him the posit ion of Dean of the Rensselaer County Bar Associa- tion. which position he hdd un1il hi.; death. He was at one time Tr·ustee of Union College, E:mma Willard School, Russell Sage College, The Troy Samaritan Hospital, the Troy Orphan Asylum. The Troy Public Library, Albany Law School and the Troy Humane Society. He was a partner in the firm of Van Sant- voord and Wellington in Troy for many year~. A,; a politician. he was an activP Democrat, se1 vint: as alternate delegate-at-large to the Democratic Convention Ill 190{ and was com- missioned as Democratic presi- dential elector in 1932. - 0 Interclass Spirit Built Up By Student Council THE CONCORDlENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1938 Succrunbs \ . ~1ud.ents Prot·e st Against Recent !N~azi Outra9es Local Alumni Elect Treder New President Noted Speaker to Preach i:n Chapel Next _Sunday Dr. Fox Delivers Second Lecture In Series at N.Y. U. To Give Third Next Monday; His Theme Is 'Yankees and Yorkers' 'WI'OUp Considers Many ~..Aethods of Solving Pressing Problem 1 Contlnut•d from Pa~e 1 l !ief:('S. J.t wa~ :::;ug-.gestt•d that these ,night be ec~ut·od ft·om reduction~ ii)y college U u>te<>B in tuition and. cun1 and board grants by val'ious · 1 at' PrnHies. In eat lit~t· dbcussion I dl-e scholarship idea had' many ad- .:crenl s, but t lulir nurn'ber~ d win- \! lrd as ana-lysis of the plan !H o- .·.~eded. 'I'llt• following obo;tacle~ <.\·pre : ~ntE'cl: 1. etrict im-mi~tation laws. relatively stt ong American .:~Jr~jw.LiC'~.c:. against an inC'rease in (h'c.;rish population. 3. the tremen- ':aou' ~ ubsidy nPcc:\ary ·o makC' thP :!o;chclaJ·ships po~sible, 4. administta- _itive objection\ of collq>;E's. 5. the 1 ... 1-ue:sH<Jn llf what tll£) l'et'ugPP is to - iLl<> after ht• gt•t,;. hh• d<•grt•P. Hl· icm1 \l(Jt ~t:.ty in this Cl·JUntry. The :rneeting voted 1;1 to 7 again~t t hP ;:::;cllohr:-.hip pl(·l(lO~al. Disaallll'OVf' nf Imn1igration :: 1he d(llcgatP~ PXpiP~sPd gPneral : k.usapproval of the A.merican im- . !rr~1gra t-ion of pet·,ecuted Jews. ':Rather thl'Y felt the neoessity of l:eotablishing a united, \:;elf-inte- :gated\ Hebrew nation in somE' ap- ·:pmpt:ia'ed tenitory. The suggps- :i_tion of Jpwi~h colonization of <Continued from Page ll . . ,· . . . , . _ . . •. Rl1 odP\ia was brieftr a n<l indeci- :;pll a_ I> obviOU>l:; m.<cc n.nt ~ cllfft-, i -dV<'I)' considered. cult m :r:<ew York by tht.' cH-cUUl-!: At this point Dr. Norman A. s_tancP .\t mme than half !Is people• l~ennetton of \he Union French de- ~rvmg ll1 one comrnumty, whtch LS; pal tment was asllc>d bv Chairman m a ternote corner of the state and, 'iunich to Pxpr·e~s his ~pinions. Dr. \erve not only the adJaCent par.t.s! Bennettun dPclared that the ptes- of ?ther ,;tates, but abo a whu.l€; ent problem wa:; not one for Jews natto~. · The ~trongl'st factor· rn a'lom• or Chri~t ian:; alone. but a bnngmg the :;enurnent .of the tw<J;, w<nld pl•oblem of the \suppression parts of the ~tate toge.her ts th€1 1 th · d' ,·d I\ \C ·t · common histmical background.\ · 0 · e m nt ua · er atn coun- Ilr·. Fox also said that he would! l.i·i<'~ ... he Baid. \have reachPd a stage in theit· economic develop- take up m tiUb;equent lee\ urPs un- Dr. \!illbm C. Tteder of t);Je ;·lass of 19tH was elected president ,.,[ t!1e l:lchen\~t'l<:y County Alumi1i .\J ul'.ation of lJnion College at a ~· cl'Lng t:el~\ in Hale House last· light. The meeting which fo'llowed :t tli-nnc•r fur the local group fea- , t m E'd 11 report by 1.he nominat-ing cnmmittee of JHOpo•ed officers for the veP r 1\139. The Nominating Comr{1it~ <'<' consbt·ing of J. Leslie Sc'hoolc·mft, '08. chairman: and ! ou:s G. Hinaldi. '22, Jacob M. F:a·,kcl '17, Hany B. Ja·rker, Jr .. 3 !, atl<l \\'. Ashton Swick, '30, nomi- 'lotc·cl Dt·. Trcdet· fot· ptesldent; Dr. ·•t .. c·< :fl. Dunn. '12, first vice-pres- J,:t•nt: '>lilliam Schauer, '17, second vice-pl esidE'nt; Louis G. Hinaldi. '22, third \'ice- ;--ore,oi<!ent; S an J·oseph, 21. secretary. Louis Oppenheim, '15. t-tea;mer; and also nom-in3ted l'homas E. Ha.nigan, '08, Jacob M. Fr onkcl, '17. Dr. Sam S. F:euer, '25, :-•rC\der it' A. \'1/yatt, '32. Raymond S. .\!LtcDo\':l'll, 35, William M. Leon- ar·cl, '2·1. J. Leslit• S~hoolcraft, 'OS, l•'n·d \\ . Fi,ch. '18. Basil W. Con- rad. 'lti. ·tnd CheBter W. Rankin. '09. ·o th<• Hoard uf Directors. 0 NOTICES Old ChapP!: AH meetings to be held ;n the Old Chapel must be ~chcduled through the Dean's Off.ice in order to avoid conflicts. The janitor has been instructed to open the room only for mee' ings sched- u!Pd in the Dean's OFfice. Frt·shmu.n Dinner~: Thel'E' will be no Fn•shman weekly dinners served in Hale House from November 21 to 27 ntclusive. Ji'reshn1en having ,:~.·eekly dinne1· t ickt>l> for Sunday may .use the ticket for the wef'k of November· 27 on Sunday, November 20. Dr. Stearns Active In Many Schools And U~ iversities Dr. Alfred -E. Stearns, Principa!l- Emeritus 0f PhiUi-ps Academy, And- over·, Mass., wm speak at the chapel service next Sunday. Dr. Stearns was graduated' from Phillips Acad- emy and Amherst College, and re- ceived his training fer the ministry at the Aridevel:· Theological Semin- ary. The honorat'Y degree ef Master of Arts was •conferred upon Dr. Stearns by Yale and Amherst, the· honorary_ deg-vee ef Doctor of Let- ters by Yale and Dartmouth, Doc- tor of Literature by Amherst and WiHiams. and' Doctot· of Laws by Harvard. After teaching .for three years at the Hill School, Pottstown, Pa .. Dr. Stearns returned to Phillips Acad- emy where he taught and served as Registrar unUI he was appointed as Principal in 1902. Dr. Stearns se1·ved as Principal for thirty years, until he was forced by illness to resign in 1932. Dr. Stearns is trustee of Amherst College, Mercersburg Academy, Lawrence Academy, the Brimmer· School, and Andover-Newton Theo- logical Seminary. , He ha:> been preacher for many . years at the leading universities, colleges, frn d schools in the east. CoS. MOODY OPTOMETRIST Eyes Examined, Glasses Fitted 115 B'way Telephone Cl-5747 · Three Doors from State St. der the Stokes Foundation hoVI·i ,nent where it seems nece~sary to c<ush the thing- that the Jewi$h Yankees came to importance a,;; .1tHl Christ ian et hie has been de- ~ne\ch~ar;~:-~~~ ~:·;en~~~t a~~yw~~t:d', vdoping- fm thousan<l~ of years- PIn New Ym·k and achieved mor· e· .ndiddual per·snnality .. He agreed ouccess here than in their forrner ,vi 11 John Dairy of Sirna that the Librarr: In the futute the library can not be responsible for calling <tudents : o the telephone. Students who d1 aw books from the library must sign th<'ir own names to the cat·ds and are responsible even though the book is bonowed for another student. home,; in 1\:ew England. creating a· nC\w nadition of efficiency. NeVI York, too. he addt>rl. has its own· iiterary heritage. He w'ill denver the third lect-UrQ· on \The Dutch AttC\mpt a Line,\' '>11 Monday. NovPmbE'r 21. and the following day will spPak on \Nc·vc England \iVins.\ His concluding IVv\<• lec:u1Ps will be on \BordPr War- fare.\ ;\1owmber 21-l. and \1\:t>·\\' York as a New England Colony; on November· 21'1 Jn ly way to solve the problem c>lf<:>rt ivPly wa..' to strilte at the ulti- mate cause of the persecution, to t1y to destmy faseism itself. Paffi ath di\ declaring that ~u<\h an attPmpt would inf'vitably lf'rHi to \Vat·. The group was PVPnly di'l:itl<'d upon thh scnrr. Discuss A<\tion Sew Radiogram SPn·icP: The Union ColiPge Radio Club offers J.n amateur radiogram service to 3tudents and factuly. These mes- sages are sent through amteur radio stations as a hobby, free of charge. The handling of the mes- :<agl'S is subject to rad-io condi- 'ions. therefore delivery cannot be ;.:uar·anteed. Mes:;ages arc :;ent by th.:> club station, W2GSB. They \hould bt> written on the forms sup- plied near the message box in the entr·y of the Electrical Engineering Building. ----------------- When Eating Do Not Forget MODERN DINER Cor. Veeder Ave. & State FREIHOFERS BREAD :-: CAKE :-: ROLLS Daily Delivery Direct to Your Home TEL. &4224 CALENDAR Today 5:0(} p. m.--Class in Journalism, Silliman HalL 8:00 p. m. --P l_ay Production Class, Meunteb~nks The:J;tre. Presenting, \The Man wi.th the Flower in his Mouth\ by Pimndello and \The First and the Last\ by Galsworthy. 8:00 p. m.-Union vs. St. Law- rence, Debate, Otd Chapel. Tomorrow 10:00 a. m. - Daily Assembly:· President Dixon Ryan Fox. Sunday 11:00 a. m. - Sunday Service. P r e a c h e r , Dr. Alfred E: Stearns, Archmeadow, Dan- vers, Mass. Memoria-l Chape-l. 4:00 p. m.--Organ Recital. Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh. Memorial ChapeL 2:00 p. m.--Schenectady Town Meeti-ng of the Air. Memorial Chapel. Monday 8:00 ,p. m.-General -Meeting of Local Hi-Y Clubs, sponsored by Y. M. C. A. Old Chapel. 6:15 p. m.---Piacement Confer- ence. Dean Sydney Cunning- ham, Albany Medical College. Psi Upsilon Fraternity. Tuesday 10:00 a. m. -- Daily Assembly. Dr. Charles N. Waldron. EMPIRE THE STUDENTS LAUNDRY PHONE 4-6514 301 Green St. For that midnight snack! visit The FARM Restaurants 104 and 501 STATE ST. R / for building health in mind and body. Program to Provide For Interclass Contests Annually James Stolw\ <':<tahlbht'd the COUI'SP of }petun-..., on thf' f'al'l\• •hi8· tmy of A.merica. particularly. ·with· refC\r·encl' to N'ew England, \wi tli the pur pos~ of inculcating a knovvi' edge of the principles which ani- mated the Puritan fathers and early colonists; and of 1 hP i nfi~' Pnce tlwy haw PXPrted upon rno<'' ern civilization.\ The Jpctur e foun- dation was founded in memoq ~~ Anson G. Phelps. matC\r·nal gr-~nd' fathe1· of thE' donnr, and nnr oft !,• foundets of New York Cnil't:>l· sity. FathPI Alcun Shield:< of Siena Coll~ge ,uggested to the \tudent th.at the best way of eomba1ting oppression, just B~ it \VRS thrPe thou:;and yt•ar> ago in Egypt anJ !1a~ brPn nutny tinw~ \i nc-f'. i:-; ~till that nf nbset vine: Chrbtian teach- ng< and of prayer. l\li !ton M Enzor. who attend<'d hr forum in his r·ole of college pub! irity dn·ectot·, made the most n1atcr ia.Jly pointl•d and practical sug~P:-ot ion of the aftl·rnoon when he rtl<>rl th~ po<sibi.lity that hun- .,j 1·ed\ of coll<'g<' I»uio amateurs thwughout thE' nation could be at'lJUH•d to keep \bombarding\ ·riP I n1at1y with dPni urratic propa~ ~anda. H\ also 'tatPd that a simi- ·lar pffect could be achieved if AmP I ic-an ,;t udPnts could be per- <uaded to k!'op a steady strE'am of rtiticRl IPt'cr~ going to GPi\many. 'rho:-'C prnpm;als, a it hnugh not pUt ~o R.. vn1r. \f'PmPd t,Q hP gf'nPrally • pprm•erl. Howov!'r f'rveral, in- -eluding two R. P. I. enginf'ers, ,pointed out the eevcrP technical ·difficul tirs and those of Nazi cen- sowhip which such an undertak- inQ' ,~·ould havp to far£1. lege: Marcia Yaggle, Pre:;ident of thP Senint' CJaef< of St. Rose· Decn Ft·eed. an e:ditor of the Skidmore N~w~. Skidmore; George Parisi, John F. D.aley, John Moran, Joseph Conway. Joseph W. Lyons, John Kiley and Father Alcun Shields of Siena College; Jean Buckland, an editor· of the Quill, Eleanor Zander, President of the Christian Associa- tion. and Thelma Telfer. of the Eco-nomic-~ Club. of Russell Sage; Elizabeth Frank. President of the Catholic Youth Organization, and Elaine McKeon. Editor of the Ar- row. of St. Rc~e College: Leslie Paffrath. President of the Christ- ian Association John P. Lewis. a member of Union's publications staff. Dr·. Norman A Bennetton, and Milton M. Enzer, of Union Col- lege. MAKE YOUR ·l < · Amsterdam Dairy MILK <Coni inued from Page 1 l the ceremonies on Moving-up Day and an -award will be presented. This prize is beinl{ arranged for by Dr. Waldron, and will probably be in the form of a plaque. to be hung in the I rophy room of the g-ymnasium. The rules committE'e supervising the running off and judging of thf' freshmen-sophomor-e mPf'l« is rom- posE'd of the following men: Co- chairmen. Louis Carr and Fred Burns; Sum Hammerstrom: John Krull: Charles Passe: HPrb Wat- son; Chester Rubinson·: Ernest Bodenstab; Edward Gagen; Fred Patrie: Frank Melewicz; Warren De Sorbo: Ernest Allnutt and Francis Dunigan. The purpose of thE' new outlinl' for rivalry betwE>en the clasoE'S, as stated by Yunich. is to foster class spirit and enthusiasm. Both the classes have been noticeably defi- cient in thosE' qualities -and it is hopPd that this program will arouse them. - 0----- Grant '39 Speaks ill Chapel 'The Mountebanks Theatre is in a position to offer valuable experi- ence in all phases of stage tech- nique and. management,\ declared Ht'rbert B. Grant, '39, speaking hi. daily assembly Wednesday morn- ing, in his capacity as President of the Mountebanks. Grant went on to explain the theatre's plans for the year, de- claring they would follow their established policy of -presenting a play of an experimental nature, a serious drama. and a comedy. P1·rviuus An;;on G. Phelps ler· tm·e1~ have been Samuel Eliot Morison. professor of histor·y, Har- vard l'niver•itv: Charle~ M. A.n- drPw•. F'a.rnhm.,; profl's><m· of .\mt:'r, icRn hl~t.nn:. Yn_lf> Pni\'Pr~ihp · A B. McLaughlin. historian and f<lr- mer head of 1he ciepartmePt of hio- tory, University of Chicago; anti Dr. D. Looij, professor of hist-Dl:f in the Univer·sity of Amsterdam, Holland o Fred crkk W. HequPmbourg, '39 Juliet Munroe Presented C>f Remsf'n. Editor of ThE' Concor- Wedn<>:<day. Nov. 16-- Jultet .Mun- .'dimsif<. and David ],. Yunich. '39 .. . . . 1 Pros! dent of the Union CollegP Stu- roe, promrsmg young smger ·r<Jln d C - Alban W \ ~ p 1 d . . t 1 ' ent ounc1l, conductf'.d the mef't- y, ~ resen e m recE a · lt' h ll{e.taurant-Tap Room·llellcatessen GOLD'S ALWAYS POPULAR this afternoon by Dr. Elmer Tid- tng w rc :-vas attendPd _by J~an mar·sh to the mernbPrs of his Maslc Keyes, Pre~!dPnt of th<' Drscusswn Appreciation Class Club of Skrdmore. Eustace WC\tzel. Something Different A . d b . ,Gm.nd Marshall of the RcnE::elaer R 0 M AN 0 F F 'S . ccompame Y Dr. Trdmarsh · !Union of R. P. !. Wal'!·en J Allc>n 224 Nott Te~n~ Mrss Munroe sang selectwne fr<Jin 'Jr· E\'r·t 01 . f th R . 1 . p 1 .· ··~ th Cl · 1 · , · .. •\ o c en ~sr aP I o ~. e . as~tc~ ·Romantic French im-' cchniC', R. P. T.; Katherine Sowal- For that 11 p.m. snack pressromstrc and Contempo1:ary lsky. President of thC\ StuclPllt Kosher Sandwich schools,. r:er efforts WPrP r·pcetvPr'l \'P~e~a~c~e~F~e~d~e~r~a~ti~o~n~o~f~S~t~. ~R~o~se~C~o~l-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ enthusia><treally by t hP rla,.s. · --------- Lower Fuel Costs with 'blue coal' Low Price Student BundlP American A-1 Laundry 1030 BARRETT ST. Just Off Union Try John Barcley Service Flour, Feed, Seeds, fertilizer, Coke, Fuel Oil HIRAM J. McKAIN CO. 306-314 Union St. Phone 4-4448 GUERRA PHARMACY DRUGS, :PRESCRIPTIONS, SUNDRmS We Cater to Union Students and Their Guests WE SERv:E SANDWICHES AND LIGHT LUNCHES UNION COLLEGE STATIONERY 29c JAMES RESTAURANT 426 State St. 600 Union St. cor. Barrett Phone 2-9419 MEETING PLACE at R,EUTER'S BOWLING ACADEMY 148 Clinton St. DOUW F. BEEKMAN Gasoline - Brake Service. U. S. Tires Motor Tune-up Exides Lubrication Let Us Prepare Your Car for Winter 60 I UNION ST. Open Until II P. M. 2 glasses before retiring Repeat Daily Phone Cl-~351 for Daily Delivery Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 ··.Pleasant Valley Food Market OUR MOTTO \Quality Service Satisfaction\ 598 B'way - For Better Values DESSERTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS FANCY FORMS and ICE CREAM CAKES ~app~ Jersey Ice Cream Company GAZETTE PRESS PINE GROVE DAIRY Inc. 633 State St. 226 Nott Ter. 204 Union St. 1 009 Chrisler PHONE 6·3456 PRINTERS 118 S. Ferry St. Schenectady, N. Y. Ave. D I Z-511 Vol. 1 Onl Net Thi: Dr. Fo: To 'Tho~ make courag more class c incapa said r: three he re fTeshn these his ·sul The cal le< a who in otl Unitec of one The Dr. L \tense time his fu said, ~ wit hOI hours po01e~ plish me tho about period This :ive, t consic way t cumst at its The is \tc which a cerl Two shoul< which sary z.nd := done of stL the c sible reaso· class terial next, keep never ThE velop Ligor the t cabul word' them days to t1 later, and The· five ' tinue 30 d: comr ing t impo he s: of m Ha the i in ~ cour the can bloc! for 1 man -Gl Wa Sui Cl of t SUP! by ' Alut af.te hav' und in whe Alu is tc bril den H voh stuc the ren thu nee coli sue

e. st y. y, U• of dy. UNION COLLEGE liBRAfff Dean's List • Union Has Published tS First Ski Dec. 2 Team Z-511 Vol. LXU., No. 19 .UNlON COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, NOV:El\LBER 22, 1938 PRICE FIVE CENTS ========~========~================~======~=========-~-==-~~======~==~~==~~~==~==================·==== Radi~ Club Plans Anti- Nazi Committee Only Five Frosh Need Flunk This Year Dr. Ellery Installs 1:3 Chapters . Of the Society of Sigma Xi Foreign Broadcast T S t F d l PI· ToLaudDemocracy 0 uppor ~ era · an Dr. Edward Ellery, chairman of<®--- ~--~ ~ ~- -<® Dr. Ligon Offers Ways For Other Freshman To Pass Courses .the Division of Science, has in- , stalled 43 of the 77 chapters of the ' · Society of Sigma Xi during the Will Attempt Coopei:a.tion With Concordy Anti-Nazi Program Father of Anti-l\'azi Prlan Six Upstate Colleges Vote to Aid Anglo-American Plan : 26 years he has ·been its .national : · :Secretary. in this work, Dr. Ellery: . ·has c1·iss•crossed the country many\ 'Those fr·eshmen whG failed to :times, going from New England t.o. make the Dean's List may be en- '::::alifornia and fz.om Canada to couraged by the assertion that no Florida. more th8in five members of the Since Dr. Ellery assumed his· class of '42 are \actually unfit or ·duties in !912, he has installed chap-: incapable of remaining at Union,\ 'ters at Rutgers, McGill, Kentucky,· said Dr. Ernest M. Ligon. He has Idaho, Swarthmore, Oregon, Vir-' three simple study methods that :ginia, Johns Hopkins, C. I. T., he recommends to make every. N. Y. U.. Cincinnati, Michigan freshman, with the exception of· State, Arizona, Lehigh, Maryland,· these five, capable of passing all 'Kansas, College of Medicine Uni- his ·subjects with good marks. versity of Illinois, Pennsylvania Francis Dunigan, '40; business manager of the R!l:dio Club, said yesterday that he is investigating . the possibility of the Radio Club'a · b~oadcasting factual news of Amer- . ican democracies to Germany. This will be in cooperation with The Concordiensis' program sponsor- ing intercoHegiate discussion to pl'Otest against the Nazi' outra.ges against Catholics. Jews and liberals. The recent battery of psychologi- State, Oklahoma State, College of cal tests showed that the class, as Washington, Wyoming, Rochester,. a whole, is far above the average Pittsburgh, Harvard, Western Re- in other colleges throughout the •serve, Princeton, Duke, University United States, with the exception of California, Los Angeles division, of one subject, English. . :M. I. T., Tulane, Wesleyan, Smith, The first method of study that Carleton, Buffalo, George Washing- Dr. Ligon suggests Is the short, 'ton, Utah, Carnegie Tech, Oregon• \tense l?tudy\ periods during which State, Rice, Massachusetts State, time the student concentrates to. Wellesley, and the University of. his full capacity. Each student, he Florida. The Radio Club, the oldest in . American colleges, is also work- ing up a new public ad'dress sys· tern for the varsity basketball games. A new auditor transmitter has been purchased and will re- place the one that was used during the football season. When this proj- ect is completed, apparatus will be constructed for use .in sever8il ex- periments in the field of ra.dio- electricity. The past history of the D!R. EDWARD ELLERY said, should be capable of studying· In additiOn to these college chap- without fatigue for from 21 to 48 ··ters, he has also helped establish which resulted in the society regu- · hour-s wi~hout rest but this is the: many regional Sigma Xi Clubs for Iarly awarding research prizes and po01est way in which to accom- alumni members. Dr. Ellery also grants, up to $1,000, to aid individ- plish any work.\ The \short tense 'edits the \Sigma Xi Quarterly.\ ual research and sponsoring scien- method\ of thorough concentration, Dr. Ellery led the movement tific lectures.-Samuel Portnoy. about 30 minutes, with a complete -------------------------------- period of relaxation at the end.· This r-elaxation must, to be effec-. Dayton Gets :ive, be utterly complete. Dr. Ligon considers this the most practical Lead 1 ·n Pla.y 28o/o Enrollment On Dean's List way to study, for under these cir- cumstances the ability to Jearn is at its best. The second effective study method is \to plan a work schedule in which every course subject is given a certain, definite outlay of time.\ Two hours of study, on a subje.ct should be a fair amount of time in which to accomplish all the neces- sary work, said Dr. Ligon. One and a half hours of it should be done before class and a half hour of study should immediately follow the class, or as soon after as pos- sible that afternoon, he said. The reason for this studying right after class is that 75 per cent of the ma- terial learned is forgotten by the next day, he said. \The best way to keep ahead of your schedule is never to get behind.\ The third study method is de- veloping one's memory. When Dr. Ligon was abroad, he found that the best way to learn foreign vo- cabulary was to make a list of the words and their meanings, study them and place them ahead two days in a dated file. When he came to that particular file two days later, he learned the day's work and the previous assignment also. The wor-k was then placed in a file five days further ahead. This con· tinued in a series of 10, 20, and 30 days. The system is apt to be complicated at first while learn· ing to be able to pick out only the important material. This method, he said,. can be used for any type of mat'er to be learned. Habit is the factor that eases the inconveniences suffered at first, in adopting these methods, en- couraged Dr. Ligon. He summarizes the whole situation: \The coach can tell a player how to go in and block, but he can't do the blocking for' the boy.\ It's up to each fresh- man now to do his own studying.\ -Glenn Stevens. ---o--- Waldmn Urges Students Support Alumni Monthly Charles N. Waldron, Secretary Mountebanks Cnmplete Casting \Rosmersholm\ For March Production Juniors Lead Classes With 71 Scholars 'J2 Second with 60 The Mountebanks completed cast- Dean Charles F. F. Garis an- ing for Henrik Ibsen's \Rosmer- nounced today that 235 undergrad- sholm\ last night, according to an uates had echieved sufficiently high announcement from Edward L. scholastic standing for tb.e first Carroll, '27, director. Jay P. Dayton, .quarter to be placed on the Dean's '40, who gave a brilliant perform- List Striking in his report was the ance of the innocent boy in \The main tainence of the level attained Criminal Code,\ and played the bit by the three upper classes last part of the \boss\ in Elmer Rices yeat', .there is a variation of only \'I;'he Adding Machine,\ will .play one :man in the numbers in each Rector Kroll. cla.ss who qualified for the Dean's The lead role, Johanness Rosmer, List this quarter and last year at will be played by Andrew Spezali, the same time. '42, who has never before appeared Vlhile 60 freshmen achieved in the Mountebanks Theatre. Dean's List standing this year as Albert S. Callan, '41, who gave con1pared to 54 for the Class of '41 excellent performances in the Play when it entered Union, the percen- Production vehicles last year and tage of the class of '42 which made in \The Adding Machine\ in small the Dean's List is smaller, 21. per roles, will play the difficult role of cent to 23 per cent. Ulric Brenda!. La.st year, 35 per cent of the col- Harold He.ldrickson, '42, another lege enrollment was on the Dean's new member of the Mountebanks, List ior the first quarter. This year, will play the role of Peter Mor- 2S per cent of the enrollment has tensgard. won !·he same honor. The differen- Mrs. Viola Patterson, who began tiation is attributed chiefly to the her distinguished career in the umtlO'l\a) high number Of scholars, amateur theatre on the Mounte- 91, in the class of '38 wb.ich has banks stage in \Twelfth Nifht,\ re- been gJ.'aduated. turns to play the role of Rebecca Tb.e class of '41 placed 53 men West. Miss Mary McGee, who on .the Dean's List, one more than played Mrs. Alvin in Ibsen's. last year. The class of '40 lost a \Ghosts\ fo1· the Mountebanks, will man. by placing only 51 this quar- play Madam Helseth. let·; and the class of '39 also lost a \Rosmersholm\ will be presented man. as they qualified 71 men for on the campus March 3, 4, and 6, the Dean's List for this q_ uarter- and repeated in Albany on March 9. Arllland Feigenbaum. Faculty Interests Varied, Many Writing, Speaking A canvass of the extra-class a<Jtivities of as many faculty members as could be found in their offices by the Freshman Staff shows that many members are writing books and papers on their researches while others are interested in many diversi:tlecl ex' ra-class activities. The partial summary follows: (~---- of the College, urged students to Clark se~ks Sex Light support the Graduate Council plan Ea.ton Finisbing Book club indicates unusual success in this field. The Radio Club has a few for-mal meetings. The gatherings are used by members to cooperate in .build- ing some radio-electric mechanical device. The club's officers are: Ronald Fisk, '40, president; Francis Duni- gan, '40, business manager, and Reuben Merchant, '39, secretary. Dr. Sylvester Haefner, of the Elec- trical Engineering field, acts as graduate adviser to the groap.- Armand Feigenbaum. Dale Preparing Two Day Biological Show First Biological Photographic Exhibit Scheduled for Dec~ 9 Tre biology field will sponsor a biological photographic exhibition in the main laboratory of the Bi- ology Building Friday and Satur- day, December 9 and 10. It will be under the direction of Dr. Ernest E. Dale and will include plants, animals, photomicrographs, which were taken by Dr. Allan C. Scott, also of the Biology field, an.d illus- trations of experimental set-ups and biological techniques. The exhibition will be a coopera- tive one, with private as well as institutional contributions being sent in. All the Inernbers of the Bi· ology departments of colleges with- in a hundred miles have been aslted to contribute photographs. Uses State l'la.terial Material has been received from museums, the State Conservation Department at Albany, the Biologi- cal Photographic Association, U. S. Forest Service, the Schenectad~ Camera Club, Haskins Laboratory, and the members .of the Biology staff. According to Dr. Dale, the Biological :Photographic Associa- tion collection is of special inter- est as it includes a very wide range of biological material, and the pho- tographs are all the work of ex- perts. For the convenience of the visi- tors living outside the immediate vicinity of Schenectady, the show- ing is planned to €xtend over two days.--Alexander Arony. ---o--- Glee Club Sets Concert Dates FRED HEQUEMEOURG Arthur 6 Covers' National Pubilicity For College Receive 4,000 Requests From 47 States and Ten Foreign Countries Swamped by requests, long past the \deadline.\ the College News Bureau was unable to give exactly how many \first day covers\ it is handling for the commemorative Chester A. Arthur 21-cent stamp issued today simultaneously in Washington and at Union College. Last night the count was 3,159 covers, and since then more than 700 addition requests have been telephoned and mailed. The longe:>t telephone requests came from Savannah, Ga., and from Washington, D. C. The mailed re- quests came from 47 of the 48 states (Nevada missing), Washington, D. C., the territory of Hawwai, Cuba, and 10 foreign countries- Belgium, Canada, Czechoslovakia, England, Finland, Germany. Hun-· gary, Poland and Tasmania. Alumni Assist Seeks Positive, Practical Action Leslie Paffrath Named To Draw Program For National Support While differing on the emphasis :.o be placed on their program to aid the Catholics, Jews, and liberals percesuted by Nazi Germany, the anti-Nazi intercollegiate committee of the capital district voted unani- mously that the best \practical\ policy for college students to fol- low is to give whole-hearted· sup- port to the U. S. government's joint program with Britain to resettle these refugees in British Guiana and in German colonies in Africa. A committee, headed by Leslie Paffl'ath, '39, president of the Union Christian Association, was appoint- ed to draw up a program for re- submission to the six colleges rep- resented in the committee and, if passed, to press for national sup- pmt from colleges throughout the country. This support would largely mean raising funds with which to resettle refugees. Yunich Presides This action followed another long discussion by the delegates-simi- lar to that last Wednesday - in which various points of view held by their respective college students were explained. David L, Yunich, '39, president of Union Student Council, presided ovet· the meeting in Hale House where 22 student delegates and Dr. ;.\forman A. Bennetton attended. Among the students was Edward Jackman, the St. Andrews Univer- sity exchange student. N. S. F. A. May H..Jp Many interesting communications were received with the requests, but most interesting was th~ letter from Charles Pinkerton of Mount The method of gaining the sup- Kisco, N. Y., who is the son-in-law port of the nation's colleges in the of Chester A. Arthur, having mar- movement to aid the victims of ried his only <and now deceased) Nazi Germany, initiated by The daughter. Mr. Pinkerton's father Concordiensis, will be through the attended Union for three years cooperation of the National Stu- with the class of 1858. dent Federation of America, and Dr·. Egbert K. Bacon, Chemistry college editors, believed the repre- field, Dudley T. Hill, '07, editor of sentatives of Russell Sage, R.P.I., th.e Schenectady Gazette, and Elris Siena, St. Rose, Skidmore and T. King, '05 of Washington, D, C., Union. whose son is a freshman in Union, The speakers, however, were still and Postmaster Moffett were laud- inclined to conservatism in assum- ed for theii: \indispensable coop- ing responsibility for any definite eration in making possible cancel- program. Most conservative was lation of the first stamp in the Paffrath. His committee's report. presidential series outside of the it is therefore expected, will be a city of Washington,\ by Milton M. \middle of the road\ recommenda- Enzer, director of the News Bu- tion, but it is hoped, effective reau who arranged this project to enough to enlist the active support honor President Arthur who was of college students everywhere. graduated from Union in 1848. This report will be mailed to the The cachet bears a photograph of member colleges before formal ac- North College in which Arthur lived tion is taken Wednesday, Novem- .vhile a student 1 ber 20, in Hale House. Dr. Scott Tries to Classify Beetle That Eats Its Mother and Brothers Dr. Allan C. Scott of the Biology fiield is studying the Micomultus Debiles, a lit! le bettie that eats its own mother. Dr. Scott discovered was that when he detached the first born male from its male producing larval mother, this \rescued\ female then produced only females. \This is about the craziest insect that has ever been discovered, and there are hundreds of insects which have been found and classified,\ said Dr. Scott. by which students will receive the Dr. Leonard H. Clark, Biology Alumni Monthly for as many years field, will continue working with after they leave college as they the State Conservation Commission have :axed themselves $1 while on the effect of light upon the re- undergraduates. He made his plea production of game blrds. This sum· in chapel-assembly this morning mer Dr. Clark worked on the t'e- when he explained the value of the action of lighl upon the reproduc- Alumni Monthly, which he edits, tive cycle of the Atlantic Palolo is to \preserve a good future for a worm. This animal reproduces by brilliant past\ - that is, the stu- casting off the sexual organs which dents• undergraduate days. farm its posterior end. The organs Dr. hTeodore H. ~atan, Biola~ on his book on comparative ana- field, has \made a good beginning\ ing. he is carrying on extensive re- to:ny. In connection with this writ- Rollin Twining, '39, Glee Club sea 1 ·ch with fish.~Keith McCand- manager, announc€d that the first This beetle has two types of fe- males, one produces males and the other produces only females. The young beetles are produced with- out fertilization, the mother forms eggs while she is still in the larva stage. The first male bee·.le that is born from the male producing larval mother attaches himself to her posterior end and consumes both her and his unborn bi·others. This little Micromultus Debiles beetle, which is only three milli- meters long when an adult, is so strange that it has not yet been classified. It stands alone in the line of beetles and has no known relatives that might aid in its class- ification. He pointed out that unless the rise to the surface of the sea where voluntary tax plan is adopted, the they burst when they encounter students would be too busy during sunlight. Dr. Clark's work proved the first years after graduation to that. in compete darkness .there remember the Alumni Monthly and was no sexual activity at all, and thus they would \sever their con- that any extra light added to the nection with the activities of the· m·dinary daylight would change college which had afforded them .the reproductive cycle. Keith Me- such happy days.\ Candless~ ' 1 ess. public appearance of. his singe~s E1nblem Teaches Bankei'S will be at the Alumm Smoker m ' ·Albany, on November 30, when the Dr. Donald J. Emblen conducts a double quartet will sing. weeki?' clasi! in principles of ac- The entire club is to give its first cou.ntmg_ befo_rc a group of banlters concert Dec. 2 at Ballston. Spa. at Ca.na.]ahatle. Later .. this year ~e This will be followed by another will giv~ a .. course on Insurance m concert at Albany on February 11. Economrcs to a group of Albany In addition the club is tentatively insurance men.-:-Jason A Tepper scheduled to sing in New York and Grover Workmg on Handbook vicinity Februar·y 17, 18, in Bing- Professor Frederick W. Grover's ham ton on March 5, 6. and in Hart- book on astronomy which was pub· ford sometime in the spring.~Glenn (Continued on Page 4) Stevens. All the female beetles from the female producing larval mother are born together and attaclr the moth· er in a group. These female beetles may develop into sterile femalt'S or into either a mate or female produc- ing larval-mother. The adult bee- tles arc assumed to be functionless and live for a shoht time only. Another strange phenomenon that Dr. Scott has been studying this cannibilistic bug for several years, and last year a man teported thai. he found the same beetle in a dia- mond mine in South Africa, 6,000 feet under ground. The beetle lives in rotten, red wood. Dr. Scott found his last specimens in some

Page Two THE CONCORiHENSIS, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1938 o.tnuror culat· activities are an important phase of his fmn·· year experience. The knowledge of sportsmanship and human relations gained. in athletic competition is .invaluable. The · practical experience to be found in the thea- tr-ical, nmsical, and j oumalistic fields in col- lege g·ives a student an extra step ahead when he comes to face the outside world. Eami:ng a part of his expenses is likewise an added momentum along the practi·c<l!l side wf education.-John L Grow Seeks 'LQst World' By Plane Union College Scientist to Make First Plight Over Wilds of British Guiana FoUNDED 18 77 \:1 Causa Pena Parole :1 ssai\ and ,:\:Jenlht>r ut the As~ol'iatell Collegiate Press t.~it:tr1hutor Clf the Collegiute l.,l'-\ig\'e::::st::::. --,--,....,--c.--.~-,­ TilG off1e1al m-..Hvspap~r uf the stUJt:\uts of Uuio11 Cullq;..:. PuLli:::;lled TUI...>~tLl~ a11tl Fr,ldap·; through- out lhl· P•Lt.·gt· yPar. .Editorial Rooms, Silliman Ha.ll, Union Coli<'ge Cant pus. Tt·lt.•ph<lllP, Sl'ltt•nPt tady, 4-0l:~:t l'nbli~ntiolt Oirlco, The Gazette l'ress;-3348tate St.~ i:kllenectRdy, N. Y, Telephone ·1·4141 Entt:.•rt:U at tlle S<·henectndy J:->uSt- urd-l-:-e-a-S-8ermui CI<L~s ~!:til ~lclllt•r. Sub::Jcriptton prit·.a F'ive l't!Ilts a eopy, $3.00 a yL·:if; Udivcrt.:U a.u~'\\llcrc iu the Clli!t:d state~. --------- Senior Board l<'redPrick W. llequembom·g ..... Editor-in-Chief l':ol Upsilon House-4-S710 1\lax I,en ..................... Business Manager l~apJla Nu House-·1~7:3~1 Robert C. Walter, Jr ......... Ma!laging Editor l':oi Upsilon Huuse-4-~110 Jerome Smith ................... Spor·ts Editor Kappa Xu Huust•- l-1:!31 Robert A. Saaf ................... News Editor 1133 l'Hlh.\\uoU U.lvd- ~ ~1.\~ H. Wyman Hitchcock ............. Copy Editur lk·lt.t Utr:-ilou Hlnl~e 1-7~J:!~ Juhn Maione ............... CirculatiL>n :\Ianugl'l' lii~Jl Kc)c:-. .o\\t•, -l-l.i9:;1 REPRESENTED FOR NATIO~AL ADVE:FITISIJ\IG 6Y National Advertising Service, Inc. Co/lege p,.blisbers Representalit·e 420 MADISON AYE. NEW YORK, N.Y. CHICAGO ' liOSTON ' LOS AN:GEL~S - 5Art fRAt~C:ISCO Juniot• Editorial Roard C Hu:J::;eH Dt:yo George L. Peck Ch1 i•tupher ~[. l'ahy Lmry Pei!L•tlier E<iwin ,\. F1tz. Jr. ENERGIZING CLASS SPIRIT Dr. Paul A. Zahl of Haskins Lab- or!lAory, Union College, lef: Sat\.lr, day for British Guiana, wher e be wi'll lead an aerial expedition that wiH attempt to fly to Conan Doyle:s \Lost World\ in the Mt. Roraima region, In making the announcement Dr. Caryl P. Haskins, director of Has· kins Laboratory, said Dr. Z9.'h.l'S -objectives are to bJ•ing back alive ra1 e s-pecimens of flora and fauna, includ-ing the world's largest ant and aerial photographs. The gTeatest benefit of college life is the Dr. Zahl will be flrEt to fiy di' fl·iendships we make and the companionship -rectly from Georgetown to the base of Mt. Roraima. of om· classnmtes. To accomplish this end, Last spring, when Dr. Zahl made a ·JWOI!'I'am of some sort should be .fostered ,an aerial exped-ition into southern ~ .British Guiana and Brazil, he mad'e whe1:eby the class as a whole is brought to- an extensive colle~ ion of live pon\ h f erine a-nts and discovered what 'b.as get er or a common purpose. This is the been described as the world's la:rg- service which is done by a program of inter- cot waterfall. He found a double , I · · drop on a tributary of the Kara- · c a,::s competitiOn. It mrites the classes be- nang River which is estimated at hind a common cause and brings out a feel- 'PPI'ox:mately 3 ooo feet high ancl ing of urotherhood and intimacv beLween another approximately 400 feet J high. classmates. Playing on a team, fighting side Dr. Haskins pointed out because 1 · ·d· 'tl tl d th' Dr. Zahl will use a hyd1oplane he uy Sl· e WI 1 a no let' man pl 0 uces IS same will \in a day reach his objective.' feeling-this link between men that binds for which other expeditions have· fellow teammates so closelv tof?:ether. Not lequired months of travel.\ But' J - !ow-lying clouds make flying €X- · all of ~~ class can be on a football team, or a tremely hazardous, so dangerous, ill.. basketball team, but Rll ean be on the tug-of- fact, that commercial transpmt planes go hundreds of miles extra,. 'Dl'. Paul A. Zahl, Hasldns Laboratory scientist and explorer. SophomoJ•e Editol'ial Doard l'~tul Ht::d\.l'l', ltil'ltanl Henyan, .John LL·\\oi~. Juhn !Jhili{J~, .:Xlortirner Hnhiu~. Hubert Schulht·rg, Lasl\ar ~t'>h\\alt .. JrmL·~ E. T\\illillg-. war-team. lt is a chance fm· everyo-ne to get following the coastline, to avoid together and pull together. tlying over these plateaus and Xew~ Bureau l'hut<•-Engraving. ::nountains. The only landing spots------------------------------ Business Staff l'~t lht~tt Ei~uer .• lrwl{ Hallinowitz. :\Villimn Coatt>l:l, Armnlld F'eigenl.Jaun1. ~tanley Green~tem, Audy Kay, .Ju:--ttn PL~rl~tt·IIL, .Jallli:'~ Y\IUIIg, I lotwld llah.:h, .\nhur lla\·i:~. The next issue of the Concordiensis- will appear December :Z Tuesday, November :l2, 1~3~ _-_..=-:= FRESHMAN ISSUE This issue of THE CONCOitDIENSIS is published by Freshmen who are taking the extra-CUJ'l'icular (non-credit) course in .i our- nalism as a project through which to leam If the feeling of mutual brotherhood be- tween classmates and a class solidity can be developed, a great step will be taken toward making everyone's college life a success. Association with others, working and play- illg; \Vith othe1·s, and learning to do these things well is one great course that we all _can take here at L'nion. lt is a course that will serve us all our Jives and may become the medium o-f our future happiness and success. So, let us all, sophomores and fresh- man alike get behind this and be all out there with the respective classes to hold up the honor of old '41, or '-12.-Keith :L\lcCandles. are the rare smooth parts in lur- bulent rivers. will carry for \emergencies\ are j the effects of val'ious types of radia- From the seaboard British Guiana· hardly enough to help them should . ,(ion on living matter. These studies rises in a series of steps to the , they have a forced landing, fm• no are being undertaken especially as s3.vannas, then to the treeless,~ one probably would be able to find a contribution to the world's under- grass - covered tablelands wh.icb them and they could not make standing ·Of the phenomena in- s:retch inland to the m;untains.'! :much headway in such short time. valved in cancer. The mouncains rise in broad I It was in this degion that Paul ~;,;;;;;,;;;;;,;;;;;,;;;;=;,;;;;;;;;;;====;;;;;;~ plateaus and tm races, eacb step Redfern was \lost\ and never separated by precipitous sandstone I found. scarps, and. are covered with im-' Haskins Laboratory has its head- p_enettable JUngle gr?wth, laced by quarters in tne old Physics Build- rivers and usually h1dden by th.ick ing annex, and has branches at cloudsthat have rolled up from the Harvard and MIT. The Iabora- Atlanttc. tories are conducting research in a Thus the 1?-da_y rations. ~hicb number of fields, being particularly Dr. Zahl and h1s ptlot, Art WIIhams, interested in quantitative studies of C I . THEATRE ' CINEMA By Joseph Enzer ~ [By A. V. Feigenbaum I ' SPECIAL THANKSGIVING DAY PROGRAM Wed., Thur., Fri. - Nov. 23, 24, 25 .DEANNA DURBIN in \THAT CERTAIN AGE\ 2nd \B'WAY MUSKETEERS\ the mechanics of newspape1·-making. The Class Plays Successful Hit! with Gloria Dickson After seeing Stablemates, star- cour::>e is sponsored uy THE CONCOnDIEi'J'- MAKE CIVILIANS WAR-MINDED A small audience last Frida.y night witnessed an excellent :pro· duction of two one-act plays Jlre- sented by the Play Production course, featuring fine performances by the student actors, brilliant tii· rection by Edward L. Carroll, a~d beautiful sets designed and ex:€cu- ted by members of the course. ring Mickey Rooney, we have a ~-~~~~~~~~~;;~~~~ very definite hunch that Jack Ma- I j Ji J lone's \Motion\ wasn't .so altruistic I ~ iii41f=' 1!- :- in its sudden decision to give a ~--;;;!!,- ~ freshman a \break\ by letting hir.~ SIS and is conducted by .l\lilton :\1. Enzer, '29. J:<\rpslunan F .. ditmial Staff Alrxander Arony, Neutral; John Grow, Beta Theta Pi; Joseph Enzer, Neutral; Raymond Palazini, Neu- tral. Atmand FE-igenbaum, Kappa Nu; KPith Mac- Candless. Chi Psi; Jack Pearrlon. Sigma Phi; Samuel Pm tnuy, Kappa Nu; Glenn Stevens, Beta Theta Pi; Jason Tepper, ':lleutral; Roy Web.:;ter. Delta Upsilon. FrPshman Advertising Solicitms StanlPy Greenstein, Myton Mi!IH, Justin Petlstein, Kappa Nu. INTANGIBLES OF COLLEGE Knowledge is the primary pil!m· upon which 1·ests the edifice of college education, Several weeks ago a panic caused by the misunderstanding of a radio drama \The War of the Worlds\ by Orson Welles, pro- claiming that New Yo1·k City and the East was being bombed. showed that the American people know nothing about protecting them- selves in case of an ail' raid. The drama was so realistic that thousands of people ran out into the ;,treets seeking advice from news- papers and the police but received none. Although the \news announcements\ only part of the play, the people reacted to it as though New York were 1·eal1y heing bombed. Had the statement beP.n true, thousands of citizens in the East would have been killed The first play, Luigi Pirandello 's \The Man With the Flower in His Mouth,\ was not so much a philoso- phical speculation, as might have been thought, but more of a charac· ter study. Pirandello shows tbe differences of thought between a man with an incurable malady -wbo has but a few months to llve an.d !l healthy man who fails to use h.is lmagination to bring conten:r:nent to his mind. write this issue's column. ou,· re- Thurs., thru .l\llon., Nov. 28th spect for Mr. Malone's film judg- Starts Thanksgiving Day ment has increased, however, afte:· Bob Hope • Ross In viewing the alleged entertainment THE YEAR'S on Proctor's screen. His empirical GRANDEST experience has apparently given him the ability to decide on a pte- LOVE SONG· ture·s value by intuition. In Stable- THE YEAR'S mates MGM has mixed together 25% Beery, 25o/< Rooney, 10% GRANDEST Champ, and 40% horse. The 25% ROMANCE! Rooney is all that holds up the picture. Getting slapped around by an endless set'ies of pouting littl<l squirts is plainly as monotonous t•l Beery as it is to the audience. His Exciting Night was the companio1. feature. We disagree. but there are other secondary post8 which needlessly because of their ignorance of self The performance of Bernard Krause, '39, in the title role, as the man continually noticing th€ small, usual occurrences in life to take f1om his mind the fact that death will visit him shortly, was the high· ~--:~~~~i L~gi~~~'· .. ·1 together contribute just as much tu a weJl .. rounded education. Perhaps these seeming-ly less important factors together with true knowledge are a step tovntrd the infinite goal of which we know so little,--true wis· dom. Away from home and entirely among strangers, a ~-oung mctn is given a faint taste of what the \cold world\ is like. He must learn to make new friends of the other young men in his position and of the olde1· student~ who have pas::-;ed thnlug·h his stage of the game. lie must learn to adjust him- self to his entirely new surroundings. He has to acquaint himself with a new method of instruction. He must leam to know his professors personally. The new student must also bend to fit his new morle of living, in a dormitory or fraternity house. The days of parents looking after the little !.Joy are over. He is Jtow \on his own\ and must look out for himself entirely. From informal talks given by the college officers, it is soon evident to th.e f1'eshman that a good deal of his ed ucatio11 is not to be found in books. He learns that extra-curri- protection during an air invasion. :ight of the evening. Krause s per· . formance had the maturity and One conclusiOn may be drawn from these brilliance credited usually to a =on facts. The civilian population must be train- expetienced actor. Douglas Murphy, '39, ably supported Krause, as the ed, as the peop.Je of England and France are Commuter, oblivious at times to trained, to protect thems.elvcs during an air the small chatter of \The Man 'With . f the Flower in His Mouth,\ and then attack. In these times 0 high powered suddenly, and perhaps for the first planes, and deadly gases, and over-zealous time, wondering whether or not he nationalism, it is quite possible to annihilate has received the full compensations of life, living as he has, in his own an America.n city ft·om the ail'. The larger world. 't' 1 tl At! t' t h h The Eecond and longer play, John Cl tes a ong 1e an IC seaco-as , w ere t e Galsworthy's \The First and the population runs into the millions, have less Last,\ also a character study, at- defense weapons -ner square mile than the tempts to show the fallacies of a .- supposedly good man and 1 he less populated cities along the Pacific sea- strength of character in the vvealt. board. 1 f the East, with its important cen- Larry Darrant has murdered the former husband. of his mistress ters of communication and transportation Wanda in self defense and c.orne~ were cut off from the middle western states, to his brother Keith a noted liar- rister, for aid. An innocent begg;ar it would be several days before the rest of is accused and convicted of the t h U 't d St t ld t 1 1 murder and when Keith refus.€s to e Ill e a es wcu ge over t le para Y- admit his brother's guilt, fo1· fear The Freshmen and This Issue \The Concordiensis\ that you have before you was written, as you probably realize, by new men. We have the Freshmen to thank for this issue. As we write this we have not yet seen any of the stories, but the facial appearance of the cuos up in this office of Silliman Hall, indicate that the publication of lhis bi-weekly is taken seriously, if bv no one else, by the Freshmen jou:·- na!ists. There is not a sign of a senior board member. A gentleman Bill Congratulations Class of •42 FABIAN THEATRES named Mr. Milton Enzer is th8 I •~~-b.­ only one here above twenty ( exc. us). We planned a little story abou! 1·-------==---==\' the boys who have taken over this Starts THURSDAY! issue but are afraid that perhaps THANKSGIVING DAY! we will not be able \to get a story\ A Great Holiday from these \story-getters\ if we Stag~e and Screen Show try; they can't stop to talk to l'S, not at this time of night and wiih ON SCREEN Mr. Enzer cracking the whip' sis and react to the crisis. The fact that the his own chances for a judgeship =illllilliiiillilllilii_i._ali_a_Biiiliillillll~ United States is completely \isolated\ from and his good name will be des-· Ill Subma.-ine Patrol troyed, Larry writes a confessi~n foreign powers has been disproved, and the and dies with Wanda after taking recent panic proves that the civilian popu- a potent drink. Keith, upon discov- ering this misfortune, destroys the lation must be prepared. confession, still thinking of his Government officials, newspapers and the honot· and good name and do.....,n comes the curtain. man on the street are blaming Mr. Welles As Larry Darrant, the wealdlng t ' d' · d' f d · h f suddenly become strong in the face 01' Jsgracmg ra 10 · or pro ucmg t at an- of a crisis, Jay Dayton gives a .fine tastic drama over the radi(}. The program performance, as was expected. ancl h ld b 1 d d b 't h k d was notably supported by M:l'S. s ou · e au e ecause I as awa ene Deming as his beloved one, V'lahda. the Arnerican peopLe to the fact that they But David Wilder lacked the voice II t • h an ex ra me for the frosh 11 GOLD'S Resluurant • Tap Room 631 STATE ST. t d f AI d A and polish necessary to make bls are no prepare ·or war.- exan er ro-ny performance a satisfactoTy one .. ·•••••••••••••• Richard Greene, Na:ncy Kelly Preston Foster, Geo.BanCI'oft ON STAGE \HOT FROM HARLEM\ with Gary Lee ·and His Band 40 - Sizzling Sepia Stars - 40 EXTRA! ON SCREEN \FERDINAND The BULL'; Wn.lt Disn~y's I,utest Sensation = Ha To San Jumin varsit sons, 1939 ( footb: su~ce AHI lead i undo\ \_lOst passil gene~ tr·iple Furn a bled ~vety Sar fined box in Hamr undel in 19: own J~me \VaS C track Ha: vice-J year, Garn has t ternil with tern it F~ cl H F F y c - l

- radia- studies as under- in- lNG 24,25 IN 28th In AY! - 40 0 • 0 THE CONCORDIENSIS,. TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1938 Page Three Warren Gammons, '39, To Coach First Official Ski Team ------~~~~------------------------~------~~----~------~--~----------------------------------------~~----- ------- .ii=J 1 =ca=m=.p=us=S=p==or=tl=ig=ht~~~·Engineers Lead in Major U Awards __ By .Jaci~ Peal'son =-=.·Social Studies Close Second Wittner Is Seeking Engagements for New Team Hammerstrom Elected Grid Captain; To Lead Dutchmen in '39 Season Sam Hammerstrom, '40, backfield ~------------·- --·--· luminary of Coach Nels Nitchman's · varsity foetbal! .earn for two sea-· sons, was chosen to captain the 1939 Garnet eleven at a meeting of: footb:~ll letter men yesterday. He su~ceeds J-acob Amazon, '39. Although Hammerstrom did not • lead in the scoring column, he was undoubtedly the man who set up. uost of the scores. His accurate· passing, hard running, and emer- gency punting made him the only • tri,ple threat man on the team. Furthermore, his ruggedness en- abled him to play the majority of ~vety game despite great pressure. Sam's athletic prowess is not con- fined t.o football. He is also college boxing champion at 175-185 peunds. Hammerstrom captained the last undefeated, untied freshman team in 1936 and was high scorer of his own J:i'rosh outfit. He attended J2mestown High School where he. was a member of the football and track teams. Hammerstrom was elected to the vice-presidency of his class last year, and to membership in the· Gamet Key Society this year. He has been a member of the Interfra- ternity Council and is affiliated· with the Lambda Chi Alpha Fra- ternity.--Jack Pearson. Triple Threat Star SAM J£AMMERSTROM Concordy Board Cancel Contest Football season has faded leav- · Engineering students rarely re-~ - -~- -~-·--- ing only -memortes. Fred Parks has ceive credit for being active in· ex- I . paclted away the last of the equip- tra-curricular activities, but a dose Bothwell, Henderson, ?-nd Manager- men\ and the scar-red turf of Alex- check of the college ·roster reveals ·elect Glenn. The Science depart- ander Field lies cold without even. them to be leading the students in ment was _represented by Brock- the company of the familiar bleach· the other three divisions in receiv-· ~yer, Pat r~eA Hammerstrom' el s. . ing a ihletic a wards. earns, an mazon. Block \U\ awards have been .l:i:ight of the 20 varsity football . Bill Ke_tz' pride and jo~, the var- ;r.ude for varsity service. No doubt letter·men are engineers. Social ~1ty harrters, ha':'e a dec1ded lean- the winnet·s of these coveted hon- Studies division has seven and the mg toward the sc1ences. F:mr of the JrB are satisfied that the long Science division has on!/ one. If bes.t runne:s a1 e aspiring s~ientists, .wurs of diligent practice drill were one is to accept implications, the wh1le one 1s a Social St';ldies man. well worth the effort. We· wonder if boys in division of litet·ature are Two men, one an engmeer, and the most tireless worker of the sissies .as far as being varsity foot- one a Lit, weare recipients of aUa outfit enjoys that feeling. He didn't baH timber. Even among the aUa caps. rece.ve E' \U\ this year·. 9.wards there are ne Lite1:ature .;tu- The fortunate receiver,; of fresh· Nels Nitchman won his Block den s, but there are seven Social man football numerals make no U in 19~J when he lead that sea- Studies, two Engineers, and one bones abeut their collective inter· ·,;en's e:even m scoring its 134 3cirnce student. est in Social Studie:; and have only points. This team, incidentally, is The following varsity football Jet- three Engineers and a lone Litera- the only team dutirrg the past 11 termen at'€ engineers: Balter, Krull, lure major. · ;ears which scored more points Lynn, Burns, Irish, Thomas, Ma-. The yearling runners are a· well' ·against i's opponents than the 1938 wtta, and Manager-elect Wells. Un- proportioned group. Two are Lit. e!even which, in seven games. der the heading of Social Studies men, one a Social St udie~. and three s~ore.d 115 points. come Mulcare, Molloy, Lewis, Balch, Engineero. -·Jack Pearson. For three seasons Nitchman has been head coach of football, His dis teams have always pleased the ;tudents, faculty and friends, were Jo:Jd examples of the traditional spirit and fight of Garnet athletic teams. 1938 promised to be a ban- ner season for Union's grid team. Thirteen lettermen were available and prognosticators heralded a bright season, Perhaps they placed Union's mentor in a tight spot Where too much was expected of him. Nitchman himself pointed to Varsity Quintet Defeats Alumni 'Sophomores Pace Many Lettermen For Squad Positions Shatter 4 Marks Wheatley Goal Bases Hopes for Year On Large Squad Of Veteran Tankmen Union College wiH be represented by its fi.rst \official'· ski team this winter, and the appointment of C. Warren Gammons, '39, as coach of the team this season, Professor J. Harold Wittner, director of ath- letics, announced. Professor Wittner is negotiating for meets with various upstate ·co-l- leges and hopes to have a full schedule drawn up shortly. Among potential opponents are Colgate, Cornell and Hamilton, all of whom are represented by strong squads. A triangular meeting may also be arranged between the Red Raiders, the Continentals, and Union. Coach Gammons will be ineligible for further varsity competition un- der college rules, but will' act as any other coach, having full charge of the team and its act ivi ties. Gam- mons proved himself in intercol- legiate competition last winter by taking first place in both downhill and slalom events at the Saratoga Invitation Meet against top-notch competition which included en- trants from R. P. I., SyrR.cuse, Co.r- nell and St. Lawrence. Gammons is considered the most adept per- foi·mer among the student body. ----------------. The mu-ch publicized clash be· many loopholes in the ballyhoo, but tween the .Junior and Senior boards never compla-ined or refuted the Coach Nels Nitchman is driving for a basketball squad that will better the record of last year's quintet which garnered four vie- :orie.s. If Coach Joe Wheatley's hopes are realized, four Union tank rec- ords will be better:ed during the swimming team's seven meet sched· ule this season. The events in which Coach Wheatley expects his men to shatter records include the 50 yard dash, the breast stroke, medley re· lay, and the 400 yard relay. Previously, skiing has been un- der the control of the Union Out- ing Club and teams have not: en- joyed official recognition from the college. Authorities have now placed the new sport on a par with other· intercollegiate athletic· ac- tivities with regular eligibility rules governing the .s!atus of members of the team and athletic awards.~ Jack Pearson, '42. EMPIRE THE STUDENTS LAUNDRY PHONE 4-6514 301 Green St. For a superior class we 'II take the ... Class of '42 For superior Food Products Visit the .. SUPER MARKET 242 BROADWAY Groceries Meats Dairy Products Baked Goods \Super Market for Super Products\ of The Concordiensis was cancalled statements. He began the task of because o:f rain .Saturday. Conse- molding his highly rated, but un- qunetly ar-c:lent football enthusiasts, tested, team. who love t.heir Saturday afternoon Three severe injuries beset the entertainment, were greatly disap- squad before lt first game. Bill pointed. Thomas broke his hand catching By special r-equest, if not by offi- passes and Jim Mulcare and Bobby cia! order, the jolting journalists Garnett were permanently retired should arrange to satisfy their in a disastrous scrimmage which public with a contest before the replaced the canceled Colby game. snow begins to fly.-Jack Pearson. Later AI Halavin, biggest tackle, ----------------- was forced to give up football be- Frosh Win '87 Cup, In Lacrosse The Freshman lacrosse team took a forfeit victory over the combi- nation .Tu.nior-Senior team yester- day when only two Juniors put in their appearance. This automati- cally makes the Class of '42 the college lacrosse champs, since they previously defeated the sophomores. The frosh will receive the Class of '87 cup s:ymbolizing interclass su- premacy. Fred Wyatt, racrosse mentor, plans to continue afternoon pr.ac- tice sessi~ns until cold weather sets in. When the finest hotel type barber services · costs you no more, it is wise economy to patronize FALCONE'S cause of a job. The average coach, who is pic- turecr as a \gloomy-Gil\ anyway, would be a very hard man to get along with after such a series of tough breaks. Nels Nitchman mere- ly squinted and dug around for re- placements. Other blows such as the loss of the first two games by hair breadth margins must have been hard to take. Coach Nitchman is not ra\.ed as overly optimistic, but he still had visions of a successful season. ·It is this spirit and driving foree which enabled Union's eleven to keep plugging and emerge from the Trinity and Swarthmore de- feats to tie Vermont, defeat R.P.I., and after faltering before Williams, smash to victory over Rochester and Hamilton. We feel that we have a great guy holding the reins of our football destiny and wish to give him all the credit he is entitled to. Would that we could see Nels Nitchman's name in the list of letter•men this fall. In order to discover the ability of his men in actual play, Nitchman is concentrating on scrimmaging them -in ptactice games rather than drilling them in fundamentals. The team will probably shape up as a small but fast combination. The only really tall man on the squad is Herb Watson, last year's high scorer for the Dutchmen. Captain Schultz, Miller, Watson, and Buchanan, all lettermen, are counted on to form the nucleus of the team. Among the sophomore candidates Ford, Canfield, Turchicit, Ciensin- ski, and Rathlev showed the most promise in the practice game against the alumni \pick-up team.\ The opponents' lineup boasted many former Union basketball \greats including Ralph Semerad, John Moffatt, and Robert Mac- Dowell. The alumni played brilliant- ly at times, but were overcome b_y the superior team work of thetr younger opponents. At present Coach Nitchman is carrying eighteen men on the var- sity. He does not plan any cut for at least a week or more. The full team roster includes, in addition to those already named, Juniors Carr, O'Brien, Palmer, Tanner, Busino, Mould, and Hutchins, and Sopho- mores Smi' h and Bartlett. - Roy Webster. Intramural Sports Rules II FALCONE'S tiOTEL Basketball notice of games to be played will be given after the schedule is is- sued. The league schedules will ap- pear in the next issue of The Con- cordiensis on Dec. 2. With little over a month left before the swimmers' first meet on January 13 against Trinity at Hart- ford, a squad of 35 men is grad- 1 ually developing under Wheatley's expert tutelage. Practice at the present time is being confined to slow conditioning, but already it appears that the natators will shape up as one of the smoothest Union tank teams in years. The schedule, in addition to Trin- ity, includes: January 14, R.P.I. at Troy; January 21, Swarthmore at Union; February 4, Syracuse at Union; February 7, Colgate at Ham- ilton; February 11, Amherst at Amherst, and February 18, Roches- ter at Union~Tepper. luterested iu 8clumectady lttlerested i11 U NJON MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Street Jerweler 166 JAY STREET Watch and Jewelry Repairin11 a 8pecialty PARKER and WATERMAN PENS Before leaving for Thanksgiving Vacation have your car checked at the ESSO SIGN CORNER VAN VRANKEN & NOTT ST. COMPLETE LUBRICATION BATTERY SERVICE PRESTONE TIRES VAN CURLER Plenty of Parking Space Eligibiiity--All members of the varsity and freshman squads as designated by the respective coaC'hes are ineligible for this com- netitioh. AlSb, any recipient of the Bloc'lt \U\ or \aUa\ awards in bas- ketball is ineligible. Point--Each team completing its schedule will receive 50 entrants. Also, an additional 100 points will be distributed among the com- Bowling Tournament Eligibility-Any student in col-· 1 ege is eligible to participate. laMV!!f~ CANDY SHOPS petitors. . Schenectady Engraving Co. The competing teams will be di- vided into three l~agues and the r.:!spective winners will meet in a round-robin tournament in which each team will meet the other two finalists in two games. Additional points will be given for victories in these contests. In case of ties for leadership in any of the leagues, the victors of the playoff will not receive any additional points. Points -A. team will be given 40 entrance points for competing. However, a team or gmup must actually bowl at least 2-3 of its game schedule to acquire these en- trance points. Sixty additional points will be distributed among the groups for competing. There will be no forfeits, as each absentee will be given 100 for each game total. A team will be com- posed as any five men on a group's roster. Substitutes may be inserted as frequently as desired, but a per- son who starts a game must finish that particular game. 147 JAY ST. ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORDIENSIS GAZETTE PRESS PRINTERS League Schedu!es~All games Will will be played in quarters of eight minutes duration. Teams not ready to play within five minutes after the scheduled time will automati· cally forfeit. A forfeit will count as a victory for the team present. A team will lose its entrance and participation points if its forfeits more than one game. Team man- agers must acquaint themselves with their schedules as no advance Time and Place - The matches will be contested on Reuter's Al- leys, located on Clinton Street. The games will start promptly at 1:30 p. m., each Wednesday and Thurs· day afternoons, beginning Nov. 30. League Schedules - The t earns will be divided into two leagues, as was done last year. However, the two teams finishing first in each league will enter the playoffs for the championship. CAMPUS BARBER SHOP Exclusive for Union Men TONY BARBERl, 40 Hours 1 to 6 P. M. Silliman Hall CA'NDffiS V01J'I..L BE TBANKFlJL FORl A box of the fresh Fanny Farmer Can- dies is the perfect gift for Thanksgiving and the perfect ending to the Thanks· giving feast. All Fanny Farmer Candies are mndc from the finest foods that can be bought at any price. Take lwme your bo~ today. Tltey're delicious. 465 STATE STR.Ef:T

I Page Four THE CONCORDlENSIS., 'li'UESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1938 ·Circulation Center Changes College Questio-n llox Faculty Extra Class Activities lucludes Writing Books Red Cross Gets $207, First Retu:rns ·Begilm:.n.g with the issue of Friday, Decembm• 2, \The Con- cordi!'nsls\ wiU be distl\ibuted at the :Student Activitioo Office, Room 3, Washburn Hall, be- tween the hours of 4::15 and 5:30 .p. m. on the days .of pub- lication .. N l\Utrals and frater- nity I'epresentatives may ob- tain their copies at this time. Copies will also be available during the regular office hours, 9 to 5, fOJ• two days following the Jntblication of each issue, -.Jack Malone, '39. Social Studies Club To Evaluate Cour·ses 1. What is the oldest .campus build- ing?• 2. What is the natne of the En- trance Gate on Nott .Str~et?'' A tetal of $207 has ·been collected • The intensive lnves tig-ation of up- _J>er-class cou!'ses is this yeat·'s pro- t Continued from Page lJ lished last vear has received excer- lcnt t•eview~ thus far. Dr. Grover i:; at present working on papers de- veloping new mathematical tables. in Union Col•lege's Red Cross ·drive: American Sucit'ty for Testing Ma- to date with several' sources still te1·ial~. Othet· rnembet·s of the corn- to be heard from. : g-tam for the Socia:! Studies Club a.nd will begin late in December, * Answe1s somewhere a:mong· the a.nnounced President Stanley Lieb- ·. ads. mittee al'e P.Jofe'soor C. H. Scholer In the facully division, t·eport::; of Kansa~ State College, and Mr. C. are Jacking from Bailey HaJJ, Di-: rnan, ~39. Each member of the club -;;=;:::;;::;;;:;;;;;::=;=;:.;;,~=~==-=.1-- will be assigned s~me individual fr , Armand V. Feigenbaum. Langsam Writing, Speaking A collection of documents illus- trating the history of post-war Eutupc, tu be published next spring, and a series of approaching speak- ing engagements are commanding Profe:;sor Walter C. Langsam's at- tention. DJ:. Langsam is scheduled to take part in a r~mnd table dis- cussion on \National M:Inorities in Europe\ at Albany, November 25. He will address the Middle States Association of Teachers of History and the Social Sciences, December 3. and the Schenectady Torch Club December 5. After the publication of his present book, Professor Langsam will start work on the life of Emperor Franis I of Aus- tzia. The :;tudy of documents relat- ing to this subject has taken him to Vienna for the past thrrP sum- mers. Jason Tepper, '42. H. Davis of the Amer lean Brass vision of Literature, Biology· Hail,' Company. ·and the Libra-ry. Fra.tet·nities -not Th•· Du<ilPv Mrda.t i~ named in yet r 0 ported m<> Alpha Delta Phi, ioonor of the' fir8t president of the Chi Psi, Delta Chi, Delta Phi, Rappa American Society for Te<:lting Ma-. Alpha, Kappa Sigma, Lambda Chi tcrinls. It l;' an annual RWHI d to _Alpha, Phi Gamma Delta,, Phi the autho1 of an outstanding papet, Sigma Kappa, Pyramid: Clull;. and and is presented on an original eon- Sigma Chi. ]}ieee of research which he will carry on throughout the academic year. T.he method of ·l'esea,rch will 'be patterned after a. similar \very· successful\ program,of the club two . )\ears ago. The club's recommenda- · I ions influenced t-he. courses' syllaibi. l(etz Mobilizes Ushe1·s Two extra curricular activities engage the attention of Coaeh Bill Kctz when he is nol with hb track teams, the chairmanship of the house committee of the Faculty Club and his development of the Sunda:,· Chapel ushering squad. \The int-erest of the 22 ushers is so inten;e that thel'e will never be a lack of ushers for college func· tions,\ says Mr. Ketz, who wants it known that any desiring to par- ticipate in this group will be we l- eo mE>. tributioH to research in materials at the o;ociety'.s )'early meeting. The following sums. were .received in the various faculty groups: Ad- Or. Schmidt 'Writes Paper ministration Building, S22; -Build- \The American Chemical Society ing and Grounds Staff, $23; Chem- .Joumal\ publishes a paper in its· istry Building, $10; Civil Engineer-. ;c.Jovembet is:;ue d<>aling with Dr. ing Building. $13; Electrical Engi- FrPdPric c. Schmid 's most recent neering Building, $9; Geolog-y HaH, rp,:;earch in liquid ammonia. For $2; Gymnasium, $10; Hale Rouse, many yem·.,; Dt'. Schmidt has made $7; Physics and Psychology Build- tnbulations upon the heats of solu- ing, $11; Silliman Hall, $2; 'Social tions of sub~tances dissolved in li- Studies Division, $12, and Wash- quid ammonia.- -Samuel Portnoy. burn Hall, $11. Fraternities repor!ed the foHow- Silber Writes Tribute ing: Beta Theta Pi, $5; Delta D1 G:ll·don R. Silber, Language Upsilon. $10; Kappa Nu, $8; Phi fiPld. contJibuted- \Thr·ep Sonnets Delta Theta, $5; Phi Sigma Delta, of the Tec!\nto.\ to the zecPnt is:;ue $5; Psi Upsilon, $5; Sigma Phi, $7; c.:f \ltaHca\ whirh the American Theta Delta Chi, $3, and Thcela Nu Scciety of Italian Teacher<' dedi- Ej>lison, $2. Neutrals, $4; Not·th eated to Kennedy Mc-Kenzie who College, $5.46; South College, $9, ha~ retired f'\ pro!e«br of Italian and Oldgym Hall, $5.---Ja.son A. at ljt i-nc<>ton Dr. Mc-Kenzie, for mer Tepper. '42. teacher of SilbeJ·, taught at Union ---o--- dudng 1895-98 Teachus to Hear Stanley Dt·. Phili·p Stanley. ·social Studie:o, is sc'heduled to address a m€eting of the :Middle States aswciation of Teacht>rs of History and the Social Science' in the Old Chapel Decem- ber 3 J aeon A. Tepper. Waing-er Edits Guide Books Idol to Be Issued< After Vacation Bellevue Qualiiy Bakery Present Portraits Of March, Webster .:: .. , 2625 Broadwa3- Fhone 4-6248 Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox -presented i two new pot traits on behalf of the,. BREAD - RGLLS . PASTRY alumni in cha·pel Friday, one {)f Dr. John L. March, and the other ~ of Ha-rrison E. Webster, '68. =r;;;;;;;;~~;;;;;;;;;;;;~~ Dr. March is well know to allJ Union meB and is a senior member,: of the faculty. Dr. Fox said. \He is · one of the great spir-its of Union who.-e brilliance and a·bility as a critic is known to aH.\ His ,por- tra.it, in a chaJactelistic .poEe, waE S u·1y S CLEANED • 1 PRESSED done by MrE. Schoolcraft. Preoident Webster' entered Union Co'llege in 1859, but left in his soph- omore ye11.1' to fight in the Union army. He returned aftez· the war , and was graduated in 1868 with highest honors Starting as a tu- tor he finally became p10fessor of Biology. He was one of the moet in·fluential and popular members of the faculty. However, his strong perconality eau,ged diEagreemeni :1 and he left Union for Roche:;ter. · He was recalled five ye·ars later to ·become .president up,cn the deman·d TWO SUlii\S Cleaned and Pressed BOTH : 930 FOR · Call for and Deliver \For Students Who Care\ G&G CLEANERS DYERS of the student body. During his' six ~ears as p1esident, the college 1\L--------------' pro!' pet ed and almost doubled itE 12 El S Phone 3-1775' Lanabee at Research The fit <t chapter of the volume being written by ten famou, Amer- kan philompher\ ha\ recently been completed by Dr Harold A. Lana- bee. Soda! Studies. In addition, Dr. Lanabee i::; booli ecitor of the \Joumal of P.hilc•oph~·\ and has publi,hed \evE'ral review:< in \Et-h- ics\ and \Philosophical Review\ Jamn A. Tepper. Professor Bertrand M. Wainger, English Field, ls directing a staff of 165 in the research. writing and editing of guide books for the Fed- Pral Writers' Project of New York StatP. Already published are guide books for· Rochester and Monroe County, Dutchess County, and the 1 \The Idol, Union's quarterly mag- azine, which was scheduled to come out today, will be distribute<! to thP faculty and students on tbe Mon- day following the Thanksgiving vacation because of a. misunder- standing in New ~ork about sev- eral master plates for advertise- ments,\ said Lon Barringct·, editor. emollments.--Keith McCandless m t. ~~~~- FREIHOFERS BREAD :-: CAKE . . ROLLS BELLINGER PAINT CO. Arthur Trigg, Prop, Paints, Oils, Varnishes, Glass, Brushes and Wall Paper City of Albany. A State Guide book 1 Daily Delivery Direct 126 BROADWAY i.s now in pnos and will be issued 1 to Your Home in the sprmg under the auspices \ Luhr Writing Book of the New Yotk State Historical l'::::====:::T::;E::;L=, ::;::; 6 42 = 24 ::: ====:=.!..! As:; oc i a ti on. And the project is also -~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;; Dr. ()\•erton Luhr. just rPt urnPd fr·om a year's leavl\ of ab~ence. is busy wr·iting a book dPaling with physie::; in popular form and ex- ]}ects to have it published in 1939. concernf!.d with completing an En- I - cyelupPdta of New York State for 'I the New York State world's Fait· CommJssion and a book covering Mavor Writing Text Dr Jame~ W. :\iavor, chairman uf .thl\ biolo~y field. is wntin~ a book for th<> n<'wly formed tresh- man academic biology class The new boolt. whieh Dr-. Mav01 ex· pect>' to fini~h next year, will be lllu~tr a ted chiefly with p-hotograph< that he him~elf has talien. The new course i~ generally infnrma- tional and c~ver; the anatomical and natural ·hiotot·y side of biology including the studl·es of evolution. heredity, and the application of bi- ology to human problems. The new book may be called \Biology in the Relation to :Vlan.\ -- Alexander A10ny. O'RoUI'ke Pursue::; Lab1H Pt·oblems D1. Ycrnon A. O'Ruurkt·, a,osL,tant professor of go\·crnment. is direct- I ing the research work for the State I Joint Lc,glblature CommittPP invPs- tlgating labor probl('m.s in' th~ state. His two assitsants, (both Ph. Ds from Johns Hoplnn,;l, ate working in the New 1. ork City of· .fJCe. Jason A. Tepper the state by counties. Raymond Palazini. Weiler Read:;; ~ Hrs. Daily As he considers eight to ten hours of study a day nccessa1y and desirable in his field of sociology, Dr. Theodot·e C. \VPiler, instt uctor in the Social Studies division, al- lows himself I it tie time for other activtlil:!'s. As ~oon as his cxtra- curriculax· >Cir£>dule will allow him timl', Dr. Weiler expects to start work on a bool1 t•elating to some a~pret of the field of Hociology.-- Ja~on A. Tepper, '42. - -----·0-- --- Terrace Council May Drop Duties The T0rrace Council iH eon- o:;idering l'<'linquishing its pres- Put rampu~ functions and be- coming a \purely honorary\ so- ciPty for the seven outstanding seniors on the campus, it was learned toda:y. CaS. MOODY DOUW F. BEEKMAN Gasoline - Brake Service U. S. Tires - Motor Tune-up Exides - Lubrication Let Us Prepare Your-Car for Willfer 601 UNION ST. Open Until I I P. tv1. Phone 6-2351 LOUIS WASSERMAN (j)UA.LITY MEAT MARKET for daily delivery 354 Broadway Phones 4·3364, 4·3365 - Jay Jewelry Co. 3~6 State Street WATCH e111d JEWELRY REPAIRING Sayre Receives Honor :Profes,.;or M. p-. Sayz e of union College has been named chairman of the committee on the award of the Charles B Dudley Medal of the OPTOMETRIST Eyes Examined, Glasses Fitted ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;==:~ 115 B'way Telephone 6-5747 1 Lower Fuel Costs with 'blue coal' Three Doors from State St. i 1 Tr)' John Barcley Service Flour, Feecl. SEeds, Fertilizer, Coke, fuel Oil DeWITT'S LUNCH ROOM Low Price Student Blllldle HIRAM J. McKAIN CO. :S\~e~~PG!~'!~d American A·l laundry! I 1.!;~~ 3 ~ 0 6-~ 31 ~ 4 ~U~m~·Q~n~S~t~.~~~~~:=;-:;:~~=:;:==~P~h=on;:e~4-=44.~4~8~ for Good Health 1030 BARRETT ST. r 118-120 .Jay St. .rust Off Union I Opp. New City Hall ~~~~~~~~~ LANGE & RAPP PHARMACY '\Service for the Sick\ 638 STATE ST. Cor. STA'l'E & NOTT TERRACE We Cater to Union Students and Their Guests JAMES REST AU RANT 426 State St. - CLOVERLAND CREAMERY FOR PROMPT SERVICE Phone 2·426'5 919 State St. GUERRA PHARMACY DRUGS, P'RESCRIPTIONS, SUNDRmS WE SERVE SANDWICHES AND LIGHT LUNCHES UNION COLLEGE STATIONERY 29c 600 Union St. cor, Banett Phone 2-9419 633 State St. 226 Not+ Ter. 204 Union St. 1 009 Chrisler Ave. PHONE 6-3456 DESSERTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS FANCY FOR.MS and ICE CREAM CAKES ~ap;~ Jersey Ice Cream Company For Deluxe Coaches call G. A. Welcome &San 171 I Union Street PHONE 4-9444 CONNELLY BROTHERS DAIRY, Inc. 1858 Ham bllrCJ St. P H 0 N E 2-0 91 6 PEOPLE'S Food Market FINE FOODS and GROCERIES 1291 Rugby Rei. iB.ratrtrr l\ipfl §qn.ppr 1624 U11ion St. Just a nice walk to a good Sandwich, Soda, or a dish of cream. If you're enter- taining, we also serve a real dinner every day and all day. Don't forgel-a box of fresh made candy will al- ways please. MAKE YOUR MEETING PLACE at REUTER'S BOWLING ACADEMY 148 Clillt~»n St. J Lots of Luck Class '\42'' MURRY''S M. BOROSON, Pr~p. 'has cate~ed: to l!.lnion: students for 15 years wifh Light Lt.mches, Cigarettes, T cibacco, etc. COME IN AND GET ACQUAINTED Tidewater IPelr~>leum ProdLicts CARLSO:N.'S -- Automotive N~eessifies Norwalk Tire A.ssess(Hies UNION SERVICE STA.. TION Tydol Gas 423 Union St. Voeedol Oil S(lh'dy, N.Y. Con gratulcrtio11s! Class cf '42 Compliml'nts of the SCHENECT AD'f WATCH HOSP&:r AL 131 S. Center St. Expe1·t Watch Repair Service SUCCESS to the CLASS ()f '42 Why let the upperclass- men give you .a h.aircut? Come to ••• ART'S BARBER SHOF 118 Nott Terrace Answers: 1. South <!ollege; 2. Green Gate. You too will like tll.e ricli flavor of ARISTOCRAT MIU< CALl BELLEVUE :I)AIRY Free Delivery P~om~ 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Marllet OUR MOTTO ••Quality • Service Satisfadioli\ 598 i3'way -For Befter Values ,-·-- [ I' z.511 Vol. J FaU Of He1 Dr, He Fo1 Appl expect tomor1 rneetir of thE of H Teach' held i Old C: Dr. the at annou begin panel sib iii:~ in sec I·acy\ Helen Mont city. At E held a sor P Unive: Colleg addre~ pire i1 Pap noon ~ fessor sell S: s:anle ett V. Profe1 At script an e' 8:15 il dent Eric : subje< to G€ ley 0 Mee ter est dents said; feren< not h ciatio iee. I' HOUSE Gue At) Mr. is to Tidm: this ~ Tb< lcctlo Norw Grieg I. Il. Ill. Th• will 11 a. If follu; Erwi who Mrs. wins blan< cove: hOtLS quitE So 1 edltc As cepti well iSSUE ofT Johr Tow char vi vi( Gen cent eom· rath st~:r: Mou \:E wha seri• ing-

