You'll read below, my merry men, Of Mountebanks and Lowenthal; Of pedagogic contract bridge; Of Busha's poems plus Town Hall; The \Gas Light's\ cast; the cal- endar; The Block U dinner; Granville moks; AD. Amherst trip; lnslll'SJ:lce Plan; For :fm.'ther in:fo see page six. z.sn . ~ .. ~:::~ t • t:j ;' 'd 0- I' • w ~rEt -= ';:l::>\~'- ~·.,.::;;r=· 2= ~ - ... ~~~ .., 0.,\' \'r:;.\' I= ....... \':;; ~ < ~ P>IO::SO.m ..,o.,.,...,,.. )> 7 ~qg ~ :?'\1j('Dcn~:s~l-1=o ~ r- I f£l 'i I - (tl !XJ Jo:il -----·--- ----·- . ', \. [) ~ .. - ~- \ ... StS ~~~ ti'< ii!!; 1:!<:1' ii!!; H' (0 ~1 \' ? \' ~::s 7- 'i\ . .,. @d ~~ide~ friends;. you'll please to filid The sports results and colU:tnns too; And voicings of the student mind Upo:Q. the current BaJ.e Honse stew. And; while yo11're at it, you should note The Prexy-'s letters a.Ccents cool, And countless adS which you can quote. And don't fo•·get, Ws April Fool. Vol. LXI., No. 46 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., APRIL FOOL'S DAY, 1938 PRICE FiVE C:ENTS Faculty Ahead Again . Noses Out Student Bridge Fiends in Finals Tuesday Seniors Urged to Think About CIa s s Insurance Thursday, March 31. - Seniors were especially urged to give fur- ther consideration to the insurance plan during the spring vacation when they have an opportunity ,to speak with their .parents about the proposed class endowment fund, according to an announcement to- . ~ . . L d I Block U Dinner Opens Wittner' GariS ea Daley Memorial Drive All-Opponent Fifteen In Hale House Match Bows The faculty-5tUdent bridge feud came to an end Tuesday night when the facurty defeated an all- opponent team. by 5,040 points. The student team was composed of three men from each of the five fraternities which have played the faculty in the tournament. High scoring teams were Wittner and Garis, leading with 6,730 po:ints; Fox and Ketz with 2,570. The fac- ulty led at four tables, the students at three. The contest took place in Hale House Lounge, following dinner. Results of the series preceding the final game: Faculty versus- Sigma Phi-winner, faculty, by 9,240 points. Chi Psi-winner, Chi Psi by 2,050 points. Psi Upsilon-winner, Psi Upsilon by 1,150 points. Delta Upsilon-- winner, faculty by 14,870 points. Phi Gamma Delta-winner, .fac- ulty by 4,340 points. The Calendnr Tonight 10:00 p. m.--Hurl'lied packing of suitcases, laundry bags and sundry impedimenta. Tomorrow 12:10 p. m.--Recess. 12:15 p. m.--Mass exodus. Sunday Vacation; sleep. TUesday Through Friday Vacation; sleep. Saturday Vacation; sleep, pack, return. Sunday 7:00 p. m.-2:00 a. m.-Vacation; cram. Union College's eleventh annual night by Winterton U. Day, class Block \U'' Dinner, serving the dual president. purpose of officially setting in nio- Up to now, a total of eig'hteen tion a nation-wide drive to raise students, including three juniors funds to erect a memorial to the and fift~;en senions, have made ap- late George H. Daley, '92, and of plication for insurance under the paying honor to those students who plan. John R. Bergstrom of Ridge-j had represented the college either wood, New Jersey, and J. Law- in :intercollegiate or intramural reru:e Hennessey of Saratoga I sports, had an enthusiastic crowd Sprmgs, both seniors, made ap- of 300 present on Wednesday night. plication for insurance policies this Stanley Woodward, George Daley's week. successor as sports editor of the The others are: Robert C. Denz- New York Herald Tribune, wa.s the ler, Joseph Paul, Henry M. Seider, principal speaker, and J. Harold Preston T. Reed, Robert B. Shep- Wittner, director of athletics, made ard. .Jr., G. Edward Otis, John S. the awards to the students and fra- Wold, Winterton lt.r. Day, E. August ternities who had won athletic hon- Lawrence, Hyman A. Enz.er, Vic- ors in the past year. tor CC?hen, Richard W. Angle and Rehm1 Denton, seniors; also Stan- ley Luke, Alan C. Wrana and Johnson M. C. Dr. Burges Johnson, the toast- master, who was introduced by Winterton U. Day, '38, president of the student bod'Y, in tum intro- duced President Dixon Ryan Fox and Fred W. Fisch, '18, president of the Schenectady County Alumni Association. Dr. Fox and Mr. Fisch both announced the plan for n!is- ing funds to build the George Daley memorial here on the college cam- pus. Mr. Woodward in his prelimi- nary remarks declared that George Daley had been \a good alumnus and a good boss, and moreover, he wa.s a undque figure in the athletic and newspaper life of America from coast to coast. When Dr. Fox sets out to raise funds for this memof:lal,\ he continued, \he will be surprised to discover how many people there are - people wholly unknown to him-who will want to contribute.\ Turning his attention to foot- ball, Mr. Woodward commented on the fact ibat :l'ootball has been de- veloped! so that it is played more intelligently and with more fun for the players today. The wise coach sees to it that the players have mental and physical enthusiasm for the game to insure their doing jus- tice to themselves and football. \You have such a man here in Nel- son Nitcb.man,\ he said. Major athletic awards were given to Jacob Amazon, William Thomas, and David Miller. Ralph Denton, juniors. ' The insurance plan, which has been submitted hy two companies and sanctioned 'bY the Student ~o~cil, calls for at least a $1,000 hfe msurance poUcy with provision t~t first clivide.nds up to $100, which accumulates in about seven- teen y:ears, be donated to the Col- lege. This sum represents pure accumulation of interest and is not deducted from any money which is put into the insull'ance policy. Hicks to Talk Here Granville Hicks, author and edi· tor, is scheduled to speak on April 19 for the International Relations Club of Unio;n College on the sub- ject ''Why I Like America.\ This is the theme of Professor Hicks's forthcoming book, \I Like· Amer- ica,\ to be published in May. Pro- fessor Hicks has taught English literature .at Smith College, Har- vard University, and at Ren.sselaer Polytechnic Institute, :He is the author of \The. Great Tradition,\ a study ·of American literature since the Civil War, and of \John Reed: the Making of a Revolutionary.\ Since 1934 Mr. Hlcks has been an editor of the New Masses. and bas contributed to The Nation, The New Republic, Science and Society, and many other magazines. In 1936 he was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship. - .;;..:-:·f~Z\::~-;-~::·.t-· ~--: A Young Man's Fancy This is Florence George, who bas absolutely nothing to do with Union. But we print her picture anyway, just for the heck of it. Art Lowenthal '41 Wins A ward With Bromide Arthur E. Lowenthal, '41, was given national recognition for his ability as a photographer when a bromide print he produced wru> scored acceptance i6r hanging at the Fifth Annual National Col- legiate Photographic Salon now be- ing held at the University of Wis- consin. Thirty-one other prints, out of 208 submitted. received this same rating. Faculty members and students from 24 universities and colleges located in the far west, far south, and along the Atlantic Seaboard competed. The faculty pz ints wcr<> judged separately from the stu- dents'. The photograph by Lowenthal was taken with his Argus Model \A\ camera and entitled \Evening Musician.\ He processed the picture in the darkroom he has construct- ed in his room in North College. Philosophers to Meet Amherst in Roundtable The fourth annual \round-table discussion\ in philosophy with Am- herst College will take place at Amherst on Friday and Saturday, April 15-16, it was announced by Dr. Harold A. Larrabee. The gen- eral subject for discussion this yQar will be \Frederick J. E. Wood- brid!','e and Contemporary American Realism.\ The sessions of the discussion group will be held on Friday eve- ning and Satmday morning. The following students from Professor Larrabee's courses will participate in the discussions with a group of students of Professor Sterling P. Lamprecht of Amherst College: Herbert 0. Fox. '39. Henry D. Hart- mann, '38, Charles B. Honikel, '38, Bernard S. Krause, '39, and. Joseph McNeil, '38. This topic is especially appro- priate in view of the fact that Pro- (Continued on page 5) Weather Man Uncertain ------------------------~ 6 'Town Hall\ Meeting Changed to April 21 The \Town Hall\ meeting, spon- sored by Union College, originally scheduled for Friday, April 1, on the College campus has been de- layed until Thursday, April 21, it was announced today by Professor Vernon A. O'Rourke, chairman of the committee in charge of the meeting. The meeting is being held in conjunction with the Constitutional Convention which is to be held in Albany, commencing on April 5. The purpose of this \Town· Hall\ meeting is to focus the attention of Schenectady residents upon the meaning and the importance of this exa:mination of the State Con- stitution. Prominent political lead- ers, delegates to the convention, in- cluding Justice Charles Poletti, chairman of the Constitutional Convention Committee, Mr. Oswald D. Heck, Speaker of the Alssembly, .Judge John Alexander, Mr. Walter S. McNab, and Mr. Louis M. Kil- leen are to be present, and invit>v. tions have been sent to represen- tatives of many local groups. Originally it was planned to hav€ the Union meeting before the Con\ stitutional COillvention convened, but as the early weeks of the Con- vention will be devot€d to details of organization, it was decided that a later date for the \Town Hall\ meeting would be more prac\ tical. The ;postponing of the meet- ing until April 22, will also ma.ke possible the relation of the \Town Hall\ with the symposium of the National Municipal League, which will take place in Schenectady on (Continued on page 5) 0 Poetry Aired The poems of Roger Busha, '39, were featured recently on the program \Drearnin' Time,\ a reg- ular feature of WGY prepared and presented by Leslie Paffrath, '39. He usually reads his own poetry written under the pseudoym. Lloyd Gray. The program is now in its second year and consists of poetry reading with Frank Glen's studio orches- tra providing the musical back- ground. Mary Nally, soprano, is the soloist on the program. Recordings have been made of the past two broadcasts which have been sent to the National Broad~ casting Company in New York City. This may lead to a sponsor and a national hook-up. Rain, Snow, Sunshine, Hail Are Possible Alternatives --·----- IS> Bundgus, Hennessey I Cloud Forecast Too Get Mountebanks Keys Julius Bundgus, '38, of Hunting- ton. L. I., and J. Lawrence Hen- nessey, '38, of Saratoga Springs, were awarded gold. Mountebanks keys for their contributions as actors to the Mountebanks during their four years in college. The Mountebanks Executive committee voted keys to the two seniors . at a joint meeting of the old and new committee members Tuesday night in Silliman Hall. These awards are in addition to those voted last week. Roth Active Presentation of the keys-which are in effect \life pa.sses\ to Mountebanks productions - will take place at Moving U:p Day exer- dses as has been the custom. Hennessey played in three Mountebanks producers, \Twelfth N.ight,\ \Winterset and a prin- cipal role, that of a practical minded Senator in \Both Your Houses.\ Bundgus received a part last Spring when he played a memor- a;ble role in \Winterset and la.:ot week he gave another cameo characterization, this time that of a \hop-head Runch in \The Criminal Code.\ Bundgus also had roles in two Play Production Course plays, \Waiting for Lefty,'' and \Coriolanus.\ Improvements Suggested A committee consisting of Direc- tor Carroll, Graduate Ma.Ii.ager Eh- zer, Past-Production Manager (Richard) Angle, Production Man- ager (C. Terry) Ross, Student Business Manager {Henry) Steph- enson, and President (and Stage Electrician .Albert) Borden, are making a survey of what physical improvements aild replaCementS are needed in the Mountebanks Theatre. Mr. Enzer outlined the require- ments for pursuing a policy of \going on tour\ to the committee which is now studying his propos- als: the policy of choosing plays must take into account what is de- sired by \lay groups\ outside the campus, and speCial ftinds fm; traveling. Prediction of Weather In- cludes All Sections of Nation Eastern New York-Cloudy, prob- ably intermittent light rain Fri- day; Saturday, fair and colder; Sunday, showers; Monday. wash out. Western Pennsylvania-Fair and colder with high banks of dahk' (sic.) clouds Friday; Saturday, snow or hail; Sunday, light rain; Mon- day, likewise. Southern California - Fair and warmer Friday, probably followed . by Saturday, Sunday and Monday. Rotterdam Jet.- Friday, clear; Saturday, clear; Sunday, clear; Monday, murky. Skidmore - Friday, fair; Satur- day, fair; Sunday, fair; Monday, buxom. 'Gaslight' Cast The cast for The Mounte- banks' final production of the year, \Under the Gaslight\ by Augustin Daly, was announced today by Director Edward L. Carroll. The melodrama will be presented on the week-end of the Junior Prom. May 13, 14, and 16, The cast is as follows·; Ray Trafford, Henry Clay, '39; Snorkey, Robert H. Furman, •40; Beik, Jay P. Dayton, '40; Bermudas, George Conover, '41; :Peanuts, Bradfgrd Hastings, '41; Lily White, Tristram Coffin, '41; Station Agent, Raymond Lewis ',39; Sergeant of River Patrol. George L. Sabey, '40; \Martin Francis Agostini, '38; and Ed. DeMi!t, .James C. Wade, '39. ll

Page Two aLnnrv FouNDED 1877 \II Causa Pusa Parole .4 ssai\ 1937 Member 1938 J:Usodoted Collee>iale Press Dlstribu tor of CoHe5iote Die>esf REPRESENTED ·FOR NA.'TlONAL AO\IERTISlNG BY Nationaf;AdvertisingService, Inc. College P11bUsllers Represenrat,ve 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N, Y. CHICAGO • BOSlON • LOS ANGELES • SA.N FRANCISCO Tllt· offktal tlf'\\:->J·:tptr· ••f th•· :-:tudent:-< of ll11i\r1 L'olh•gt• l'uhlhdtt•d Tw·~da~ an(l B'riday_~ tlll.'lllrg-11~ lltll the eollegt~ Yt..II , Xtt•Jll durtng Clnt:-:tma:-: a11tl ~!•rhrg rct·t·~:'>t.':-.. ~ ____ ----------------- PuUlil'ation Offlt..'t•, Tht• C1rzt·tte Pr:e~ .... :134 Slttlt 1 St.. SeiH~llt'~'tad)-, :'\. Y ., Telt•phoue 4-·1\1 U ---1-:nre~cl :lt li.H· ~dll'.Jit.'l'l:t<lY Post tlffit•e a:-. ~l., • •lnl \:i.t:--:- ).Lui ~l.tltL-t 8uL:wriptiuu prh:e l•,ive 'ent:-; a copy; $~LOU a Yt'<tl': dellv~red auywhtre in the L'uited ::Halt\::.:__ ~ J,;uitol'ial Houn\ i:lilliman llu.ll, Union l'ollegL• Cnnrpl~~- Tdeplwue, Schent·ct'ad~ .J-Ul33 __ Senior Board Frederick W. Hequembuurg ..... ELiitol-in-Chief 1':--i L'IJ!'5ilnn Hrl1J:--t·-~-~71U Robert C. Waite!, Jr ........... Managing ELiitor l'::,i l'p~ilun llum,t..· -1-h71U Robert A. Saaf. ................... News Editor 1133 l'arl111o\t! Bllu.- 4·61~~ H. \Nyman Hitchcock .............. Copy Editor lJdta Up::silvtt• Hou::-e--l-7~~~ Jerome Smith ..................... Sports Editor Kapp.L ~u Uuu~c- --1-t::;n John H. GHmour ............. Busine\s Manager lJelta L~psilott lluu!-e-4-7!J:.!~ Marvin M. Miller ... A.ssociate Business Manage! KHPl•·t :\'u llcJU:-.e---J-7~:a Alan C. Wrana ............. Circulation Manager Kappa :\'u lllrU~E!-·1-7331 Junio1· Eoar·d C. H.u::;scdi Ut._•yu t:hnstophe1 l\1. Fahy Sopbomol'e Board l.itmrge L. I 't:t k: Larry Pellettit·r Paul Bcl!ker, '41, Etlwin A Fitz, Jr., '40, llnHald Ilnigh, '41, J•1hn Lewi~. '41, E.elmt-th .\lad\.eltZ.Je, 'H, John Phili11:-; '41. :\'lOrt1111~r Hobin~. '·ll, HulJt~rt. ::khut~ her~. '.tl, La~kar Sd1wattr., ·.n . .James E. T\\IHIIlg, 'll. Business Staff ~fax Leu, '3~1, l~obert Ebner, '40, \Valtpr· Fallm:, '4(), Stanh_,,. Gertz, '40, John iliuniiiger, '41, Pa\\Hl F'.o.J.irfield, ;41, \Yilliclltl 1-luwphtit-s, '41, Janw:-; lJII- Jll :.t.ll, '41. Issue Editors Lany Pelletier Jack ;\Ialone Hank I !art mann Friday, April 1, 1938 With thi~ issue the Concordiensis sus- pends publication until Friday, AprH ln. WE STAND CORRECTED, BUT- I u the last i::>sue of The Coucordiensi::; we p.l'inted the r<'sults of our Hale House inves- tigation. Since then we have been attacked b_y members of the college administration, a member o[ the faculty, and the waiters of Hale House as colol'ing our facts. It is un- fmtunate that a mistake was made in a mathematical proportion in a ~tory on the Hale House questionnai!·e conducted in daily assembly. We stand corrected on this point. The rest of our statements were those of the forty dine!':> that we interviewed personally, n<Jt our own. Personally, we have no fight with Mr. Cease, hut as we are the accredited ot'g·an of college opinion, we felt it our duty to bring the criticisms of our fellow students to the Hale House management. It seems that our critics have misinter- p:t•eted certain aspects of The Concordiensis Questionnaire, as distinct from the general sam.ple of student opinion. The poll asked the entire student ·body the broad question: \))o you find Hale House a congenial place ia which to eat?\ The average answer to this question would be affirmative. The beauty of the build,ing- and its furniture to- gether with the society of other students make Hale House a congenial place, but if the students were asked directly whether the daily menus wet·e well-balanced and if they were satisfied with the qualit~· of food received, we feel that the result::; would have been sta1tlingly different. The questionnaire aLso asked for suggestions for the improve- nHmt of Hale House. Seven per cent of the student body, of its own volition, suggested a more congenial manager·. This does not infel' that the other 93 per cent of the stu- dent body asked that the present manager be retained. Our critics seem to consider the poll more significant than the special investigation. Yet a good proportion of those who an- THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 1938 swered the poH had very little experience in Hale House dining. Our interv·iews were· College Reactions. To Hale House Probe taken from constant diners, who should have h '\'!' ·t ·p1 · fh Bl Comptroll er Comments ~sity not le.ct to muc ]Ju.., 1cJ y.lf> · acmg . e ame known what they were talking- ~Lbout. As • While I have at times diffeJ·ed . March 3(), 1938. widely with the C(}mmittee, 1 . 1 e-, Editor, Concordlen,;..,;; we stated in a previous editorial, ninety per To The Editor: spect their opinions and feel that I have been e:&tt emely interested cent of these students had definite criticisms :\1y sympathy goes out to your the o>tudent;; have not given them in the hodge-podge of criticism dl- complaining correspondent of the fair cr·edit for the worlt that tl1ey. reeled at the Hale House manage· to make. \Ve personally lJelieve that these Class of 11M2 who objects to being have done. ment, and should now like to ten- iltle! views should catTY mure weight than offereu chicken without the po~· Mr. Cease haOJ shown the CuUege drer my congi·atulations to The sibility of substituting quail on excellent coopemtion in making it. ConcorcMeru;i 05 for taking such a the questionnaire. toast, T-bon£> steak or Iamb stew. I possible fot: •a number of stud·ents firm, almost impartial stand on a d . 1 f p · can just imagine the comments of to work at jobs in the ·kitchen foundation of very critical and We appl'eciate the COl' la tone 0 rest- the steward of one of our fraterni- which•could be filled more economi- biased student opinion, as uncov- dent Fox's tettet·, although we cannot agree ties should a freshman turn up his cally and efficiently by full-time e1ed by the student poll. nose at a chicken dinnct'. If I re-, ·employees. He takes· unusual .pride However it :;eems to me, that The \that our ::;ituation caHs fur no ::>pecial nerv- member correctly, a Queen of in the meal;; he \erves and he has Concmdiensis, like little Seider's ousness.\ \\' e fee 1 that our critics are not France once suggested that peo- reason to. J feel it unfair that thpse Rollo, ·is bar kwg up the wrong tree. pie should be fed cake if they did important ·factor.s be l?~t. sight of For thus far, all criticism has been facing the facb. \Ve brought out definite not like -or was it could not get-- in the maze of m1nor cutlclsn:Js that broadsi'ded at the management, or stuclenl compluints of Hale House in our bread. . have re~ently appeared in your IDOl'€ specifically at Mr. Cease. Hav- Your columns have recently con- columns. ing been a regular diner at Hale news columns with the definite hope that talned suggestions that we· serve Very tmly yours, I:J:ous.e, and as observant,. I think 1 · th better food, offer more choices, re- Anthony Hoadley. as the immortal Hnlmes, I see the something could Lle done to alevtate e duce the wOlk done by the waiters Biased News manager as a bewilder·ed wolf <11g- friction. \Ve 1.1ave no axe to grind personaJly and cut prices. I have also noticed uratively, of course), following the that the business men of •the United March 30, 1938i leader and chased by the hound.;. with the Hale House management, hut it is 'States have recently been advised. To the Editor: In simple language, ·criticism of apnm·ent that the .regulm· dineJ':.l have. Yet to rai~e wages, meet higher tax:es On the front page of the Tuesday Hale House should penetrate to the \ and cut prices. How? I believe it. issue of 'rhe Concordiensis you 1ea- managing and not to the ·manager, most of the letters we received this week is high time that the students took ture \Definite Dissa tis:faC!tlon and therefore he directed at the · f th\ f t d · t d t a more realistic view of the situa- .among students with the M:anage- Administration and not Mr. Cease. lose cogmzance 0 · lS · ac an IllS ea a - tion and balanced their demands ment of Hale House.\ The basis of Perhaps you want to know why. tack US for minute inaccuracies. for better service against the cost the stoiy is the inteiview with 40· ·Let's ask some pertinent questions. · · f involved. students, 75-% of whom (.iJl other Why has .the student body not When we undertf}ok the responsibilities 0 Your· recently published state- words, 3() students.) state<! \in all been informed of the relation oi molding the e<'Htorial policies of The Con- ment that \approximately one out sincerit)' that the college dining the manager to Hale House? Why of every three U. c: students finds hall is not well managed.\ Eiii- have the officials of the administra- cordieusis, we stated that we did not desire Hale House an uncongenial place torially you comment .that \the ad- tion been so vague in replying to to make enemies, but if we could not print in which to eat according to the ministration should recogni.ze the criticism'! For what reason does recent Concordiensis Quest i o n- fact that the majority .of Hale the Hale House Committee exist ne\VS without stepping on someone's toes, we nahe\ can be rewritten with at House diners are dissatisfied.\ other than to be a conciliatory ff h \ H t'll · least equal truth-if you care to At the bottom of the front page house to appease the member~, the would su er t e consequences. ·v e S 1 · 111- write it that way-\Nearly three of the same issue you headline supposed representatives of the tend to keep this pledge. out of four Union College students \Poll Reveals Hale House Criti- patrons of .I:iale House? And why find Hale House a congenial place cdsm.\ That poll a:lso reveals that has the administration applied it;, THE GRASS, ALAS It is indeed gmtif.ying to note that Union men are appreciative of that seas0n to which we all point with ptdde,-Spring? But we view with alarm the tendency to play bois- terously on the ... Why not give the gra,ss a chance'? Remembe1' those immo1tal lines: \Poems at~e made by fools like me, But only sod can make a tl·ee.\ So, come on now Fellows, let's cooperate. Let's g-ive the old thing a chance, eh? IN THE MAlL March 30, 1938. :-;aturally we were all deeply interested in the three notices of Hale House which appeared In Tues- day's Concordiensis: the account of the :;tudent poH, the summary of sample interviews with diners, and the editorial. To ~orne of us, nt least, the weightie,;;t testimony was that of the poll. Ma~· I. in all fr icndliness, call yom· att<mtion to a mathematical slip in the opening sentPnce in the comment on these tables? The sen· tence 1uns: \Approximate:y one out of every three Union College ,;tudents finds Hale He usc an un- congenial place in which to eat, according to a futther tabulation of the recent Concordiensis Ques- tiunnuire:· The total of vote;; on that question being 462, the 122 negative votes constitute 26'K. In the Fte,..hman l'la.~s. whuse upinicn you rightly point out b of ~pedal signiticRnre. the figure is 21~·{. I note that those dt'siring a \more congenial .manager,\ as indieatPd in thP table,;, amount to about 7-~,. All this throws no cloud on the veracity of the report of the sampling interviews, but of course it doe.s weave be- hind tht>m a l>ackground of general student opinion against which they have to be inter·preted. I. ta.ke it that the editorial statement that \the ma]Orlty of Ha!e House diners are dissatisfied\ is based upon :he ~arnpllng intervlewH r·ather than upon the genN ,,, a! qu<'stionnaire. I am glad to 1 ead your sound and cautious com- ment to the effect that the shor-tcomings in the Hale House program can be corrected without a drru;tic channe cf personnel. There will probably always be some~ shortcomings in any enterprise serving hun- dreds of people. The history of American colleges everywhere warrants the stJ ong expectation that there will always be at lea.st a healthy amount of criticism. The history of Haivatd began with a riot in commons; today there is complaint ab?ut the ~oo? in the luxurious new houses there and m. the srmr- laJly endowed colleges at Yale. Frankly, that only 55'; of the diners interviewed believe that they could dine no better elsewhere strikes me as somewhat un-Amerlca.n. I have done some inward and unex- pressed complaining myself at college tables during this academic year, rcot at Hale House but at other co!leaes where I not inft equently have the experience of dlning. Let me give one menu with which I re- cently had to cope: watery soup, creamed crabmeat and noodles, cole slaw, five canned cherries and coffee. There was no choice whatever. At this excel- lent institution all students pay for their meals by the year, with resulting economics, but at a !?rice, sttnngPly enough, higher than we pay by t.he sm.gle meal. I sometimes wish I could take the ·entrre Umon ~tudent body . with me on my academic journeys !which account for a considerable number of my Chapel bolts), not only for their genial company, but because travel is btoadening,-or perhaps from this viewpoint of general academic diet broadening is not the right word. It is rather a pity tl1at the criticisms were not more regularly and mm e forcefully btought to the atten- tion of the Hale House Committee, through whom necessary reforms can alwars be effected. Your edi- torial remarks: \The Hale House Committee is not capable of doing this as it has no power, it can only auggest.\ I am sui e that no o_ne doubts that t~eir suggestions, supported by w1despread complamt, would be taken very seriously. The existence of the commit tee makes it unnecessary for any student to protest directly to the kitchen. We are all anxious for improvement in Hale HoUJSe as everywhere else on the campus. But I do not think our situation calls for any special nervousness. I appreciate the .space you give to this letter. 1n a sense, I suppose, I have my own \column~· in the an- nouncement period at Chapel Assembly, But it seemed a little more sporting to present my few comments in the Conc01·diensls where the students have an even chance for teply and coull.ter-reply. Cmdially yours, Dixon Ryan F'ox. in which to eat acording to the Ie- out of 462 students <Over half the soothing balm to every infectious cent Concordiensis Questionnaire.\ total student enml!ment in the col- outbreak of student oprnion in re- r had a steak served to me in Hale lege) who replied to the question gard to Hale House management, House a short time ago that was \Is Hale House a congenial .place to its relations with the waiters, rarer than I liked and might have in which to eat and enjoy com- and unrelentingly backed any move pointed this out to your reporter panionship?,\ 340, or mo1.e f.han on the part of the management'? as an example of the terrible cook- 73%, answered \Yes;\ This nunber, Perhaps even like the blockheaded ing. However, J remember the lamb 340, includes 72% of the sen:iors Charlie McCarthy, Seider's Rollo chops that have suited me to a T who Iep!ieili, 74% of the juniors, knows the answer. and the other well-cooked meals 69•% of the sophomores, and 7&% But let's get down to the l'oot and conclude that on the whole the of the freshmen. All these stud€nts of the Hale .House evil. Direct your meals are well prepared. stated that Hale House is ~ con- fire at your opponent's Icing, not h1s I agree with your editorial state- genial place in which to eat and pawn. Nicodemus. ment that \there is nothing so enjoy companionship. easily and often criticised by the Do you not think that is a rna- Unnecessary Ado average college student as the ques- jority? Quite as much of a major- Editor, Concordiensi.s, tion of food.\ It is almost lmpos- ity as the 75'fr of the 40 (about 1/19 sible to get a group of college stu- of the total student enrollment) dents to agree on the type of .serv- whom yam· representative inter- ice wanted. On the one hand we viewed? Does not fairness sug-gest have students appeal·ing for :more that such majority be given a head- choices, service a Ia carte, espe- line? And an editorial comment? cially prepared sandwiches. Others Incidentally, of the students -who extoll the home-like quality of fra- r eplicd toe the questionnai.re, 23 ternity cooking which is served (about 1/34 of the total student en- without choice of main dish or des- rollmentl suggested \a more con- sert. And I have a hunch that bacon genial manager,\ a figure that is and eggs for breakfast are not very Impressible because of its smallness. common items on fraternity menus. Ahvays conlrlally yours, Just how are these diametrically Edward .Ellery. opposed views to be compromised Waiters Protest in a workable manner? The main functions of the mana- ger of a dining hall are to serve good meals at a fair price. I be- lieve that the meals served by Mr. Cease compa1 e very favorably with those served at our fraternities. A man of very good· taste-both food wise and otherwise-who ha.s occa- sion to eat in many college dining halls tells me that our food com- pares with the best with the possi- ble exception of some halls which charge appreciably higher prices. Our prices are higher than those in some other college dining halls but I do not believe that they are out of line with the quality of the food served. A rather common charge for room and board is $500 per year. A man can live in our dormitories and eat at Hale House for $438 per year. I have given quite a bit (}f thought to adopting the fraternity policy of serving a fixed meal without choice at Hale House. This would enable us to serve substantial and whole- some food at a lower cost, which might mean a good deal to the many students at Union who have to make every penny count. How- ever, the insistent cries that we in- crease our already wide selection of choices has indicated that this move would probably be an unpopular one. In view of the fact that I .put in a year waiting on twenty-four ravenous cadets without any seri- ous results to either myself or those whom I served, I cannot feel that our waiters are sadly overworked when feeding sixteen diners; Not that I would recommend stepping the ratio up to twenty-four at Hale House. I recognize the differe.nces between the school where I hopped tables, Hale House, and the local hotels where you state that the waiter-diner ratio is one to twelve. About half the students inter- viewed objected to the parties and banquets served at Hale House. This cannot be fairly charged against Mr. Cease as it is handled as a matter of college p(}!icy and all outside parties have to bl>tain the consent of one of the Adminis- trative Officers of the College be- fore scheduling a functiou in Hale House. President Fox believes that the limited use of the dining hall by \groups which have csome common interest with the college works to the mutual benefit of the college and these groups. Occasionally I have met with the Hale House Committee of which the Chairman, Mr. C. T. Male, is the only non-student member. This committee has put in a great deal of time, energy and thought con- sidering problems brought up in connection with Hale House. The nature of this work has of. neces- Editor, The Concordlensis: We are taking this opportunity to inform you that the news .s.tory in last Tuesday issue of 'I'he Con- cordiensis ·regarding the investiga- tion of conditions at Hale House presented a vague view t>f the re- lations between the waiters a.nd the management of Hale House. The Concordiensis stated that a fair sample poll of waiters' c.pin- ions as to the nature of their re- lations with Hale House gave to the reader, at first sight, the impres- sion that all the waiters but one reportedi that they did not approve of the manager. The statetnent it· self may or may not have been acC\urate but it tended to give the reader a wrong interpretation. For one thing, several o:f .us; and not one, do approve of our relations with the management, and do enjoy working for him. Others whos·e opinions were included in the sam- ple poll feel that the inter-viewer put his questions in such a -way that .the negative answer was the much mere probable r espouse. In regard to the subsequent state- ment in The Concordiensis 1 egard- ing the a..ssessment of a ten cents blanket cha:r ge on all perso-ns at- tending banquets which is collected by the management, and the lower rate of fifty cents an hour for our services at the same banqt!:ets, some of us feel that the manage- ment is perfectly justified in sup- posedly eJCpropriating such a cha1·ge for the purpose of compensating various employees in the kitchen for their services. In other -words, thls blanket charge is n<Jt given wholly to the walters, for the sim- ple reason that it also helpso to compensate othe1• employees. We hope that his will clarify the issue, in that in spite of various criticisms at certain times, a. sam- ple poll does not show any definite nature of the relations of our our- selves with the ma.nageme:nt. Bale House Wa.iter s. Visceral Fortituc:Je To the Edit~r: For fo1· tll.e first year s:ince the day of the now almost mythical George Cc.ry an editor has the visceral <Hi; Dr. Ligon) fortitude to make an investigation and pre- sent facts that the administration would prefer not to hear. Congratulatio-ns! And you had better polish up on your arithmetic and sentence constructions. You can't affo!'d to be ambiguous when you al-e tna:king such serious charges. What we need is more ho11.est opinion, less pussyfooting. Hale· House :a:ellion. P. S. Hale Ho1tse food ha.s :im- proved already. Permit me to commen.t briefly on your rec·ent tssue condemning the management of the Hale House Dining Room. It is my opinion that the overly publisJJed writings of a certain H. M. S. backed by statements o.f a few disg1·unt!ed waiters have created a great deaJ of unnecessary ado without any substantial basis in fact. While it may be true that ther·e are certain faults in the arrange- ment of the diet or in such mat- ters a.s serving food cold certainly they can be settled without firing a manager, and. interrupting what is generally believed to be a satis- factory service. As you point out in yuur article, Hale House has approximately forty regular boarders; a number comparable to the number of din\ ers in. the on-campus fraternities. And in contras.t to the usuaJ fra- ternity ta-ble which offers only one menu 'the college dining hall offers a choice of food at every meal at prices which are approximately the same as those oct: most fraternities. This wc.uld seem to indicate that Hale House offers a service su- peri(}r to that of the various chap- ter houses. vVorking under such a condition Mr. Cease should be com- mend-ed rather than condemned for his work. Your main news story headed \Unpopularity of Hale House Re- vealed by Investigation\ takes sev- eral minor complaints. about food which are of a type found in every school dining hall and magnifies them to the point of being an ex- ample of criminal neglect on the part cxf the management. Thts cer- tainly does not re:flect any broad or intelligent point of view on your part and one might well conclude that you have stooped to the estab- lished H. M. S. practice of rabble- rousing. Sinc&rely, '40 ---0--- To Fill the Page Add campus fads: At Macalester College in St. Paul, coeds have taken up wearing a different color of sweater each day in the week. · Mondays the sweaters-and cam- pus - are blue, with every shade from aqua to navy seen about the halls. Coeds turn yellow on Tues- days while green is the next shade on the week's color wheel. Thurs- day is red sweater day. Friday, however, rules are re- laxed and the gir.ls can dress up if they choose. Students may work their way throUgh college without .fear that their employment will affect their scholastic standing, according to Temple University officials. Part- time employment of students by the National Youth administration was investigated by the university and it was found that a group so empl()yed made a better showing than a similar group which was unemployed. An official bulletin of the San Jose State College ranks love as one of the ten commonest causes for students flunking out in their examinations. Time Is given as the only cure. \Petting\ is classed as another common cause. F Fresl:l two me ·crosse 1 Wednes which ' and inc Frederi itinerar The enough lhe Po afterno· is WW Next 1': School provide lowing play he tice sch Uiday ' Marylai ten. Those Richard Colson, Max: E Green, nagh, r: ert Mot Richa;rc !on, Te· wood, J and Ch bers of Phil W Mr.\ the gr01 interest ranging homes practicE to atter pl'ivate expense board, 1 schools. Varsit: Varsi1 baseball for pra at 2 o Nelson doors, f Thursdf Alexanc ting. Coach culiar c In that out but days tb work. Keen for the tions w by vet Brockn< for the called and Do va!s, to ter. Fr~ ond bas been sh shortstc ankle, ' Bob Ga .stop st: ered b: scholast rival. Capta ass!gne• man to right fi Claude who 111: should:, Bob l Al Mou pitchin! Normal some b and Ha ing. Vars: Varsi practicE urday E 3 o'clo· Gradua will be nesday liam E work t the we• Daily varsity tinued noon d emphas mental: plays. Thos« the var ton, VE den, Al myer,' Jack C Fink, man,) brouck, Sumnel rence 1 ersohn, Captair neth l Robert veterar as Wa Jack \ Track Vars· riod fa be cut Ketz daily The t schedu

be di- o ten- The a on a and The tree. been or Hav- Hale think the (!1g- the ound.;, of to the the Cea.se, why. stions. not o1 Why to does exist the the why i~ in re- move ment'! Rollo root your hJS pinion ed by deaJ any thet·e mat- ·tainly firing what sa tis- din\ nities. fra- one offers eal at the that su- chap- a e R~ s sev- food every ex- n the cer- broad your '40 have color · earn- shade the Tues- re- up way that their to Part- by so was San as uses their s the as THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 1, HlS.S Page Three II TEAM NOTES Frosh Ten On Tcur II Attention! Football Men A !J(Jeeting of all varsity football candidates for the 1938 eleven will . take J!lace Tuesday night, April 12 at 8 e>~clock in the Trophy Room of Freshman Lacrosse - Twenty- Alumni Gym. All men intending to two members of the fnshman Ia- participate in varsity fo<JtbaU next crosse squad will leave the campus year tnust report at thi.s time. Wednesday for their vacabion trip An oatline of the plans for some which extends south to Maryland Spring practice work as well a:s and .includes four practice matches. the next season's program will There'll be \plenty\ a-brew- . . . he was on his way to Frederic A. Wyatt has planned the be given by Coach Nelson Nitch-· .Jng on the·camllliS today and we Florida to 1·ecuperate after be- itinerary. man. Jt if! further urgent that every do not me.an a new hef'r, ing bedr,idden in Schenectady 1 prospecbive candidate report ·so that either. for sonw time, when he was The group will departt ealr Y mea.etJ.rements can be taken and furced down again ..• lre'll enough Wednesday S'() as · 0 P ay equipment Ol'dered. Numerous poor fish will also 1 ,robably be thf're until June ... lhe Poly Prep ih BrooklyD that Eve1y<me is requested to bring have thei1 day during the rest of we a 1 e very much afraid t.hat afternoon. Poly's assistant coach pencil·\' and notebooks to take down the hom s of gay festivities left · · · the .sugge..ted reform in tennio cir- is William Eagleson, Union ' 29 · the .few critical changes to ·be· made but tomor.r·ow a good season of .poor 'Cles by George Lott, retired tenni::s Next Thmsday the Sewanaka High in next ·!:>'all's style of attack. , fish-ing actually gets underway · · · ,pro, would work havoc with F1·itz School at F.Joral Park, L. I., will at tha·t ·time all ye trout seekers D d 'f d th f 1 Hawley and Ma1 v wore an · sev- · provide the oppos1 10n an · e 0 - will be able to get into action be- ·era! of .the topnotch profs . . . the towing day the Navy Plebes will cause New YOJI> State's trout sea- former half of one of the gr.:atest play host at Baltimore. The prac~ OLD UNION son begins ... and you'll have to doubles ·combinations in court his- lice schedule will be concluded Sat- travel a long way to find a state h' 'd f S B BILL KE tozy has announced 1s r ea o a Uiday with the game at : everna, Y T.z, with a longer trout year ... for the smaller sezvice box to take some Maryland, with the Severn School benefit t>f those students who will of the premium off the cannonball' ten. be able to take off some afternoons seivices ... by the way, Rawley Those taking the trip include The earliest athletic contest in soon and get the arm in shape by· and Dwore will be together again Richard Balch, John Canfield, John which a Union team participated ·slinging out a fi~h line, we have this year. seeking to continue their Union's Fencing Coach This Year Colson, Victor Daneski, Ed DeFeo, was a baseball game between the listed some of the better \holes\ in unbeaten record of eight shaight MERTON L. ZUBRES MaX. Eisner, Brad Grant, Merv Garnet and the Mohawks on May doubles victories which the:y re- -----------------;---------------- 8-reen, Jack Guibert, Jack Kava- 19, 1&tl0. The team apparently dis- corded last campaign . . • Angelo nagh, Don Klock., Paul Mara, Rob- bande<i· after this lone effort, not Hank Luisetti, Stanford's wizard, ert Molloy, Ronnie Ostrander; Fred to ·be recnganized until 1864, On is all set with a career in the Richards, Paul R!ieger, Tom Scan- July 9, 1864, Union played the. movies ... since talking about Hol- lon, Ted Scantlebury, Jean Under- Amsterdam Club and won its first lywood, we cannot help but squirm wood, Jack Vannier, Bill Wardwell, victor::y by a score of 27 to 19. They in with this \humdmger\ . . . and Charles Wyman. Other mem- later lost to the Albany Knicker- Louella Pazsons, Hollywood's Queen bers of the squad are Eugene Fink, backers. In 1875, R, P. I. appeared. of cinema news, had this to say of Phil Westlake, and William Wolfe. on tiLe schedule and a series of: this vicinity ... Kinder·hook Creek, our Charley Coburn ... \Cbaz·les Mr. Wyatt, who will accompany three games played. The Cherry off NY-9 al!ld NY-22, stands out as Coburn, who scored such a bit as the group, has aroused considerable and White was victorious in two the best, featuz'lng brown trout . . . the doctor in 'Of Human Hearts,' interest among Area alumni in ar- of the:!ie contests. These games were in Schenectady County there is plays another medico in 'YelLow ranging the trip. Students whose the first intercollegiate contests in Lis.hakill, off NY-5S with brown Jack,' and if he is as good in this, homes are near the scene of the Union baseball history. Hamilton trout, Mill creek, off NY-147 with they'll probably have to let him practice games have been invited met ·U.S in 1877 in two contests but brook trout, and Shaker Brook, off start practicing\ ... to attend. The squad will travel in it was not until 1879 that the base- NY-5 with brook trout ... for you All ye basketball ma.sterminds private automobiles and pay its own ball team had a complete schedule. \finishing school\ commuters who might think about these sug- ex:penses other than room and In that year 15 contests were play- might .be able to sneak away, .Sar- gestions, which, if adopted, will board, to be provided by the host ed and only two games were scored a toga Lake holds much Jake trout... bring a b 0 u t s 0 me radical schools. agdainst ~~idonb Thi~ is t~e ~est ~~- Stan Woodward departed a changes during 1938-39 •.• these INTRAMURAl$ Entries for Intramural Softball, Spring Tennis and Horseshoes must be placed in the Intramural Boxes not later than Friday afternoon, April l. The rules may be found in the respestive boxes. ---0,---- INTRAMURAL TOTALS (Through April 2) Phi Sigma. Delta . . . . . . . . . . 779.140 Psi Upsilon ................ 774.764 Lambda Chi Alpha . . . . . . . . 76S.594 Phi Delta Theta . . . . . . . . . . . 748.600 Phi Gamma Delta . . . . . . . . . 744.009 Sigma Phi . . . . .. . . .. .. .. . . . 70S. 766 Kappa Nu . . .. .. .. . . .. .. .. . 699.685 Delta Upsilon ........... , . 663.997 WltES'I'I.I~ H TO'l',\'I,S All>lm. Delta. I 'hi ... . Theta D<.'lta C'hi .. . Kappa Alpha ••....... ~.hi lJelt:' Theta ..•.... Stgtna I ht .......... . Lamho!a C.hi Alpha .. . Beta Theta PI ..... . Chi Psi ......... - ............ . Ko.ppa Nu .........•.......... Phi Oamma Delta ............ . Phi Higma Delta ............•. Delta Phi .................... . Delta Upsilon ................ . Psi Upsilon ..•................ Delta Chi .................... . .!'hi Sigma Kappa ............ . :-.:orth College ............... .. IOO.UOU 88.172 8~.~64 7G.3aG 6 !.il·!O 64.540 64.540 58.632 52.724 46.816 46.816 40.B08 17.72{ 17.724 .000 .000 .000 Varsity Nine Having Trouble Varsity Baseball - The varsity baseball candidates will report back for practice Wednesday afternoon at 2 o'clock when Coach Walter Nelson will resume the work out- doors, f<Jllowed by double drills on Thursday, Friday and Saturday c;m Alexander Field, weather perm•t- ting. or c<>mpl e Y a a.J•ne nme. e bit from his original manu- questions will eome up for seri- worst seasonal record was in 1921 ous consideration at tl1e Na.- when bat one game was won, seven · script at the Block U Dinner tiona! Rules Convention in Chi- lost, ·a.nd one tied. This yeai' Union. Wednesday night, but he did • th ,_~ t tell this h · b't cago, April 7-8 • • . ey ...... v.e is beg1'nn1'ng 1'ts 66th baseball sea- 'manage o c OICe 1 h \ ti t the been discussed by coae es m Son . ...,o date, 708 .games have been ·of i n.orma on o press dlst · t L t N 1 N\tchma the Missouri Valley nc . · · played, The Dutchmen have won later ;_· · tha: 1 e s 1 id nd first, a proposal to abolish the Alpha D-elta Pili . . . . . . . . . . . 633.973 Beta Theta Pi . . .. . . .. . . .. . 624.645 Kappa Sigma ..•....... , . . 619.005 Chi Psi ................... 617.861 Kappa Alpha .............. 579.748 Delta Phi .................. 574.722 People's Food Market Coach Nelson is experiencing pe- culiar difficulties with the players, In that the majority of men work out but a short time on the few days they do not have laboratory work. 389 and lost 819. is beuug serwus y cons ere f for· a position as instructor at center line and place blame Ol' Neutrals ................... 375.978· Y ea.J'lings Have Fine Team Freshman Baseball - Coach Art Lawren~e has already found smooth workiDg infield and battery combi- nations that will probably shape up as the inner half of the freshman nine this year, but he is having some difficulty in devising a satis- factory threesome for the outfield. Monls WeintrauW, who is being converted into an outstanding in- fieldez· from his original berth as a catchel·, is at first base; Alex: Tur- chick, at second base; Arnold Rath- lev, ~t shortstop; and Dudley Holmes, at thiz:d base, seem assured of the infield nod. Roger Moran and ICen MacKenzie have stood out as the better pitchers to date, with Adam Ciesinski h<Jlding down the catchi:ng assignment. the Herald-Tribune school for stalling (In the team with th.e football coaches, which idea lower score • · · a pr<Jp()Sal stan ()r\ginated ..• Nels has suggesting the desirablli\tr O>f been -a student at the school using the tilree circles for Jump for three years nGw and Wood- baJls, instead of having a beld ward ilas spoken very highly of ball tossed up near the side- Nels' rnog 1 ·ess ... Lots of luclr, lines .•. should the end lines be four feet instead of tw>O Nels • feet behind the backboa1•d? • • • Coach Bill Cox has already as- should all games be divided sembled the University of Roches- into four periods? .•. is the ter 1938 football squad and has present rule putting the ball mapped out an extensive thre~weel>: into pla.y immediately afte:r a program ... about 35 Yellowjack- goal, satisfactory? ... if mot, ets are drilling ..• by the way, should an official hand the baU Coach Nitchman has been doing a to a player (a) at the en!l of great deal of research work for the court or (b) at the enil of U11ion's new style of attack next the division line? •.• wlre:11 a Theta Delta Clli . . . . . . . . . . . 375.047 Phi Sigma Kappa .......... 316.789 Sigma Chi .. . .. . . . . . . .. .. . . 305.240 South College ............. 233.750 North College ............. 127.957 Delta Chi . . . . . .. . . .. .. .. . . . 67.947 BOXL\'\G TOTALS I..ambda Chi Alpha ........... . Phi Sigma Delta ........ , .... . Psi Upsilon ............... , .. . Neutrals ............. , ....... . Phi Sigma Kappa ............ . Kappa Nu ................... . K''PPa Alpha ............. , .. . Phi Gamma Delta ....•........ Sigma Phi , .....•....•....•... Delta Phi .................... . Routh rnllege ................. . 75.000 58.320 51.656 41.660 34.996 34.996 31.664 31.664 25.000 9.996 .000 • FINE FOODS and GROCERIES 1291 Rugby Rd. Fall and he is expecting all pros- player is on his Imees, or p:ros· pective candidates to attend the or- trate, witll the ball in his IJOS· GUERRA PHARMACY gan1zation meeting the first Tues- session or control, should the day night after classes resume . . • ball be blown dead, as IE a although the Schenectady Garnets held ball? ... should the th:ree- DRUGS, PRESCRIPTIONS, SUNDRmS failed In their attempt to win the second limitation in the bee- WE SERVE SANDWICHES AND LIGHT LUNCHES Troy Gold Mectat ba.sketball tour- throw lane be removed? •.• g>O UNION COLLEGE STATIONERY 2<1c Keen competition is now going o~ for the infield and outfield posi- tions which will not be patrolled by veterans this year. Charles Brockner, outstanding contender for the first base post has been called home, enabling Bob Sha:V and Don Buchanan, his closest ri- vals, to show off their wares bet- ter. Frank Myers is certain of sec- ond base duty and David Miller has been shifted to third base from the shortstop berth because of a bad ankle, with some competition from Bob Garnett. As a result, the short- .stop station will probably be cov- ered by Fred Patrie, if .eligib~e schola.stically, Lou Carr bemg hrs rival. The:re is a five-way battle for the outer garden posts waging among Fred Xingsbury, James Smith, Guy Mollic:one, Diamond Marotta, and Gord~n Semeiad. nament, team members ran away to it and best of luck ..• G t S 'th 600 Union St. cor. Barrett Phone 2-941.9 with top honors . · · ran mi Coach Merton L. Zubres e»f the ·~~~~~~~~~~~~~;;~;;~~~~~~~;;;~~~~~;;;~~~ Captain Billy Thomas ha.s been assigned to left field and Bob Feld- man to center field. This leaves the right field spot a tossup between Claude Wiley and Phil Duchscherer, who may be moved to the infield, should the need arise. Bob Hanson, Chet Robinson and Al Mould are the standouts on the pitching line, while Hy Enzer 3;nd Norman Diedrich are also domg some hurling work. David Yunich and Harry Palmer do an the receiv- ing. Thirteen of the former squad of 24 candidates are drilling daily on AlexaiJder Field. There will be no practi.:e during vacation for these freshrnan baseball players. Go1fmen Rest During Recess Varsit.y Golf-No official practice during the vacation period has been scheduled by Coach-Captain Doug Geer. However, it is expected that candidates of the golf squad will work out on home courses dur· ing th.e <:oming week. FolU' additional prospects have increased the team total to 16, one of the largest golf outfits in recent years •. Charles Witham and John Gilm~lll\ seniors, John Schultz, '39, and Leo Minkin, '40, are the new- Varsity Ten Battles Frosh Varsity Lacrosse-Spring lacrosse practice will continue tllr.ough Sat- urday afternoon of this week from comer-s. 3 o'clock until 5 o•clock on !;he Graduate Council Field. Practice will be resumed next week on We?- Tennis Dl'ills Slated Soon nesday afternoon when Coach W~l- Varnlty Tennis--'J'he first prac- liam Harkness will sclledule dnll tice for the college tennis team will work twice daily until the end of get un<lerwa:r Immediately after the week. the Recess on the outd:CJor courts, Daily scrimmages betv;een the weath.er permitting, or in Alumni varsity and freshmen Vl'ill be con- Gym, ln. caee of inclement weather. tinued today and tomorrow after- Fr~m all indications the net- noon during which time particular men, co.ached by William Aydelotte, emphasis will be placed on funda- will bave a very strong team this mentals and the setting up of· year -with only one lettel'lnan miss- plays. ing. \:rhe number one combination Those competing fe>r p()sit1ons on of Ca.ptain Fritz Hawley and Mar- the varsity squad include Guy Bar- vin Dwore v;ill return to action, ton veteran Doug :Blue, AI Bor- along- with Herman Kessler, Am- dez{, Art Breymaier, Merlin Brock- sterdam City champion, and Robert myer, veteran Henry Clay, veteran Carr who are eligible for the nu~ Jack Coleman, Merlin Fay, Eugene ber t-wo positions. Others expected Fink Frank Freihofer-, :Sob Fur- to tr;y out are Ben Rathbun, Tom man,' Arby Halpern, S~veryn Has- Ralst-<Jn, George Miller, Philip Shan- hrouck, Mason Hutch1ns, veteran .ley a:nd Ted Robinson. Sumner Irish, veteran .Arthur La.w- ·~~;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ renee, William Lynn. Stanley May- r ersohn, Charles Passe, veteran Captain Joseph Paul, veteran Ken- , neth Reinhardt, Leonard Schultz, Robert Slatterly, Myron Stillman, veteran Howard Thompson, Thom- as Waterhouse, Donald Wells and Jack Wright. Track Men Here Next Week Varsity Traclc-The vMJation pe- l'iod for the varsity track men will be cut short since Coach Wilf~rd Ketz has slated workouts tw1ce daily beginning with Wednesday. The track men will follow this schedule until the end CJf the week. THE ELITE TAILOR 516 Union St. TUXEDOS FOR RENT l:XPERT TAILORING was named outstanding center and fencina squad wishes to state t:hat Herb Watson and Lou Carr as all\ he wa:: very much pleased with the tournament guards. · · work of the team ... the hard Here's a task for each of you work by the men and the en- over the vacation ..• for those thusiasm shown all year made it a lhing in Schenectady or prac- pleasure to work with them . . • tieing during tile rooess, we we're sure they enjoyed your in- might suggest you visit Paul terest, too, Mert . . . Santoro who will be rceuperat- We wish you all a vei'Y Jlleas· ing at his homp at 1334 State ant vacation . . • in case yo11 St. . . . Paul was in a serious plan to take a trip, reme1nber, accident, in case you have not \the men who have trav~led heard, his eyesight, it was most widely are those who have feared, to lw ser.ionsly lmpair11d really seen what lies close about . . . however, with an the cam- them at home'' ••• pus pulling for him, Paul is corning along nicely ..• for the rest of the week he will remain in EUis Hospital • . . yow· pres- ence will be greatly appreciated, we're sure . • . and for those of you who will be out of town, Ty Dennett will cherish a line at the Princeton, N. J., Hospi- tal • . , 'I'y has had an attack of rheumatic fever which bas been plaguing him since youth PI HE GROVE DAIRY, Inc. 118 S. FERRY ST. SCHENECTADY, N. Y • 633 State Sf~ Thru to Nott Terrace ~. :_ ~~i13.·-~ .. d-.e __ ·.-r.~ ... · ..•. _··_·.·.·_··· .•.. ~_.-.-- .··.··.·:_ ·-~·,··.··· ... ·.··.· .. -.··:, .. · •... · ( ... · .. · . . .... ·.· · ... ~ .. f . . -.' - : . ' . . .... - . · .. ·_ . ·•· ·· .·_ · · Cleaner·~ !~ .. •. . .· Be Dy,~rs PHONE 6·3456 Schenectady Engraving Co. 147 JAY ST. ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORDIENSIS CLOVERLAND CREAMERY FOR PROMPT SERVICE Phone 6-8104 919 State St. QUA·LITY ASSURED JI!RSEY Easter Greetings-what better expresses your Easter Greeting than your own selec: .. tion of Fanny Farmer Candies? Their fresh.· ness rivals the spring time-their variety is in keeping with nature's generous mood. 1~T~ CANDIES 465 STATf: STREET :I I' '•

Page Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, 1\LARCH 29, 1938 Physicists Visit Campus Tomorrow· American Physical Society To Hold Semi-Annual Meeting Here Friday, April 1 -- Approximately 200 p!Jy,ickb f1 um all l'\-' \., uf New Ymk State. outsidP of New Ym·k City, will tal1e part in the ~enli·annual meeting uf lht: ~ew Ym·k State Section of the Amer1can Physical Society which will take !>lace on thl' 'College rampu,; here tomonow. 'f'he subjects of the five sch_ed- ulcd papets during the mm·mng and afternoon. sessio-n,; deal wtth television. biological effects O·f Cathnde r·ay;o;, recent <irvPiopments m glass manllfadlll e. ae1 unauttc:s and electron optics. Fat· the delegates arriving today there has been a·nangeu a ,;peclal inspection trip through the Gen· <'t,al Electt ie Company and a col- loquium in the GenHal Electric RP- seatch La but atury at wh1ch Dr. C. G. Suit,; will op<'ak on \high ptl's- sur·e arcs.\ DinnPr Tomorrow Night '['he meetinl'\ will be conclude<! wllh a dinner tomorrow night at wtrich Dr. Willi.~ R. Whitney. vic~·­ president of thP General Electnc Company in charge of research, _Dr. Lyman Bt·igg.,, director of the !J· S. Bureau of Standards anu pre~ HI en t of the Ameriran Physical Society, Dr. F. K. Richtmeyer. dean of the )<taduate school at Cornell and. pte,;;- ident of the Ame1ican A,;;ocmtton of Physics Teachet \· Dr .. R. C. Gibbs, president of the Opttcal So- ciety of America. and Dr. _Edward Ellery, professor of rhenu~tty at Union an-d national ,;C'crE>tary of the Society of Sigma Xi. will speak. This will be thE' ,;econd meeting of the group which was organized as the \Phy~ics Associat-ion of Upper New York State\ last fall by a committee headC'd by Dr. Peter I Woltl. Dr. Wold is nlso chairman of the Committee on Organization and A·Irangem(lnt:-; whieh ha:-; .H<'l\\'Pd in place or officers both to arrange the meeting tomot row and to effect Resoeiation with the Amet·il'an Phy- \'teal Societv. DL \Void will pre- ~ide at all ~the ~e::sion~ until rrg- ular officers are cleC'ted. Haskins to RPad Papel' During the rnornin~ :-;f'~~inn Dt E. H B. Bartelink of thP CenPtal Eleetrit' Company's g('lll't al C'ngi- nePrinc- lahoratnr~:. \\•ill lP:Jd a p:i- per on \TPlevL;;ion Trnn~nli...::-;inn.\ The Genf'l'al Ele;'tl ie Company i.< rww comph-~ting an PXpel\imPntal televbion btoadractin.~ station Dr Carvl P. Ha.\'ltin~. 1 \\\arrh PI ofeF- sor · of bio·phy><ks Ht llninn will rf·ad a papPr on ''hiolngical pffpcf ~ of cathode 1 ay i nadia tion~.\ Pre,;idPnt Dixon Ryan Fox is :scheduled to g-ive a short wP!rom- ing addre:-;s tn th<• physid~t,; at the n1orning ~e~.sion. Fo11o\vin~ thP husinP~ . .:: nlPPting NOTARY P·UB LIC ~==~========~~~~ We went on the ttail of Prexy, answeted the Valhalla ju.sti\e:e ol that is, the o1igin of the word u.se~ ·the peace two days lat.et·, \Yes sev- when refen ing to any college pre,.;I- enty miles per hour and ten dol- dent. Firot we searched Mendten's Iars, pl('lase.\ ... A freshman t berne \American Language,\ the \N\ew on the blaclrboatd read, \If ·Ft:ed.dy Oxford Dictionary,\ the \Dicti-on-ary Wyabt's smiles, good cheer. etc., of Slang and Unconventional Eng-: wete han.sfened into d'?llars :an~ lish.\ W•tth \'\ helpful libranan. un cents he wuuld be a nulhon~·n·e. we we-nt, scanning etymological ... A member of the party of Kaps t 'll finally \Funlt & Wag- and Sig Phis that went U·P to_ Ben- :;ources ' · d d in a ha~ loft nalJ.,;' tultl. us tlwt \ptexy'' wa:o nmgton wao stran · e · . from the Latin word \praeses.\; where the party had take~ pl~ce This we could have guessed· but a .... Noble :VlcCa_rtney_, sm·~r~oe ~vlll~ Hamilton student in 1862 fitot used: ner of a vvrestlmg t;v.e·h:t~dU,~h.i~e the word as follow~: \Prex Backus· the comfot ta.ble, wel- tg e II' . was a joxlal prex. the toughest, Towet· at the Pnd of NoH • et- kindest (.)f hi> sex.\ ra;; ... f our notes so fat this But that is hbtory. What ~tlr. w;e~s~a~e been harmless, blLt the Prex does i:s news: For the fit~t fol'lowing hit of information should time Dr. Fox '\\'v••<l bt•l'·r to hts shock: Liquor, ~muggled across the family and guests for Mr Ylel- Canadian burder is being su]d' by ehillr, who\' daughtet g:'e~ to .sL students to .student,; at Union• .. · Andrew.; . . An Adnuntstratlon. The athletic department is anxl- must: The Psi U. house or any ous to ptr.mote inti amural s-ports. rampu\ nt!dition must hP P ey- yel a. soft ball and. bat could n_ot frontrd ... The audience for the be obl:linc>d ... A w1 Her fo 1 tl\._<' St. \'itll't•nt·l'nion dl'bate \\~ ldt Concordv has been offered a post- waiting at t·he Van C'utler. The con- tion <lll 'a newspaper chain. cJo:;dy test wa\ elsewhere . . . allied to Hearst .. Members <>f the Social Studie:o Gatheled before us now in the dt•pattnwnt hav!' forme~ a .pool, uffice are M:alone, PelletiCI·, .Hart- dt·opped student names m a hat, mann, and ,; 1 ana concocting the and drawn slips. The man havmg · frightful i<ssue you see bef~t·e you. thC' name of the social ,.;tudy st~- The April Fool germ has ~nfected dent to win the firtlt scholarshiP· us. We .,ugge:o;t Henry Setdcr as wins the pool ... Archibald Rut- manager of Hale House ... •B;mge« ledge, famous Union gradu':te .. and Johnson as baseball coach Kap, wtote fot· March 26th s Sat- Freddy Bronner a.; cheet· 1 cader unlav EvPninl'\ Post.\ ... H. Laurence Achilles as a Fotd Th.e librat::,• <'lWmined fom· hun- salesman . _ . BuC'k Manheim as ur!'d book..-; ordered by the faculty. college Iawnrnowet ... Joe Ro\tundo finding that only one half had £it·- as college barber ... Fredd:y Wratt culated bv D<'cember. Note: Only not as proctor of South Colleg-e. half the ·books had been bought. Milt Enzer as Heidi ... E:gi>ert Mr Helmer Wf'bb would ha VP no Hac on as <lining hall chef .. - -Ber- book\ on mserve .. Speaking of tie VVainger as campus cop . ·. fire:;, Shepa.J\<l and McEnetne~: ,.;ome Tom Gould as director of rnustc. time ago we t'e paid for fighttng. A • Hl''s got the beat. I .•. Jimmy ~E'arch in th<> HPid!'t bergs TuP~<lay Green a:; Spinster Lecturer . . . lat't for a fen e~t flre seen from Julius Bunt!xus as arnbassad 01 to :'\mth Colle~e proved ftuitless . · · Skidmore •.. Vacation, ahoy, and don't spare \Nn. nffirP r. not ;.;ev<>nty.\ said a l:niDn man to 8 motoJ cycle cop u~ the• B1onx Rtver Parltway. \Yes the hor·><es. D.L. The Cider Mill eollt'giatf> BromiuPs''' \;o..;ow. take the young in,ttuctor t hev con ,;ider for pt omot ion; Thev dod not rat.!' hi:' tearhing :,kill. ~rhola~tical devotion. Hut :1\ f>llP. and at one only. :oec- t inn of hi~ r <'t'ord do they look: T>1e P\lt whll'h 1uns a.• follow> . 'l1i<l hr f'\'<'1 wt itP a boolt\''\ • \A tlllstee b du.,ty And eronomit'al. Fusty And r.nu:;ty And 1 atlll't Pomical.\ * * ------------------- \'01'\\ nni:--:v fPI1ovv v..·ith a. t:tlf'nt fot_' dUjJJidty assbt:lnt to thr Pt P~i<lcnt fo1 npw,:pape1· publiPity.\ * at noon. thl\l'P will •b<' prf'sPntf'd threp nwre papPI': \Rt•ct>nt [lpyp). opmPnt\ in Gla\\ :\lanufarturP.\ hy !.\' H P. Gnl!P of th<' C'01ninl! ClAss \Nor·k~: \Phwic-c in Ae1·nnaulirHl SrienPe.\ hv Dr. Paul E HPmkP of RensF<elaf'r. Polyt,•rhnic In:;titut.•: and \E!I'ctrnn Optic:',\ b;· Ilr. H. P Jnhnsnn of the f';pn£>ral Elf'('trir Company RP8Nll rh La but a tory. \Th'lt Hale Hnllo<' i.- rotiPn n mot- tPr nf ron1n1nn knn\\ lf'flgP i~. But t'Oil!\idet how murh wor~e things ar\ in various other rol- Jpgpo.:!' agree-' with C D Cohmn that the futur<> of the 1Pgitim3tf' drama. rests on the sh-~uldet g of the s:ma..ll art anu eo liege theatres .. See Apr_irs Forum . A superfictal sranntng convinces tha.t Dr. Danton's book on C\hina wculd be a best seller- W<'re it not fot the ab.\ence col to- mantic and sin'ister hooPy. The ap- peamnce iti certainly timely . • . The refu~·al of fearful waiters to admit ans·wering \hp Concordy in- ve,:tigators brought a threat of a fifty grand law suit against this stHlwart publication ... Ralpoh Co- hen now wPighs 215 lbs .. a large ,;hare being brain~. the t·Pst cor- poration ... The new MountelJanks governing board is veddy veddy high ~ociety . . The dEfeat of Jes.\P Sherman in 135 pound wres- tling final'\' ]..,ads one grapplin.g col- lumnist to think he'd better stick tn wr-iting, not wtithing. Born ln C: ermany: a grocet-'s ap- prentice at 14. shipwteck.ed. and cast a..-.ho 1 e em his first vPnt ut·e abroad; a Russian import agent; a millionahe dealer in ind.igo: an American citizen; a master of ,oighteen languages, who chOose to wdte to his wife in claSBical Greek; and thf' e:xravator, who, with a ~e­ lig-ioue belief in the reality of the Tmy of the Homeric ~oerns, btought to light not one. bllt :>ix supe!\imposed towns on the T'ro]an site. This was \Schliemann' 'as de- scdbed by Emil Ludwig. Exhibit of Dl'monstrations There will also b£' an !'Xhibit of <kmonottations whir h phy,;ic-ist s have developed. The New York State Section of the American Physical Socif'ty L~ thp fourth \sectional group\ with- in thf> national body. Thf' others HIP the :V!Ptropolitan Section 'New York and immediate vicinity>. The primary purpo\'e of the new OJ~anization is to bting together at ~emi~annual mePt ings tho~p in upper ;\few York Rtate who ate in- tPI\ested in physics. This includes college and high ~chou] tea<?hers of phyRics, and phy.,ieisl:s in the 'ndustrles. Dt C. \V. Hewlett of the GPneral Electric Research Laboratory was chailman in charge of the program fur tomorrow's meeting. Anang:e- ments for thf' entertainment of the phy\icist. and for th£> dinner to- morluw night wet c made by a com- mittee comJ>o.-c,! of Dl'. F. J. Stude1 of union, chairman. Dr. E. \V. Tha.!C'h~r of l'nion, and Dr. L. R. Koller of the Genetal Elect! ic Re- .oearrh Laboratory. ---- o- ---· NOTICES On Fritl.ay •·vening ~lr. :\1. M. Boring, director of technical per- sonnel of the Genet al Electt ic Cu .. will int<'rview cl<'ctrical <'n.:ineet:; at thP Kappa Sigma huuse at € o'clock. On April 12 Dr. Guy Suit~. of thf' t·esearch laboratory of the Gen- eral Electric Co. will lead a elis- e ussion for seniors in ter·ested in resear·ch at 6:15 p. m. at the Phi Gamllla Delta house. 0 Want t.,. Travel? * \' I define a hi nrnide as nn worked sayin~ which ha~ oo out its founrla tion of truth turn into appl<'>'a uce • Trial Balance n'\'eT~ wotn as to I am very sorry that th<' n~~es­ sit\' of stating the case agamst th~ commons as strongly a~ pos..,i- hle in or·der tn arouse> investiga- tio~ of my <'laims has resulted in an unpleasant situation far from ben<'ficial for the college But I do not regret anything. I have no cause to. If I have CJ iticized de- structively it was because several years of constructive suggestions by myself and other students have had very little effect. If. to. str£>ngt hen my ('ase. I made one or two statern<'nl< which, though my own honest opinions. were not con- George Sarton in \History of Scienee and the New Hurnamism\ points out that two important events happened in 1686, the publi- cation of Newton·~ \Principia\ and the \Constitution of the Leag:uc of Augsburg.\ The former corn~letely changed our conception of' the world, but was hardly noticed iin the attention given to the latter, and the tvvo events are still seen in t11eir true perspective. firmed by a majority of other stu- Perhaps the most farnow Russian dents. I plead in absolution a blunt of history with the exception of axiom of all r·eformets.: \You have :Peter the Greal and Len.in, was to ra·i~f' a stink before you ca.n get Alexander Suvorof, nemesis of rPsults.\ In just one instance have Turk and Pole, and leader of the 1 been unfair unconsciously: I Russian army which stormed over h:~ve hlamf'd Mr. Cea.~e alone '''here the Alps upon the early revQ]U- higher-ups !~ave been equally te- tionary armiEs of France. W. Lyon sponsible. If in the future :Mr • Blease in \Suvorof\ pictures this Ct>ase will manage Hale House not quixotic s<Jldier, as a mix:ture of as a ptivate business but as a th~ buffon. patriot, genim and tru\t hrld for the benefit of the butchl'r. ,tu<ient>< I ~hall graduate <or· bust 1 out • ('f·JtHent.. • • .. Cultural Gosr.ip 'While t hr Mountebanks actors anr!· tPrhnirians did a splendid job in romh'ltting <lifficultie\. onre ag!lin this yc•at they bit off more t hnn t hP\' P<>U]d C'hPW judging by :Wnnda1· · night';; perfnrmancp of f'riminal Code 'f'hf' ab!ln·donment Critical comment varies a.s t-o the merits of the sixth volume of J.ules Romain's huge novel, \Men of Ge>od W:ill,\ but if you have followeod the work to this point, you will prob- ably enjoy the \Depths anct the Heights.\ It will bt ing you ft.nally to Sarajevo and t:he outbrea..lt of the War·. Men of Union College. desirous nf la8t \'ear'\ simplirit~· for tltls of tt•aveling abroad during the war'' ComrJexity hal' prnclt]{~Pd fmthcoming SummPr months, have play,., prnbnhly mnrP fun to net in, recently been prt>sen·t~d with an hut Jess PntP·ltaining to \'iC'w unusual opportunity to fulfill their- Amazon would hHvP licked Both- wishes. Mrs. Jeanne C. Palmer, well .•. Cops in the play wore representing the Keller Travel authnetic Junior G. Men bndges Club, offers a freP. trlp to Em·ope .... Clayton Hamilton, one o,f the The American MPrcury for A]>rll dedicates its feature artii'IP. \So- viet Russia's Wars of Co-nq1.1est\ to \Comrade Litvinov, peace loving diplomAt\ William Henry Channber- lain insists that Russia's reputed lily-white rec-ord is as blood .spat- tered as that of some of her noisier neighbors in the European coelt~it. <Continued on Page 6) most Honorary of Union's fellows, .r.a.s. Hea'lthy Animal The Seider:· Murder Case <By S. S- Van Dining) 'MOTJON I Last Tuesday's overset a..nd .to- day's limited space have coJnspired The scene ·Is Hale House. It ~~! lo prevent us from saying- more i.n the dead. of night and all ls: about the ·present show at 'Proctor's q~iet except for . the presenc~ of; :fha.n that you shouldn't miss it. The two bats flying htther and ihtthe·l vaudeville is very, ve1y good-both humming tl'>.e \Dipsy Doodle\ b:y, Roone:ys and Timbergs a•re excel\ Larry Clinton. The door opens and :Jent. The pictm e, The Fit•si Hun- Henry M. Se-ider· enters. He. glances ·d.:red Y,ea1·s, is also quite a musmg fUJ·tively abe>ut and slea_Is lnt<> the ... \lv:atch for the fowl (sic!) play Dining Hall He seats htmsel~ at a ·.in the .telephone scene near the he- table. At i-ntervals of ~wo ~mutes. ,g-innin.g. he beats the table wtth hls lef,f 'B'rom here on you'll read about shoe and calls in a loud votce;, ltla.d· /\:bout Music; that is, f'OU will \Gat con\ ·~uddenly a shot rings if you can flgure .out just how to out. Seider replaces his shoe and: ·d{) it. slumps ove1 .the table. Mr. Cease .Sounds like a good idea c 1 awl's out of' the fireplace and does a.doles-cence of a movie actress. a Highland Fling on the corpse of A.:ge,\ and will deal with lh e ear~y Seider. He lioes not notice ~ cihad- dler win be ·caHed \That -certam owy green :figure approachmg on not-too-scrupulously-honest Mr. Fid- toller skates. It :is Dr. Mavor who• Her next, if we can believe the hH.s retu1 nee>. .to get his hat. He no· that o rdet·. tice:; Mt. Cea~e and· taps him on the Moran. and' Ma1cia Mae Jones, in .shoulder. Mt-. Cease shtinks agait;st Marshall, Helen Parrish. .Jackie the wall and cries, \l gotta 1 'atse Deanll.a, At thur Treacher, E-Iet belt the prices. Son.\ Dr. Mavor snarls :Jaughs; .lots of fun. .Good cast: and skate• out the door. Ml'. var-ica.t·e. Lots of unsophi::<ticated Zabuesnic c...-awls out of the large -shoulcf lie, and we do mean prec .silver cup .. 1:-Ie sea:t.s himself at a· •t<> pTove that all nice youmg girls table. He takes off his beret whic·h: moral· items Insofar as it cieems contains three soda cracl~:ers and ,piC!tUrE is one of those sl~·ly .im· an American flag. He caU.s fot a h.elp rather than a hindrance. The bowl of he~na rinse. After a due functi<ming in high gear, ·that's a interval, this is brought by the · to p Jot. But with her personality ghost of Dink Romeyn, who ap·. music is completely subordinated pears through the courtesy of. the :Js confmnted with a story .in which Empire Players. The ghost stlcks first time in her career, Miss D. his longue CJUt at the portrait of t ion of the last-named film. For the Gene·ral Sch:uyler and crawls into And that brings us to- a cortsidera- the henna ·l\inse. Mad About Music ... wow' There is a ·loud knock on the Men and a Gil'l ... better! Result: Underwood Typewr-iters E. A. 'gRADLEY, Mgr. 151 Barrett St. Phone 4-571S; ror H ouso Linen Service .PHONE 4-3166 AMERICAN COAT, APRON & LAUNDRY COMPANY . 1'030 'BarreH St. . STYLES .for STUDENTS or $5.00 to $12.00 FACUL T'r' a pair Serving Old 'Union for 45 years Family Siloe Stol'&-->245 State St. PATTON & HALl, I nc:or-porated uoor·. Mr. :C:abuesnic answers and' 'Sn1art Gh·ls ... good! Result: 100 admits Mr. Webb who is wearing assigned to her. Result: Three Dt. Mavm's ha.t. \The President .project some of it into lh.e roles has asked IILe to take charge of the sonaJi.ty and teaching he1 how to case since l'm a Junior G-man.\ r.noney unearthing her >eal per- He sweeps a..slde his cloak revealing they do? So they spent firne and ...... ~fi)£2fi:~~[i~~:*:F~ ~l·~~~:.~~\:~~~~H~7?i1 !,l,l,'iv''\:;Y\\'\;h;;g\\\1 one fell swoop. \Yowie!\ he says, she came to them from MOM she \I am Tarzan,'' He fells Mr. Zabues- monEy practically no object. When m ::: nic with the boat hook. Mr. Zabues- into a. Deanna Durbin special. with m R v m nic remove~; his left shoe and COl' they take a ueep breath and dip ~~~ or _l our m Japes. Mr. Webb passes the salt pin money. Then, every so often, Dr. Danton now emerges f10m the lated to keep the stockhol dets in kitchen in a ted stliped shirt carry- program pictures 'that an~ calcu- ing a pah -of sheep shears. He -expen-ded on the task of making says, \Let 1r1e in on this, I can get gtoup. most of whose efforts ate the inside dcpe.\ Fitz now lets him No crack) is the new Universal have it with the boat hook. Mr of the film companies (No. Mac! ·Webb calls Nr. Fitz aside and whis- you'll soon see that the eannieBt pers, \The1·-e·s dirty work afoot.\ Follow the dollar sign~ and Dr. Danton arise-\ and dt inks the 1 - henna rinse. He faces Mr. Fitz. \Now look at my muscle.\ At this point he belchPs gently and oul pops the ghost of Di!'ck Romey.n brandishing a copy of Dr. Danton s latest book 1 price $3.00>. Danton autogt a phs -:the fly leaf and dodges quickly to av~·id Freddy Wyatt who has just jumped in on a pogo stick. He asks, \Is there a sub· freshman ir._ the house? We wei'C one short In the count.\ He look; accusingly 3l Mr. Cease who is clipping bond coupons with Dan- ton's sheep- shears. There b a scteeching of brakes. EveJ\y om c·ushes to th-E window in time to see Dr. Fox ge~ out of Herb's motor· Pleasant Valley Meat Market • Home of Sunshine Meat Products Car MOTOR REPAIRING LUBRICATION CAR WASHING U. S. TIRES & TUBES EXI DE BATTERIES BRAKE SERVICE GASCLINE cycle. \Have you seen anything <Jf • mD f B EKMAN'\ t h~ glwt of Dirck Romeyn, gC'll· !~~ Q UW 111 E · jjj tlemen 9 Meanwhile Mr. Webb has been ; 586-592 BROADWAt.Y m m ~niffing m·<Jund the corpse <~f m601 UNION ST. cor Barrettlil Rf'ider. The rorpse gets up, goes Phone 4-3181-2-3-4 ::: ::: out and retums drinking a glass ol i::~,·',1 ·.i.l'.i water. It reJapses on the floor. Mr. ~ee~~~~~l~~- t~e h~~oeu~ ~~~~~~,hi~~ J,~;;;;;;~~~~~~~~~;;~;;~~[~f;.~:;;~;;~;;~;;~;;~;;;~;;~;;~;;;~;;;~;;~;;;~;;;~;;~;;~;;~;;;~;;~;;~:;~;;,~·;;~:;~;;~;;~;;;~;:~;;~;:~;;~;;; pauses sig~ilicantly. \Moths.\ He jumps out of the window followed closely by ~[r. Fitz, Fred Wyatt and Dr. Mavm's. hat. The rest of the company disperses except Mr. CensP who g-ets R t::Rrving knife and starts to prepare SeidE>! for the ne:xt day's Irish s-tew. \' .. . Note: The characters in this skit are purely imaginary and are not to be confused with actual living professors 01 human beings. -------()·----- TD New York STUDENT'S an d FA C U L T 'Y wishing to avail themselves of the special discount on return trip to New York by railroad. may pur- chase special ten day round trip tickelq at a saving of 33% at the College Ne\\Vs Bureau. The train will leave Schenectady Saturday at 2:32, arriving in New York a.t 5:50. Price, $4.80 xeturn. 4tlt An:nunl Sll1nmet• Session MOHA WE< DRAMA FESTIVAL •: and INSTITUT:E' of the THEATRE Founded lifl~& by ~It·. and M1·s. C<>hurn rl>ltd lllxon Ryan Fox ; : ('IIARI.l<:S II. COBURN, Dlreetvr ~~ El~ltt Wt'fk,.., July 5 ·Aug, 27, 1998 l'l'aetl!'al l'rofes•lonal TIJl'at.r• Tralnln~:: Institute ~tudents worl! and perf>Pl'ln with Mr. Coburn, gtltl!\t ~tm-~ and a distinguished 'UJ•pnrt ing- company In the Fes- th·al's sev-en great plays undo· a.n m1usuat eoordinated p1nn-- ~>·eel<ly program includes 18 hours !-lemiuar .w od-t and 30 hours prac~ tirnl experience. Sponsm••d by Union Collegt' c !l~H'I'IF[CATJ.:::S GRANTED Salcnlfd l\'odtlons fo-r Superior o.ru.dnates ('omJ>IPte Tttmon for 8 Weeks: $120 I<'estival's Oddo'Or Theatre, on {'nion'H beautiful campus. is only an hour froll11 Saratoga Spa, L•ke Gem,ge, Berkshire Music a.nd Ben- nington Dano<JG Festivals. For Admisslo.n or Information Write Bu.rsar, Ins:tltute of the Theatre Unlcn Colle~o. Solteuectady, .N.Y • SPRUCE UP FOR THE HOLIDAYS ACME BARBER 509 UNION ST. NEAREST THE CAM PUS GAZETTE PRESS Printing Compliments BRANDHORST PHARMACY •:on file Corn.er•• UNION ST. and GILLES PIE L. H Brandhorst L. E. Brandhorst \ c Z.51! Vol. I So1 Sch Nat One I leg·e1 Th Englil E, Uniot year i Progra· Council will b; hundre< countiJ an noun He • will b; next 'fhursd is nee< Garis. The tests fo The Tues~ The Wedne! The~ day, AI All Sl mores Garis, tests. : make 1 that th· engage! the tes them ments. rangem the tes those s Sop he slon of sion oJ uled tc Bailey sophom and Er quested room i Lab ora· UnioJ At P With m·ary I Lehmai bany, a ington peare's tire \ April : Union Dr.Dix the auc ''Julh by this tre for will be mannet Ilghtin~ pany d Rand thew~ noted f peare e ment < Univer1 pearing been \ P!ayerf Of S] ers anc trict is Monda; will be teacher Arvie of the· the ho the aw DeL Lect1 Pi err and int cia! le< Foreig~ April ! Ch!lpel De I self as France ward tiona! Henry He I publica \Eurot Revue,

0 r ::mm::~~~ m Ill !:! !I! m m m 111 !I! m s iii Ill !~i IIi Ill ::: ::: ::::::::::::: rst Chemists Will Hold Col.loqu ium Z.51! I r-. , T .. .. ..._.,.... \..,-.,---~·- 1 jl• ' Gl·ee Club Will Begin New Concert Series Vol. LXl., N\o. 47 W~OO~OO~SCH=E=N=E=C=T=:A~~~~=:=~=.~Y~.,=F=R=I=D-A=Y~,=~~R=Th~:~l-~=1=9=~=.~~~~~~~~~~~-P~R=l~~=~WC_E_N_m ======~~======~========~=== Sophomores Arel Scheduled to Take Nation. .. wide Tests One Hundred' American Col- · leg·es to Give These Exants Next Week Th1·ee Basic Subjects English, CaltUl'e, Current. Events Covered; First Test Tuesday Union College 1vill pa.1 ticipate this year in the Sophomore Testing Program prepared by the American Council on Education and. which will be given by more than one. hundred colleg€S throughout the country, Dean Chat'les F. F. Gal'is -------_!:_~:.:_~~::::::_:~:::__:_ _______ ~~~~~:::..._. announced Wednesday. · He said tha.t three basic tests: will be given to all sophomores next Tuesday-, Wednesday and 'fhursday. No advance preparation. is necessary, however, said Dean; Dennett Leaves Campus; Cheney And Pound Expected Next Week Garis. --- The times assigned for these Three honorary fellows will have winner and former pr\esident of Wil- tests follow: visited the campus within ten days Iiams College, arrived on the cam- 'l'he Cooperative English Test. with the arrival of Arthur Pound pus last Monday and addressed a Tuesday, April 1~, 10:20 'to 12:10. one week fiOm today, Dr. Tyler group of students from Professor The Contemporary Affairs Test, Dennett having completed his visit Douglas Campbell's class in Inter- Wednesday, A~rU 2(), 8 to 9:50. Wednesday and Sheldon Cheney national Relations and Professor The Gene!\al Ctdture Test, Thurs- ·scheduled to arrive on the campus Vernon O'Rourke's class on CUI- day, April 21, l:SO to 5. . Monday. rent Problems that afternoon. All students registered as sopho- Mr. Cheney, an authority ln the Monday evening, Dr. Dennett met mores -in the college, said Dean fine arts, will make his debut as an with the faculty from Divisions I Garis, are required to take the hon<>rary fellow on the campus and II in the faculty lounge in Hale tests. He wal'ned sophomores t<>: Monday when he begins his two-day House, and a discussion was held make arrangements in advance s<> visit. Mr. Cheney is the possessor of on educational problems. that they should be free from other-· a long list of successes in his au- Previous to his speech in Daily engagements a.t the times set fol\ thorship of books on the theatre and Assembly, the honorary fellow in the tests. The college will excuse the fine arts. Government spoke to Professor them .from any college appoint-· \The New Movement in the Thea- O'Roul'ke's sections in Social Stu- ments. He emphasized that no ar- tre\ his first book, was written in dies 12 on the American Civil Serv- rangement can be made for taking: 1914. The book established his rep- ice and touched briefly upon the the tests at any times other than utation, and in 1918 \'J:he Open Air administrative departments of the those scheduled. Theatre\ was published. In 1921 Federal Government. Sophomores registered in Divi- \Modern Art and the Theatre\ was In Daily Assembly, -he spoke on sion of Litel'ature and in the Divi- printed and other books on the \The Cost of Collective Security,\ sion of Social Studies are sched-. theatre followed. Since 1929 he has and pointed out that our democratic uled to take the examinations in; specialized in the fine ~rts, and form of government was not prac- Bailey Hall, Ro()m 300. All ethel' since that time he has wr1tten fom tical as an agent for enforcing sophomores, those in the Science. books on various forms of artistic world peace, since only a dictator and Engineering divisions, are re- expression. could muster together a sufficient quested to report to the lecture Mr. Cheney has been connected force to protect the mutual safety room in the Buttenfl.eld Chemistry with the college before having lee- of other nations. Laboratory fm· their examinations_ tured to the students registered in Friday, April 22, will find Dr. ----,o the Mohawk Drama Festival In- Arthur Pound, an honorary ,Jellow · t f th Th t f two sum· in Social Studies, on the campus. Unl ·on Cn.lle~r<> to Be Feted StltU e 0 e ea re or - \' ~>\ mers. On Monday the authority on Dr. Pound is editor of the Atlantic At P1·esentation of Play: the fine arts will hold conferences Monthly and a free-lance writer on and discussions with students and social affaiis for many outsta:nd- faculty. Tuesday he will address the ing publication in this country. This With a distin.gu.ished list of Hon-, student body in daily assembly and is Dr. Pound's second visit to the m·ary Patrons headed by Governol' will speak to some of the English campus in the capacity of honorary Lehman, the Capitol Theatre, AI- classes. fellow. He will conclude his cam- bany, announces the famous Wash- Dr. Tyler Dennett, Pulitzer Prize pus busines,; on Saturday, April 23. ington SCJ.uare Players in Shakes- _:.:..:_:::.::.:=.-=~-_: ______________________ _ Freshman, Varsity Teams Debate Today, Tomm·t·ow .Trwio»· Prom Tickets Will Co On Sale Today TickPts a1 e now on sa~e fol' the annual Junior Prom at which LaiTY· Clinton win play Fr·iday, Ma.y 13, in· t!-,e Alumni Gymnasium, it has been announced by Albeit :Boz den, Junior Prom Committf'e ch-ai1 mat). The tickets may be s~cmed f.rore members of the Prcm C01nmittee: · Bo!den, Jacob Amazon, William Thomas, Benjamin Rathbun, John 1chultz, Raymond Lewis, David Miller, and David Yunich, or f10m M''\· Briggs in Hale HousE>, Miss Law in the Student Activities ·Of· fke, Anthony Barbie1i in the Stu- dent Barber Shop, or from. Mrs. Jenkins in the Book Store, Tickets will be $5 until A.pril 24, :md then the price will rise. Tick- ets will not be sold at individual fraternity houses as in th~ pa.st, since each member of the c:ommit- tee has been assigned to canvass certain houses. Larry Clinton signed the contract to play here during the vacation pe1 iod. The contract with 7rahan and Company of Cohoes, p!•ofes- sional decorators, has also been signed, Committee Chairm.an AI Bol'den announced last night. The programs- and the pat:ron list are now being made up. The patron list will be announced in tb.e near future. ---0•--- Council Supp~rts Student Federation Also Formulates Ne\v S)\stem For Choosing College Cheer Leaders Tuesday, April 12--The Student Council tonight voted to send sev- eral delegates to a district confer- ence of the National Student Fed- eration at Vassar College ()oll May 6 and 7, according to an announce· ment by Vice-Chairman Frederick B. Hawley, '38. Delegates, probably three i:n num- ber, will be appointed la.ier by :President Winterton U. Day. '38. John S. Wold, '38, in making a report on the possibilities of im- proving the cheerleading sttuation at Union, made several recommen- dations for changes on the bMi.s of suggestions given by Athletic Di- rector J. Harold Wittner. Under the proposed system, which was unanimously accepted, cheer- leaders would be placed under the supervision of the Student Council. Two seniors will act as head-cheer- leaders afte1· trying out in cc:~m:peti­ tion in underclasses. Ernest Allnutt, '40, Elected Editor of Senior ·year book Walte1·, '39, Appointed Editor of '42 Record; Eisner, •,t 0, New Managing Editor of Garnet; Ten Added to Idol Staff Wedne:;day, April 13.-l\leding thh; afternoon the College Publicatioll:; Boa1'd elected Emest C. Allnutt, Jr., '40, of Baltimore, l'vld., editor of the new .senior Garnet and Robert C. Walter, Jr., of Detroit, 1\lich., editor of the 1942 Freshman Record. Robert Eisner of Poughkeepsie was chosen man- 'aging edi tul' uf the Gamet while ten other men were named to serve on the Idol staff. ------ -<$> Granville Hicks To Speak Tuesday Communist Editor to Addt·ess College Body on \Why I Like America\ Gran ville Hicks, author, !e(lturer, and an editor of \The New Masses,\ since 1934, a weekly magazine with Communistic sympathies, will speak in the Old Chapel, Tuesday, at 8 p. m. under the auspices of the In- ternational Relations Club. His sub- ject will be \Why I Like America,\ which is the title of his book to be published next month, Mr. Hicks was re-appointed this week to the fa<mlty of Harvard where he will act as counselor to students in American history. He is the first \self-confessed\ Commu- nist ever to be appointed to the teaching staff of Harvard Univer- sity. Until three years ago Hicks was affiliated with Rensselaer Poly- technic Institute as a member of the English staff. He was dis- charged because of \retrenchment despite the support of many of the student body who rallied to his de- fense. The revolutionary figure and fa- mous \red John Reed, was the subject of Hicks' book \John Reed: the Making of a Revolutionary.\ In addition, be is the author of \The Great Tradition,\ a study of Amer- ican Liteurature since the Civil War; and besides editing \The New Masses,\ Hicks has contributed to \Science and Society,\ \The Na- tion,\ and \The New Republic,\ besides numerous other magazines. The latter two magazines are con- siderer to be liberal but with leftist policies. Hicks was graduated fl'om Harvard summa cum laude and in 1936 was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship. Allnutt will be the first editor to se1ve under the new system of the juniors editing a yerubook for sen- iors, instead of the Juniors editing their <>wn annual as in the past. In additi<>n to the Garnet elec- tion, ten men from the three low~ er classes were elected to serve on the undergraduate board of the Idol, quarterly publication. It was decided to have the board act as a whole with no distinction between the junior, sopohmore, and fresh- man members. Idol Staff Elections From the juniol' class Benjamin Rathbun of Elmira, Jack. Malone and James C. Wade, both of Sche- nectady, were chosen. Rathb1m has been active in the intramural ath- letic program and for a time was· a cheer leader. He is a member of the Alpha Delta Phi fraternity and writes college sports for the Union- Star. Both Malone and Wade are columnists for The Concordiensis. The sophomores elected were: David Light of New York City, Al- bert Mould, and Robert Simmons, of Albany. Light is a columnist for The Concordiensis and is a member of the Mountebanks. Mould is a m.ember of the varsity baseball pitching staff and played fresh- man basketball. Sirnm()ns is a mem- ber of the Glee Club. Freslunen Idol Men From the freshman class Edward Case, Albert Callan, John Lewis, and Harry House were elected. Case is from East Aurora, and a member of the Union College Photographic S<Jciety. Callan, o:f Chatham, is a member of the Mountebanks and was a member of tbe freshman foot- ball squ:;~.d. Lewts comes from Hud- son Falls, is a member of The Con- cordiensis staff and the freshman track team. House, of Plattsburg, is a member of the Mountebanks. Students Wrangle Over Constitution peare's \Julius Caesar,\ for an en- tire week cC>mmencing Monday. April 18. Tuesday night will be Union College night in honor of Dl\. Dixon Ryan Fox:, who will greet the audience between the acts. ''Julius Caesar\ has been selected For nearly two hours, the nine- The Union College freshman and varsity debating teams will be ac- tive today and tomorrow, Jespec- tively, with the fl\eshman debating Colgate University this afternoon at 2 o'clock. The varsity team will meet Williams College in a radio debate tomonow aftet·noon over WOY from 5:30 to 6 o'clock. About four juniors and four sophomores will also compl:\ise the staff. Calls for candidates for the cheerleading squad will be rnade in daily russembly and by pro);ler no- tice in other places. In case of poor Six Seniors A warded response from the student body, the Council is to appoint caa.didates. Fellowships, Grants either .from its own body or the gen- Allnutt attended the McDonagh School in McDonagh, Md., is a mem- ber of Psi Upsilon, and served EtB business manager of his school . yearbook. Eisner is a member of Kappa Nu and a member of the b:usiness staff of The Concordlensi.s. b'\ this pota:ble group of the thea- teen students who assembled in the ' · h' w· ht d Old Chapel Wednesday nigh~ to tl'e for its color and 1g 1 g an . , re-discuss the proposed functiOnal will be present<ld in the traditional t manner with costumes and special representative constitution cen er- ed theil' arguments mainly about lighting effects and a large com- the question of opened and closed pany direct :frO'm New York. Randolph Somerville, Director o.f nominati<>ns. the Washington Square Players, is Nominations tG the atudent coun- . hak cil will be made under the new noted for his productions of S es- constitution by student council offi- peare and has founded the Depart- cers· but the objection raised by ment of Dranatics at New York St.an'ley Luke, '39, precipitated ar- University. The cast of actors ap- d d P earing in \Julius Caesar\ have guments against him an cause a t S stalemate once again. been with the Washing on quare· H. Laurence Achilles, Jr., '38, Players for r:na.ny years. h t th osed con Of special interest to the teach- pointed out t a e prop - ers and students of the Capital Dis- stitution is not a perfect one but is a compromise and an effort to trict is the announcement that on avoid \terrible\ student deals as Monday, April 18, the opening night was cited by William Hawkes, '38, will be designated in honor of the and Robert Ferguson, '38. Luke re- teachers of the Capital District. Dr. mained adamant, however, i~lst­ Arvie Eldred, Executive Secretary ing that his amendment proVlding of the Teache1·.s Association, will be. for a student petition be II'lcol'- the honor gue.st and will address porated into the new constitution. the audience. Vllmar K. Bose, '38, replied that De Lanux 'To Give Special Lecture Here Wednesday Pierre de Lanux, Fren·ch author and inte1·nationalist, will give a spe- cial lecture ott ''Row to Read the Foreign News.\ Wednesday night, April 2(), at ~ o'clock in the Old. Chapel. De Lanux ·has distinguished him- self as an author by writing \Young France and New AmeFica,\ \To• ward the Awakening of Lnterna.~ tiona! Ethics,\ and the \Ltfe o:f Henry TV.\ He has contFibuted articles for publication to the \Revue de Paris,\' ·\Europe Nouvelle,\ \Europaische Revue,\ and others. the constitution would >Stand as drawn up and Luke's amendment will not be appended. . Frederic A. Wyatt, actmg as \peacemaker presided . over the meeting instead of Pres1dent Day. The student body will vote on the new con$titution soon at daily as- sembly, it was learned. ---0>--- Alumnus; Picture On Stalnp With the revision In the printing .of postage stamps, Chester ·A. Ar- thui· 21.~t President of the United Sta.t~s and graduate of Union Col- lege, will have his pict~re on the twenty-one cent stamp, 1t was an- nounced recently by Postmaster James A. Farley. John Lewis and Willard Malkan will uphold the negative side of the question: Resolved, that New York State adopt a unicameral system of legislation, in the freshman con- test this afternoon. · In the radio debate tomorrow aft- ernoon the Union team, composed of Robert Denzler; '38, a11d Robert Furman, '40, will take the negative side of the topic: Resolved, that Congress should be empowered t? fix the minimum wages and maxJ- rp.um hours for industry. ---o·~·--- Amherst !Roundtable Today Five studernts, led by Professor Harold A. Larrabee, are visiting Amherst this weekend to partici- pate in the fourth annual Round Table in Philosophy which is be- ing conducted' between the two col- leges. The general subject of the meeting will be \The Philosophy of Woodbridge and Contemporary American Realism\ with four pa- pers being presented, two from each college. Herbert o, Fox, '39, and Joseph McNeil, '38, will reaQ. the Union papers. The first session will follow dtn- ner this evening; while the second meeting will be held tomorrow morning. '!.~hose attending from Union are Cba1·les B. Honikel, '38, Henr.y· D. Hartmann, '38; Bernard. Krause, '39, McNeil, and Fox. eral student group. Because there has been ·little in- centive for cheer leaders in the past, varsity sweaters with special insignia will be given to tl:le men elected as head of the squa~l. Ttey will also receive life passes to all athletic contests, The squad will be uniformly dressed, with sweaters loaned by the athletic department. Free cleaning of uniforms will also be prGvided. The Council is to act in a super· visory capacity, but the head cheer- leaders are t<> have direct c1>ntrol. ---01--- Easter Music Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh will offer a varied and popular organ. recital program Easter Sunday in the Me- morial Chapel. Easter music will be featured. The complete pwgram follows: \Sonata Eroica\ by Joseph Jongen; \Christus Resurrexit\ by Oreste Rava:rtello; \Spring Song\ by M:en- delssohn-Bartholdy; \Easter Pre- lude\ by Edgerton; \0 FiHi . et Flliae\ by Loret; \Easter on Mt. Roudidoux\ by Harvey Ga.ut; \Chor- ale-Prelude\ by J<>hanne~ Brahms;· and \Toccata From FHt:h Sym· phony\ by Charles Marie Widor. The first half of the progr~m will be broadcast ovet· WGY; tll.e whole concert goes over short wave sta- tion W2XAF and W2XAI>. As in preceeding years, a large <!apacity crowd is expected, being drawn by favot·able c o m m e n t of former Easte1· programs. Six seniors have been awarded graduate scholarships or fellow- ships to various graduate schools in the country, it was announced today by Dean Charles F, F. Garis. Alfred Seigle received a full tui- tion to study Public Administra- tion at Michigan University. M. Woodrow Wilson, recently elected to Sigma Xi, has received a teaching fellowship from the Uni- versity of Wisconsin. William J. Jacober, also a Sigma Xi, received a teaching fellowship from Brown Unive1 sity, Both will devote their scholastic activities to Chemistry. Melvin I. Muroff, Phi Beta Kappa, and Harold B. Ackerman, received graduate scholarships to Columbia University. Muroff was awarded a $200 scholarship and Ackerman re- ceived one for his entire tuition. Both will pursue studies in Busi- ness Administration. Paul Goldberg, also a member of Phi Beta Kappa, will pursure post- graduate studies in Economics at Clarlt University. He will recel:ve $100 besides his tuition, 01---- Weiler at Conferenee Walter\ is also a member of Psi Ups·i!on and is the present mana- g-ing editor of The Concord!ensis. His activities have included Glee Club, Mountebanlus, and Freshman Jacl'osse. Dr. R. H. Potter, '95, Speaks Easte1· Sanday The sermon at the observance of Easter Sunday at the Union College Memorial Chapel services 'Will be preached by Dl'. Rockwell Harmon Patte!\ dean of the Hartford Theo- logical Seminary since 1928, and a. graduate of Union College with the class of 1895. Dr. Potter's sermon will be broad- cast by Station WGY, starting at 11:15 o'clock, Services start at 11 o'clock and the public is invited to attend. After his graduation from Union College, Dr. Potter studied at the Yale Divinity School and the Union Theologic~J;! Seminary, and in 181)8 he received the bachelor o.f divin- . ity degree from the Chicago Theo- logi{)al .Seminary, Dr. Potter was ordained to the 'ministry In 1898. He was pastor of • t:he Reformed Dutch Church of Dr. Theodore C. Weiler, ins true- ·Flushing until 190() and f•om there tor in Social Shtdles, plans to at- be went to the First Church of tend the meeting of the Eastem Christ, at Hartford, Conn. So(}ioligical Society to be held at.· From 1923 to 1925 be was mod- Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, Sat- · eratoz- of the National Council of m:day and ·Sunday, April 16 and 17. Congregational Church, and since This society is a Regional Assoc!a- 1925 has been president of the tion of Sociologists f1:om colleges American Board of Commissioners in New England, New Yorlt, New for Foreign MissiC>ns. He Is also a Jersey, and eastern Pennsylvania.' trustee of the Mt. Holyoke College.

Page Two birttsis :FotJNDIJD rs77 \11 Ca11sa Ptrsa Parol~ 11 ssai\ 1937 Member 1938 ~sodded CoUee;iate Press Diatribu ta: .X COHeeiate DieeSt REPRESENiED FOR NA.TIONA.L ADVERTISING BY NationaiMvertisingService, Inc. College Pr .. bllslms Repnsentativ• 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK. N. Y. CHICAGO ~ BOSfOii • LOS ANGELES .. SAN: FRANCISCO T'hP offit•Jal w~w~p:.tp~E:·r of the students of Unio'l t'olll·ge, Pu~Ii~lH:tl Ttll':.:.day anrl FriduyB throngll- nut the college :-.~ar. ex~ t'Jil during· Chri~ttna:-; atHl Spring t~et·e~;se~. I'uulka-tiun Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., SeiH~ue.-tady, \'· Y .. 'relephone 4·41'11 Eutered \t·l tit•• ~<.:ltc-Hectady Post Office \\ HL·{·ond L!la~~ :\lull ~lut ter SulJ~eriptiuu lRit·~: Five <·eut::; a copy; $3.00 a year: deliv~::rud an~·whtrt! in th~ U11iteU Statt~::3. l·~diturial I tooms. 8 illunan Hall, Uniou College CamJ•ll!-\, Td~IJilorte, Sl'lt~llt>L'tad[!_ 4-01:13 Se11ior Eoard Fn;dedck W. Hequembuurg ..... Editol·in-Chief l'~i Upsil\<m Huus~:-4-B7IU Robt•rt C. Walter, J.r· ........... Managing Editor l'si UrJ::.iJ·uu Huuse--4-8710 Robert A. Saaf .................... News Editor 1133 l'a!lti.\Uod Ulnl.--+GI~~ H. Wyman Hitchcock .............. Copy Editor l>telta U psilo!l Iluuse-4-7V~2 Jerome Smith ..................... Sports Editor 1\i.LIJlJ:.t. ~u Hou~e--·l-7331' John H. Gilmour ............. Business Manager Ddta Up::siluu llou~t!-4-7il22 .Marvin .M. Miller ... A.'lsociate Business Manager Eapp:t :\:u llouse--·1-7331· Alan C. Wra na ............. Circulation Manager Eappa =\u Iluu\e--4-7331 Junio1· Boa1·d C. Hus~t:li llt-•y0 George L. P~:>l'k Cllttstupl1~r l\1. J:t~ahy Larry Pellettl~l\ Soph~more Board l'aul Beek<er, '.Jl, Edwin A Filz, Jr., '40, Donal<! llaJgh, '·11, Johu Le\\is, '41, ht'lill~th .\laeKt>IIZil:', '-11, John Philip~, '·tl, ~Ior·t1 rm~r Hohitt~. '4.1, Huhe.rt. S(·huJ- bt-t,t;.;, '·fl, La~kar ~eh\\artz. '41, Jallleti E. 'f\\llllll~, '41. Business Staff ~lax Len. '3!•, Hobert Ebner, '40, Wallet· Fallou. '4u. Stanley Ut!'rtz, '40, John B11111inger. '41, lJavitl !•'airfield, ·~1. \Villi.:tm Huulpl•rles, '41, JamPs ITII- ma.u, '.J.l. THE CONCORDIENSIS, :FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 1938 tional program is not all it could and shoU'ld . be. Healthy Animal Ten Musicians Rebel THIS AND THAT: It would Hy I!J.;\!UlElt1' o. FOX Drs. Learned and Wood stated in tlleir!,have been possible to hold a Union. At almost reguia 1 , intervals some zally by the light of th~ Times important musicians and ·commen- report that if these failings are to be over-: Squa:re Wrigley sign any nrght la:st tators will break loose with .ba.rbed come, \the American college eurricuJum ~reek .. H.ft~~r~n ~~~~~~~b~i~~?~= investive a~ainst the discour-tesy t b l \b · ]' d t \t .:iei·g·t•ad t·ate : 0 ~~ •• '.\ • Also the Onyx Club · · · fc~~ g:on~~·:;t~gg~~;,a~~e ~fs t~o~tm~~: mus e I' e1 a Ize · o pernn Ulltt · l s! Ask Mulvey whe 1 e he met :Don Ford . . · · · Het\b Fox . cent column Lawrence Grlmarr, to develop their individual abi'lities instead.!· and the Burke :w~~~~ · ~e.ssion With·: critic of the New Y\ork He1ald T·riEJ. · l:rad a pleasan- . . . une took up :the sword in defence· of trying to force them into a rigid mould.:: Lawrence GiTlm;n, musi~ ~ltlc -~~ of Arthur Bodanzlty, conductor of . ' the Herald n une an ean the German wing of the Metro-poli· designed for the theoretlcaJ averag·e StU-1' Amel'\ican er•itics · · ,; Hubbell Rob- tan Opera Company who wallted '' inson producer of We, The Pea- . ! dent.\ 1 :pie\ ~nd author of \Women of the out on an audience m Boston t~o !. Ensemble\ lhis third Esquire arti- weeks ago because of blatant dt~· Such an ideal can be reached on'ly by re-· de> is a UNION man ... Also an comtesy on the p.at·t of the auclr-. · · · : AI h Delt . . . Harold McGee, e~ce. . VLsmg our present out-moded educatiOnal: u ~ a <·F dd Bronner's class> Th!-l occasiOn was a performance· . . nwn re Y d.i~ of Dte Walkuere. The first act was system to meet the reqUirements of Otlt'j' also a Df·.t~·· ~as bee~! e~ected Ed. coming to a close, the curtain hacd•. , . : xector o e . ayers . u · · · descended but the orchestra hEt.d·. more progressive educators. The averag~e: Canoll and Burges Jo~ns_on fr~ yet to finish one of the most beau· . . : members of t-he same exc ustve c ~ tiful of postludes. The audience un· college only requH·es Its unde1·g·raduates to:,- ... So is Prexy · · · Also Charl:e wittingly broke into a torrent of ap . . . . : Co burn . , . Fe1 dy Helm, last years 1 • · Pass te sts 111 Isolated f1elds before dechl.rl no·· . bl h\.Jd · . ow concentrat- P au~e as the CUI· tam was drawrr, o!, :pro em c I • rs ~ . Jeavmg the orchestra and Ml' l . \b] f d t\ H . ing on the publtshmg freld. John- Bodanzky to shift for themselve~ them e 1g1 e or gra · ua 1011. · owever, some· .:on one of the most frequently . . occurred in New Ymlt rna.ny times but it was not until' thjs perfo1m~ ance that the conducto!\ wa.s goaded into doing something about it. Mr. Bodanzky threw down his baton in the rn:iddle of a phrase and walked to his dressing r oom, •cursing, In the words of M:r, Gilman, \Why Mr. Bodanzky has been so patient and long suffering with the thought- less amohg the audiences at -the Metropblitan -in New Y <>rk ••. is a question I am •U11able .to answer ... Perhaps he is about to reform. Perhaps, on the occasioll. of some ex- a! ted performance o\f Di-e Walkuere . . , he wil'l eithel' do what he did in Boston, -or will talte his place ·on the podium and- tell the New York Boetians wha~ he thinks of them. I believe it would help. Cer- tainly the press would sustain him.\ In the past there 'have been a ·few courageous a;rtists who have given their listeners ·a tnuc.h needed lesson in manners. Sto:ko\'ski· has been known on severa:l oceasions to -roundly reprimand' the Philadelphia audience for clapping bet\'een the movements of a .sy:mphDny. Dr, Koussevitzky lectured -an audience (Oontinued on Pa.ge 4} Colle Q·e.s today dema·J1d tl1a·t st'tdents pa·ss·,·.· I\ibbed by Helm, is bending every audten<!e-Iess_ thlough the rest of - ' .effort to open the door for the fair the act. This same rudeness has comprehensive tests in broad fields. Undet\ headed Ferdy · · · •ri==========================::=:;; MORE OF THIS AND THAT: this system the student must really know, D. U.'s Biil Wardwell swears a his \stuff\ before he is declared educated-' .. sign kicked him back after he swung at it . . . The REAL REA- Certainly we would not classify a person: SON for Chuck Passe's poor show- ing in the Rutgers Intercollegiates with a one-track mind as being educated; wa..s that he missed the third turn. Until then he was holding his own' yet the average co1lege senior is only well! against Harvard's Charlie Hutter· I • . • Joe Stiefvater (Theta Delt) has versed in one small field and actually in the: a sister who is Phi Bete at Smith San 1 e Class ,,. 1 ·th the expOllent of the one-,',· . , . Skidmme's endow!Dent does not. \ quite reach a millio:n . . . Union's track mind. is $4,500,000.00 (coin of the realm) . . , Caddy Hislop will study for It will be interesting to watch the reaction. his doctor's degree at either Har- . vard or Yale next year ... Heard of the colleges to this constructiv.e attack_ ·behind our back: \IF THE ·HEALTHY ANIMAL GOES DEAF Will they rise to the occasion and actually 'TOMORROW- NO MoRE coL- · UM-N .\ . , . Skidmore students initiate the much needed reforms advocated favor sermons on moral standards, I C • F d t\ th 'a survey shows . . . we never by t 1e arneg1e oun a 1011 or pass · €m • doubted it a minute ... The Balti- ff b ' · I t d · t\ 1 ?' :more Sun referred to a Skidmore o as emg 1rre evan an mconsequen Ia • :lad ... must have been thinking Only time will tell! But in any event they. of Saturday nights ... A certain Skidmore lass -insisted on a corsage can no Iunger conscientiously fe€1 tllat they; of roses for the Interfraternity :Ball. Was she surprised when it are doing as good a juh of education the. took the form of a Ia1ge flower box \leadet·s of tomorrow\ as they should. Containing \FOUR ROSES!\ <in a bottle l. Prom Previews: Larry Clinton {Continued on Page 4) CAPITOL THEATRE · ALRA.NY WEEK OF APRIL 18th MAT. WED. aucl SAT. Washington .Square Player.s PRFSENT ., JULIUS CAESAR•• New York Ca•t and Produdlcm - Direction Randolph Somerville PRICES I E.VE.: Orchesba $1, 10 ~ .83 Mezzanine $1.10 Balco:ny .55 INC. TAX MAT.: Tickets .77 , Students .40 SEATS NOW s~:::'E II ... ~,:~~~_;N ro_;bc MAIL ORCERS Union College Night .. Tues •• .Apr. 19 Dr~~ Fox Will Address Audience lHsue Editm· .....•.....•.. Georo-e L. P.eck Foreign Soil .II Assistants \ Btilliant R. P. I. engineer-economi.ots last week: LarTy Sch wmtz Mortimer Rol>ins hit the front pages of erudite journal:;;, The Albany !b============;;;;;;!.l The Cider Mill Edwin Fitz Times Union and Ii.nickerbocker News with the Baby Talk rather precocious system for showing native mer-' 1'remble ye fit>ld! Friday, April 15, 1938 I<' AI LURE It is time that our American colleges sit up and cl'iticallr analyze themselves, if the report of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching il:::lt:JUed dul'ing the past week can l>e a.ccepted at its face value. After u comprehensive study of 55,000 high chants how hidden taxes work. Titled or titling • Oh, shake, ye earth! themselve~ Tax Centennials, a group of student,. Life has Rev('.aled · A baby's birth! leaden; at the Troy Institute cornet·ed all the pennies they could find and then went on a buying ram- :In New York City's famous Bronx page using one-fourth, one-fifth Ol' whatever the Moral-ity is rife. prop~rtion might be, of pennies on each purchase. And t~·e you'll find no hookey- Merchants were overburdened with the coppers, Andt~~er~ you'll find no Life. while R. P. I. tried to rope in Stlltt> Collegt>, Union, \\\illiam!-< H.ussell Sage, c;n the plan. \Villiams ]';ow, the Bos.s in the Bronx is MI. politely refused, coyly admitting: \we're much too' Foley, \\i\ 1 ho's exceedingly <\ha~t and ex- conservative for that sort of thing.\ A \Tax Float\ ceedingly holy, is now being built. probably for Troy Festival. And upholds a strictly virtuous Harvard's undergraduate managerial staff queried tone, Columbia's athletic department on the average · In other folks' lives, and maybe his <-~•~ 1 own. school and college students conducted ovei' a length of a coach'~> term, The S])Cc ......... r undertoo ~ to answer that question by pointing (}Ut that short- .And Mr. Foley bas had an injunc- ten year period in the state of Pennsylvania, the cu-authon; of the report, Drs. WilliamS. e~t tenure i,; held by Lou Little, -head coach of foot-' lion ball since 1930. Although position of football coach· 'Taken on pix of a woman's func- tion; is the least per·manent of athletic posts, it is almost .'Mr. Foley believe:; it',; his mission Learned and Ben D. Wood, summed up startling to note that Columbia has held Basketball 'l'o banish pictures of parturition! their inve::;tigatwn in the foliuv·;ing words, \today higher education dues not educate.\ If culleg·es m·e nut educating the hundred of Coach Pa.ul Mooney since 1925. Baseball Coach And)\ Mr. Foley Speli.ldng Coaldey since 1914, Track Coach Carl Merner since ' When I was young 1916, Swimming Coach Ed Kennedy since 1910, My parents taught me Wre,tling Coach Gus Petel::;on since 1927, Rowing To hold my tongue. Coach Richard Glendon since 1927, and Fencing The stork had brought me: thousands of students that are graduated And a child's first duty, I'm tPlling coach James Murray srnce 1898. Good coaches equal.. you, Ciarence, raeh rear, what plausilJ]c CXCllSl' Can the~· good rr-r·ords, although at f'<>lurnbla th.e la!tf\>r i\ nb . Io fur e\'er· an<.l a.lwuyo to l>elic~e vioudy not the mo,;t important thing in the world. hi,; parent~! offer J\or their continued existence'? 1 Just between us and the water Debating at such institutions as Vermont, Hobart The most striking of the findings was the fact that prospeetiv.e teachers attained lower avemges in college than their classmates preparing for other vocatio11s and in many cases knew less than the high school stu- dents they were preparing to teach. As there is no good reason fo1· believing that these conditions are confined to Pennsyl- vania alone, our modern educational system certainly has fallen. short of its objectives. Fol' if om futm·e t€achers are not prepared to teach, then we surely cannot hope to ])}'operly educate tlle students. In one college tll.e entire S(}phomore class was given a comprehensive test covering broad fields of general knowledge. Two years later the surveyors returned and gave the same test. Fifteen per cent showed lower scores than before, indicating that theil' knowledge had actually decreased in two years of colleg·e education. Here again we rnust come to the conclusion that our educa- spigot, and Oolgatt· is run on big business basis, with an- I\m just an electioneering bigot.) nual spr·ing season for national missionary-debating . tour. Streamlined Vermont Cyniic as well as Ho-. bart Herald and Colgate M:aroon give plenty of space to an activity which is probably the most beneficial . to the individual students participating therein. Life is vicious, Life's malicious To reveal The facts of life. I'm officious, Union's 145-year-old Philomathean Debating Soci- ety made its Jonge.st trip this year to U1riversity of Delaware. Compare with 3,000 mile trip of one of ' I'm ambitious, I'll conceal The acts of Life. above-mentioned: 12 intercollegiate debates, 8 states, So, if you have children, this is the 5 hours of radio broadcasting and 12 days of forensic ·lex: activity-without academic restrictions. ,They must not see the truth about sex- IN THE MAlL To the Editor: The student hearing Wednesday evening on the proposed constitution for the Student Body did not seem to have any particular results. The charge was made again and again that the secret nomination scheme of the new plan is undemocratic. The an- swer given by members of the Council was that secret nominations and surprise eledions would pre- venL \deals\ despite the fact that history of the pres\ e11t Coun!lil has proved this not to be the case. I fail to se.e anything reprehensible about a group of students combining to elect one of their number to the Student Council. It is far less open to cen- sure than inside manipulation by Student Council members without the knowledge of the Student Body, If we are to change student government at · Union, let us make a change that will give us a democratic, r·ep1 esentatlve system. R. A. Young '40 If they feel so curious, let them commence Learning the facts through experi- ence! THoly, Holy, Mr. Foley, En<:~ck those pictures f()l\ a goalie! Tltey're obscene, \!Vb.at I mean. ; Showing ladles roly-poly!) .Life is lascivious Let's be oblivious 'To the manner in which we were all created-- Let's, with hypocrisy, Flout our democracy, Ahd have both Life and life cremated'! Tremble ye field! Oh, shake, ye eartb! Life has revealed A baby's birth! H.·M. S. ·C~lNC Tlteta : ChJ Plti S!! :Kla.ppa Lambdl Chi AJJ Kappa Sigma l{a;Jlpa Nn Neutral Beta 1 Pi WE Alpha Dillta Alpha Pill Delta Upsll<>n South Colleg-e Phi De •rhetll Chi Psi Delta Phi CON Phi Sil Delta Sigma Chi Kappa Alpha Sigma Pill Pill G Delt11 Ro~ Ou Alth ·is rna Colleg ingnes next l ing Tt vision man. nounc drill l in the year. Fit~ includ out, n alignn will b nero! Thir two n cons is two o Pra week from tilling p1 inci days' funda free. The llusinl Hay l tit:\Ul~l f)wvet Ouibet Max Weint Norri~ Bob I Dirk 1 Marot mons, Sumn< Krull, nordo .Jaek Ciesin !lick All be pi: will 1 way field, ed to Sp1 Pai tin I panel mate: 10 pa total. must WedJ plete convo Mo AI ph Phi. Tu Phi Delt1

times goaded it. Mr. in walked patient t- at the ... is answer reform. omeex- alkuere he did place New of Cer- n him.\ been a o have needed has to delphia the Dr. .55 19 THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APR.l'L. 'L5, 1938 Page Three Important Sports Meeting:! · Theta DHta Clli SO:FTBALL SCH,E'DULE NATIONAL LEAGUE Phi- Si!rmll- lfappa Lambda Chi .A<lpha l{at•pa Sig'lllU. ll~la Th~ta. SPORTS-MYTH A meeting of Major and !Minor Sports lettermen, excluding man- agers, will take place in the T~:ophy Room of the Gymnasium, tc:>mot•- row afternoon at 1:15 o'clock, Pro- . feasor J. :Harold Wittner ha.s an- nounced. ·CHN t:OitDY Theta Delta Chj. Plti :S!gma J{)appa Lambda Chi AJ~hn. J{appa Sigma U-6 12 :45 4-18 12·: 45 5-20 7 :30 4-20 12 :4G FIHIJI 5-1g 12:H> ·1-2!1 13 :H\ 5-~3 7 ;:J{} 5-2 i2 :15 Neutral• 6-2 7::!11 5-10 12:4[) 5-4 1 2 :Hi 5-18 12:4:i Pi 4-25 12 :45 5·3 12:45 4-27 12:45 Time and tid~ wait ·for no man . . . dwillg ,tJ:ae :Recess nu· merous In te-re·s t·ing events transpired , •• 1ve pass them on to you ••• 5-18 4-29 5-23 5-2 5-9 12:45 Despite the one-sided scores, the college freshman lacrosse outfit came through wit!~ notable per- formances on theh ::;outhern swing ... Poly Prep in Bklyn triumphed, 14 to 1, Sewanaka ·HS won, 6 to 0, and Stlvern School in. Maryland con- quered, 18 to 1 . • . Meanwhile, several intercollegi~t.e rivals whom 12:4'5 12:45 7:30 12:45 ('(IJ.L.E!a·: Neutrals 5'2 '5-10 5-4 5-18 ·1-21 7:30 12:45 1'2:45 12:45 1~:15 5-23 12 :46 SPIIRTH _~_f_ta_T_ 1 _ 1 e_t_a_·l---1~-\~-~-5 __ 1 . __ 1_~-~~_5 _____ 1 5 _2-_~2_5 __ 1 ___ 1_£_~ 1 7 _5 __ --~~-~--,~-G--,_--_-_1_'2_- 2 _4~-- __ ,_H_I._R_I.~.Il- AMER,ICAN LEAGUE Union meets on various warpaths very soon :Played regular contests throughout the East while the WHO'S A:lplla Plti Delta .A<lplla 'IWitn Pll1 Delta. Upsilon South OoJlege Pill Delta The4t ('Ill ·Psi Del taL Phi Dutchmen rested' a hit during I-ainy weather . . . too :ba. d that numer- ·Ol!S teams get such a telling jump on the local atbletes: , .• Alplta Pill Diilta Alpha Delta Pill Delta Upsilon Sou tit College Pill Delt!L •rlteta Clli Psi Delta. I'll! HEAIIINU 4-1·8 12:46 5--19 12:45 fi.:9 12 :45 5-11 12 :•15 4-22 12:45 4-18 12:45 'i'IIE 4-25 12:45 5-11 12 :45 5-5 1~: 45 5-19 12 :45 5-3 12 :46 5-W 1'2 :45 4-25 12 :45 5-9 12 :45 6-11 12:45 r.-11 12 :·13 5-5 l~:Hi 5-2 12:45 5-19 12 :45 4-22 12:45 5-3 12:45 ---------1----- -~--~- --~-- 4-1 0 l-2~ 5·4 5-11 SOFTBALL 4-19 12 :45 4-2S 12 :45 5-·1 12:45 5-11 7:30 12:45 12:15 12:45 7:30 RACE! 5-3 7 :30 5·3 5-23 4-27 7 :30 12 :45 12 :45 \\' A'l'l' II 1-21 12:45 5-23 7:30 -6---,.-23,.---- --- 4---21 ___ ------J---5--9--- 12:15 12:Hi Tilt: 7:30 4-27 5-23 5-9 12:45 7 :3ry 7:30 COX COltDY EASTERN LEAGUE Called to ou1· ~~~ntion is a very .timely topic for serious consideration .. _ . a few years ago some $1,8()() 1.'1'!\S invested for clay fQr the f;en.nls courts .•• the old clay lms worn away, a natural process, and new top soil is needed badiy at present . , , the courts luvve eroded to the point that unl.~ss action is taken immediatEly, the entire tremendous criginal swn of $1,800 will be l~:>st . • , so lfrng as we have sa<Jl! topnotch comts, the opinicrL has been of- fered that we migll:t just as well keep them up , • , ll~Twever, the situn,tion will 'be ·clarified Inore very shortly • , • I Phi Sigma Delta Slg·ma Ka11Pa Sigma Phi Gn.mma Delta \Duke\ Nelson ha.s been having his hands full . . . <>f the 18 play- ers competing for varsity baseball berths, 15 are either pre-meds or engineers with lab~ratory work at least twice a weelt _ . , the fresh- man baseball team has but two diamond games ·slated to date, home-and-home set·ies with Green Mt. . • . five matches have been booked for the f1eshman ten, in- cluding Deerfield .Academy away on .M:ay 7, Gow Scho<>l a. t home on May 12, Wiliiam Fmsh at Union on May 21, Garden Clt:y HS away on May 28 and Manhasset HS away on May 30 ... CHNCl~E, Pili Sigma Delta Clll Alpha Phi 4-19 5-10 4-28 5-2 7:30 6-5 12:45 A U'I'H.E NI'JC,, 12 :45 7:30 12 ;{5 ---------1---------1----~-- 4-19 4-26 5-3 5-1(} 7:30 Sigma Chi 12:45 'l'HU:J.Y 12:45 7:30 5-20 I~ :45 Kappa Alpha Sigma PILi !'Ill Gnmmn Delta Psi UJ>•ilon 5-10 4-26 7:30 12 :45 4-28 5-3 12:45 7:30 5-5 12:45 5-10 7 :30 5-20 12 :45 Roster of 44 Men Out For Football Although the 1938 gridiron season ·is many months away, 44 Union CoJlege athletes signified their will- ingness to try out for the eleven next Fall at an organization meet· ing Tuesday night under the s~per­ vision of Coach Nelson W. Nrtch- man. At the same time he an- nounced his plans for a light Spring drill and the change~ to be made in the Garnet .,;tyle of play next year. _ Fito;t revision of the offense w1ll includ~ new methods of pulling out, new types of stance, and new alignment of end·s. Second, there will be two differences in the man- ner of backfield lineups. Third Coach Nitchman outlined two ne~ basic plays to be utilized, consisting of two end runs and two off-tackle plUnges. Practices will talte place twice a week on Tuesday and Thursday from 3 to 3:30 o'clock. For the en- suing month signaJ drill.;; will be the p1 incipal form of practice. On other days Coach Nitchman will work on fundamentals with players who are free. The men wt10 reportt>d are Bill Husino •L•aptain-ele«·t .Tal\~ .-\{llaZOll, Hay L~\vis. Fred Patrie. Di.ek. Ke.arnf', tj~ut.t:;c Sdic,..~..ll, lla::.ull flutdnu:-o, Lt' 11 [Jwver Bill J,yuu, Bill Hartt. Jn<'lt lluibe•·t, Albert Jillson, Fred Burn~. Max E.lsuer. Henry Hort<Jn, l\1urrt;;; \Veintraub. c. J. Szymczylt. George Norris D'ull Henderson, Bob li--arnf?tt. Bob Dicksou, AI Case, ~lei Gerntz. llirk Griffith, Bob Slatterly, Dtam'?nd Marotta, Guy Mollicone, Bob Fttzu:n- mous Payson Hatch, Albert Halavm, Sumt{er Irish Bill Thomas, John Krull Eugene 'Finlt, Larry Brocl<myer, nord~n Semerad, Sam Hammerstr~m, lark Vannler Bob Schulberg, Allam (;iesinsl<l, Ed' Kelley, Jim Bothwell, Dicit Balch and George Grego!'y. ---o---- INTRAMURALS Softball All intramural softball games will be played on Council Field. A group will be allotted five minutes' lee- way to present a full team on the field, or else a forfeit will be grant- ed to its opponents. STOIHES 4-20 12 :45 5-20 7:30 4-20 12:45 ARE 5·6 12:45 5-9 7:30 5-20 7:30 5-6 12:45 ('II :>'!'II I! IH 4-29 12:45 6-:J 7:30 4-22 12:45 !'I'M.: tAL· TIES Our \good neigb.hors\ over at Troy have pro-wd themselves Three Exhibition Sports Tilts Slated Saturday that are somewhat assured are by considerate «<issenlin.ating Captain Bill Thomas, left field, Bob agents ••• a.fte:r sponso11ng in- Feldman, centerflelder, and Claude terscllolastic cr<Oss-comttry and Wiley, in 1·ight field; Harry Palmer tracl>: meets on 'the R. 1'. I. Union's varsity lacrosse team will and David Yunich, catcher; and campus fo.r 16 ;\'ffii'S, the Tro- have its first taste of outside com- Frank Myers, second baseman. jan Athletic Dev:t. announced petition Satmday afternoon when The1e is no doubt that the power of it has abolished ·llZture sponsor- it faces a squad composed of for- the team is concentrated in the out- ships of these blterscholltstic mer intercollegiate lacrosse stars in field and behind the plate, but the sports events . . - the boys let an exhibition match on Council other post;; ate noticeably weak. it be known via a. poU that Field at 3:15 o'clock, Making up the ---o----- they matriculate a.t R. F. l, be- visiting ten will be ex-members of Notice cause ef its '\ltlgh schohtstic · d th · hb , 1 standing\ and nl)-t because of Umon an o er ne1g: ormg co - Sophomore candJ'date managers th tt d . e attraction tltese two :meets lege outfits, at present a en mg · of the varsity tennis team should h 1 Albany Law School and Albany report to Wi!iard Dean at the Delta odd _,In store • ' • .AJ.~D, .they c ad eu, \F•·om an authoritative Medical oilege. . . Upsilon House or to Professor Witt- soW'ce, it was leiU!led that The freshman stlckmen wtll play I ner in the Athletic Office. T• host to the Glens Falls High School ~;;;;;;;;;~~~~~~~;~;\';n;io;n~C~o~ll~e~g~e~i:;~.~c~o~a~t~em~p~IJI~tin~-~g players on the same field in a con- test at 1 :3U o'clock. 20-lnnlng Baseball Game Too Another feature tomorrow after- noon will be the 20-inning baseball game between the Garnet varsity and freshman nines on Alexander Field, commencing at 1:15 o'clock. Both Coaches Walter Nelson and Arthur Lawrence will have charge. ---o--- G1·ave Problems Dogging Va1·sity Nine in Dl'ills With the season opener only five days away, three fundamental ob- stacles are blocking the vat sity baseball team's way in preparing for the initial intercollegiate clash with Colgate Wednesday afternoon al Hamilton. Sadly enough, sophomores, having no pi evious varsity experience, dominate the roster of the varsity nine. The pitching problem is most acute, since four first-year men are included in the small staff of hur 1- ers, the backbone of any diamond team. Promising players trying out for several important positions are also doubtful about their scholastic eligibility, but this phase wilJ be cleared up late today with the scheduled appearance of marks. To date, the only assignments YOU.LL AGREE IrS THE BEST A Knockout Right U.n:.der You.r Chin! Arrow shirts and ties are alw-oy-s several punches ahead when it co:rnes to authentic style and fine quality. Spring Tennis and Hol\SeShoes Pairitlgs are posted on the Bulle- tin Board in the gymnasium. Op- . ponents must arrange their own matches. Each forfeit will deduct. 10 points from the respestive group· total. The first round of each fiigllt· must be completed on or hefor.e Wednesday, April 27. Please com-, plete the matches at the earliest convenience. FRO JOY For better style, buy Arrow motclled sets. Shirts $2 up Neckties $1,$1,50 Handkerchiefs 25c up NUSBAUM~S Softball Schedule Monday, April 1&--12:45 o'clock: Alpha Plli Delta vs. Alpha Delta Phi. . , Tuesday, April 19-12:45 o clock:, Phi Sigma Delta vs. Sigma Chi; Delta 1,Jpsilon vs. South College. ICE CREAM 447•451 ST.A!rZ fr;,1. taking over the tracl{ meet this spring and cilntlnuing ·it as an annual event\ • . • the local A. D. 1mows 0 about the plan • . . but it was a nice gesture, anyway, yes •.. , The primary purpose of the meet- ing is to consider what chang:es·, if any, should be made in the Dules · pertaining to the election of team captains. FLASH! ..• the ·Engineers have abolished varsity hockey from their intercoileg.iate winter sports calen- da:r • , . as a result the Athletic Dept. is in the arduous process of· t1ying to slate l·wo ice matches with a different opponent, to fill the gap , .. A pleasant sight on the campus yesterday was the figure of Earon Kurt von Forstmyer, our former fencing coach, who is vaca- tioning hereDJbouts flam Columbia STYLES for STUDENTS or $5.00 to $12.0() u .... Did you lmo-w that Will Shakespeare l[fie'v hls baseball a.s far back at·the Hlth centmy? .. , Do you know what changes were made at the Nat'l Basket- ban Coaches conclave in Chl- cago recently'l_, . Do you lmow what expe11iments With our ath- letes are going t() be canied out next Fan om the campus? , .• Next Week • , FACULTY a pair Serving Old Union for 45 years Family Shoe Store-245 State> S't. · PATTON & HALL, Incorporated SAVE ON LAUNDRY by Convenient Railway Express Ser1tice Speed ir home and back weekly by nation-wide Railway Express. Thousands of students in colleges throughout the country rely on this swift, safe, de· pendable service. Prompt pick-up and delivery, without extra charge, in all cities and principcil towns. Be thrifty and wise-send it collect-and it can come back prepaid, if you wish. Low, eco· nomical rates on laundry, baggage or parcels. For rusll service telephone. the nearest Railway Express office or arrange for regular call dates, Cor. WALL & LIBERTY STS., 'PHONE 4-5612 DEPOT OFFICE: N. Y. C. STATION, PHONE 4-8512 SCHENECTADY, N. Y. XPRESS NA.TION ·WIDE RAIL. AIR SERVICE -~------- ----- --- -·- AS SEEN IN THE MAY Esquire Shirts and Ties that harmonize ; r ~ t ~ Bring yourself up-to-date with an Arrow Broad- tone S1riped shirt, which reflects the cunent style trend toward pastel colors in fine shirt- ings; Like aU Arrow shirts, these are endowed wit:h the famous Arrow collar. Mitoga tailored to fit , •• Sanforized-shrunk. $2.75 each To complement these shirts Arrow has created Broa:dtone ties - square design or stripe. $1.50 ARROW SHIRTS and TIES

Page Four Glee Club to Start Series of Concerts To Take Trips to Buffalo, Stillwater, Ring·ston, Mt. Hennon The Union College Glee Club will ,being a ;·eries of five concerts during latter p:llt of thi\ month <-tlHI ea1ly in May when it presents ito annual Buffalo concert April 23. This first concert will be given at the Buffalo Athletic Club. Besides the concert, ·there will be a radio· b1oadcast trom Station WGR, from 5:.00 to 5:30 p. m. On April 27, thete will be a con- ceit and dance at Stillwater High School. The Garnet Goblin,; will provide the music for the dance. I THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 1938 C hemi'stt•y Clu·b WI\Jl• }[' old -~-- have one of the wei:rdle.st, roughest ' . · ': .,. .,_ ·· acts we ve seen--but they're not; CoiiO<iUium Here April :22:. M. 0 T I 0 N' . bad. Alphonse Berg isn't worrying ___ •';;;;=============;;:j Schiaparelli any. A! Tmhan is a· .. genuine riot. The !Inion College Chemistry Club will entertain representatives· That scintillating creature, Kay' :Next Week: Buster Crabbe! fwm several eastern colleges at the Francis, ·is Ctll'rently under observa- (\Hurroo;\ he cried, and down he :firstannu.a:I'colloquium for chemistry tion at Proctor's in Women Are flapped and waved hi.s wooden leg. students on the campus AprH 22-23, Like Tila.t. Eay, the ever-youthful, And the band played \God Save the it was announced today by Het bert looks and a.cts as cha-rmingly as King.'') Zuhr, '39, president of the club. if she had just been disinterred. And one never lrnows. Monday, the Union club received its charter from the American The picture ls poorly directed,, and consequently moves. at snails- Chemisti:y Sot>iety, thereby becom- pace. In fact, it's so poorly direct- ing a student affiliate ·of the so- ed that the ¥ery capable Pat' ciety. The ASC is the largest scien-; O'B · , tifir organization in the world, . . rien JS n-euly as tiring as his co-star. Ten Musicians Rebef There· are. others in the cast, r however, wb.o strive migl)tily to ~elieve the Ill~ of some of its seda- (Con.tinued from Page 2) tive qualities, 'These valiants in- clude: Mel'iZille· ·Com per, GJ ant * • • Most reviewers agree that Jeze-· bel, which begin$ a foul· day run to- ; day at the State, hasn't a very: original plot 'but is very much, ' worth RePing because of the per- ' formances of Bette Davis and Hemy Fonda. J.M. ----o---·- Ten Men on Tennis Squad in Pittsburgh recently and Sii Mitchell, Saran Edwards, and, to · Thomas Beechman hall been a Jnost' some extent, Thurston Hrull, Ten candidates fop the cur-rent regular objector, Vaudeville: Jack Lenny and the college va1sity tennis team reported THE CALENDAR Tomon'ow 10 a. rn.-Daily Assembly- Speaker, T. D. 0. Stevenson, '39, Memorial Chapel. Sunday EASTER 11 a. m,-sunday Service- Preacher, Reverend Rockwell H. Potter, Dean, Hartfm•d TheoJogica:l Seminary, Har~t\ ford, Conn., Memorial Chapel. 4 p.m.-Organ Recital-Dr. E. A. T i d m a r s h , Memorial .Chapel. Tuesday 10 a. m.-Dally Assembl;y~ Speaker, Mr. Sheldon Cheney, Honorary Fellow in Fine Arts, Memorial Chap!)!. ·DeWitt's. Lunch Room and 'rap Room We Serve· Eetter Food · for Better Health 118-120: JAY ST. Opp. New City Dall For Houso Linen Service PHONE 4-3·1·66 AMERICAN COAT. APRON. & LAUNDRY COMPANY 1030 'Barrett St. PINE GROVE DAIRY, Inc. One of the most important glee club u.ffai.J s of the whole season will ·be held April 29 ·WhE'n the chm i.ste1s pi·esent their annual con- cert at the Mohawk Gulf Club. This concert is of special interest to Unicn .students, ,;ince it mar·ks one of the few oppo1·tuni ties that the college as a whole has an oppm- t-unity to hear a glee club cm,cert. A dance will be held following the singing, for which the Garnet Gob- lin;; will provide the mu.;ic. Tickets may be secured at Stan Joseph's Clothing Store on State Street. Schenectady audiences have been. buxom Statler twins ta·p-dance very to Coach William Aydelotte at the pa1 ticula,I\ly constant in showing nicely, and :rhy~hmic::tlly, to open fi!st official pmctice session Man- their ignmance at local concerts.• the show. Phyllis Colt, a torch day afternoon. Du 1 ing the rernairi- Mr. Rouzinsky, always vety patient,'· singer, would be much bette1 if der of the week the playe 1 s en- Wat> forced to wait almost a full she'd -stick t<> her ·fOite and eHmi- gaged .in indoor pJactices at Alumni minute fo1 quiet between the fits!' nate a few of her stereotyped ges- Gym, while the outdoor courts were and second movernen ts of the ~tu:.:r~e:s:_. ~T~h~e~t::_hr:-:e:e~D~i~a~m:o~n:.'d~B=r~o~t~h~e:rs::..!._~b:=ei~n~g:..2:p~r_:ep/::a:':. 1 ~·e~d~t~o~r·~u:s~e::_. -----~~~~~===~====~~~~~=:=:=:==::==::=:=:=.=:=.=:=.=~ Brhams Second Symphony this year in spite of the fact that he was holding hi~ hands straight out in ·SCHENECTADY, N. Y. 118 S. FER,RY ST. The following day, Saturday, Apr·iJ 30, the club will travel to .\1ount He1mon, Mass., wher·e they will give a conce1 t at the Mount He1mon School. The Union singer:; will participate in the tir::;t Annual Apple Blossom Festival to be held in King,;ton May 6. The group will be singing in conjunction with ,;everal other mus- ical gl'Oups, all under the direction of Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, contam- ing ove1· 200 volces in all. The Union club will be the only group to sing \'olo numbers. Followmg this huge choml concert, ther·e will be a com- munity dance. ·---o·--- NOTICES EJ~ctrical J<::Ugineers: Material has been received fl·om the Load Dispatcher,;' Institute, 0 neon t a, N. Y. Anyone inte1 ested call foJ particulars. Insurance: \Facts About Insur- anC'e,\ publisheu by the National Committee for Life Insurance Edu- cation, should be of intere::;t to men planning careers in this field. A copy is at the Placement Office. Fit'Pstone Th•e & Rubbe1· Co. : Booklets, \Firestone · Where Op- portunity Awaits the Colleoe Man\ may be read at the Place~ent B~­ Ieau Mr. E. W. Van Wagenen, District Manager, John C. Winston Co., Pub- !t~hei-'l, will be at Silliman Hall all clay, April 19, to interview students in cunnection with summer work Any interested students should make appointments throuuh the Student Employment Bm·ea~, 633 State St. Thru to Nott Terrace back of him for quiet. A few yea1 s ago Ho1·ace Alwyn, then a young pianist. stopped his concert at the midway point 'because of rude talk- ing anc' obvious lack of interest. In Troy this year George Enesco showed his displeasure at untimely clapping. Several years ago Her- bert Witherspoon inte~rupted a c<Jn- cert to deliver a leclUie on coUt·- te:>y especially directed at some of Troy's most prominent who had been talking loudly in a box. D1·. Tldmarsh 1uts repeatedly reproved Union students for discourtesy lh.Jr- ing his weeki;}· Friday morning con- certs, Most concert-goers think that they are complimenting the artist when they clap loudly. This may be true However, if they clap at the wrong time they do not -compliment hlm but insult him most emphatic- ally. Not only that but they show their own ignorance and give the rnusiC'ian the feeling that he is per- foi·ming to a I ow of blockheads. --·--0 Healthy Animal (Continued from Page 2) definitely will play the prom . _ . Dave Yuni~h: \I wish the guys definitely will play the prom • • , Dave Yunich: \! WISH THE GUYS WOULD Q UI'J' ASKING ME IF IT'S TRUE. T:HE ONLY REASON HE WOULDN'T PLAY WOULD BEl AN AC'i' OF GOD.\ ... That should be definite enough even for Art Grant who doubts Yunich's spokE'n wor<i . . After the Chick Webb fiasro he can hardly be blamed .. , Since we have only eight inches this week, we repeat the immortal words of Kiak, the eskimo, as he arose from hi.s seat on a cake of ice: \My tale is told.\ PHONE 6-3456 GUERRA PHARMACY DRUGS, PRESCRIFTIONS, SUNDRIES \'rF. SERVE SA.'\'D\\'ICHES AND LIGHl' LUNCHES UNION COLLEGE STATIONER-Y 29c 600 l.'nion St. cor. Bar!'ett Phone 2-9419 CLOVERLAND CREAMERY FOR PROMPT SERVICE Phone 6·81 04 919 State St. Schenectady EngravinCJ Co. 147 JAY ST. ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORDJENSIS GAZETTE PRESS Printing Lu..,yright 1936, LIGGllTT & MYBRS TOBACCO Co, .. out for more pleasure Step right up and ask for Chesterfields . . . they ,ll give you more pleasure than any cigarette you ever smoked tkc PLEASURE cigarette ·--- Z.SII Vol. L 'To~ Wi1 Thu h1tenc He< Discu: ' In o tion 01 C<lnven Govern Divisio Hall\ r. T·hursd o\clock. -Dr, n<>unce- ing se g2oups these , gates 1 their i F Oswa State J the Ne Conve!1 cbairm g1·am v sion. of It if n<>t onl will st' lion a.J gates, ent. The Nation; c<>nven days f during their ]:: tiona! 1 Onl'l will de: W2XA' Father is aJso to the '\Town 11 0nl~ c.:nne t which cJ·ete s went < foolish parties matter c-elved ~eople the COl C()Yer · Acco i.,; u. !at <>n thE this pr litude s~nce eonstit tlividm: tl!e de In < \The d of pul mere tbey a DeL~ He I The Leagu~ have~ ing to Chapel autbor will gi the F< was c Paris served office In I has de ing ar world includ• Ameri of In ••Life slavia . .Ameri 192&3~ wide I Mr. ent in and I ambul appolr Cornm in chi Fales,

Room om Food Hall 66 St. N. Y. • • M l• . 9VOr Spends Week In Washington Z.1511 tS Engineers To Be Awarded Prizes Vol. LXI., No. 48 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, APRIL 19, 1938 PRICE FIVE CENTS 'Town Hall' Forum I St~dent Pra;e-; c.rou~ - Will Take Place HoldsWeeklylfleetings Dr. Fox Produces Drama Depicting Birth of Nation Borden .Dispels Rumors Regarding P·rom Favors Thursday Evening h.1tended . to Focus Attention On Constitution~! Convention Heck, '24, Is Chairman Discussion to Center About Vital Constitutional !Revisions In. order to focus public atten· tion on the coming Constitutional C<mvention, the Department of Government of the Social Studies Division is sponsoring a '\Town Hall\ meeting in the Old Chapel on T·hursday evening, April 21, at 8 o\clock. Hr. Vernon A. O'Rourke an- n<>unced that invitations are be- ing sent to 102 civic and .social poups in Schenectady. A few of these will be asked to send dele- gates to present to the gathering their ideas about the Convention. Public Inte1·est Needed Oswald D. Heck, '24, Speaker of State Assembly and a member of the New York State Constitutional Convention Committee, will act as chairman at the meeting. The pro- p·am will consist mainly of discus- sion. of the .problem. It is hoped the meeting will n~l only arouse public interest, but will stimulate constructive sugges- tion and opinions from the dele- gates, students and citizens pres- ent. The New Yoi'It Committee of the National Municipal League will c<mvene in Schenectady for two days following the \Town Hall,\ during which time they will d1aft their platform of desired constitu- ti anal reforms. On April 18 at 10:45 Dr. O'Rourke will deliver a speech over WGY and W2XAF on \The New Founding Fathers of the Empire State,\ This is aJso designed to bring attention to the Convention as well as to the '\Town Hall\ discussion. Difficulties Arise \Only the Socialist Party has c<>me out with a series of planks which are intelligible in any con- CJ'ete sense,\ said Dr. O'Rourke. He went on to say that \it would be foolish to conclude that the other parties have no interests in the matter. However, these have 1 e- coeived no public expression, so the !Teople of this state must turn to the constitutional delegates to dis- c<>ver what will be done.\ According to Dr. O'Rourke, there i» !.L lamentable state of indifference on the part of the public toward this p1 oblem. This lackadaisical at- litude has btought about the ab- :;ence of publkly ~nnounced party eonstitutional programs and of In· U.ividual expre<cisions of opinion by t lie delegates. In closing, Dr. O'Rourke said, \·Tbe delegates must be made aware of public feeling. They are not mere agents. of political. parties; tlley are our founding fathers.\ DeLanoux To Lecture Here Tomo1-row Evening The Schenectady Chapter of the League of Nations Association will have as guest speaker at its meet- ing tomorrow evening in the Old Chapel, Pierre de Lanoux, French author and internationalist, who will give a lecture on \How to Read the Fm'eign News.\ Mr. de Lanoux was on the French staff at the Paris Peace Conference and has served as director of the Paris office of the League of :Nations. In recent years Mr. de Lanoux has devoted himself entirely to writ- ing and lecturing for the cause of world peace. His published works include ''Young France· and New America,\ \Toward the Awakening of International Ethics,\ \Sud;'' ••Life of Henry IV\ and \Jugo- slavia.\ He lectured extensively In .American cities during the years 1.92&34 and in 1935 made a nation- wide lecture tour. Mr. de Lanoux was a correspond- ent in the early years of the war and later served In the French ambulance corps. In 1916 he was appointed a member Of the French Commission to the United States in charge of Haston with Czechs, Foles, Jugo-+Slavs and Rumanians. Recalling the early days of the college When most of the st1:1~elits ~ere prepaling for the n;m1st~y, mcreased religious ac- tivity 1s again becoming appar- ent at Union. · Unknown to most of the stu- dents, a prayer group has been meeting ·each Wednesday night m Hale House, and Bible classes have begun on other nights. On March 7 three students, Joseph Paul, '38, Henry Ha1 t- mann, '39, and Ernest Grant '41, spoke at the evening servic~ of the First P r e s byte r i an Church of Gloversville. The topic was \What Christianity Means to Me.\ 'Other meetings at .other churches in the vicinity are being planned. College Chemists Hosts to Conclave Invite 24 Colleges to Send Deleg·ates on April 23, 24; Langmuir to Speak The Union College Chemistry Club will act as host to represents- \ ives from several colleges and uni- versities April 23 and 24 for the first annual chemistry colloquium held by the club and an interesting program has been arranged to en- tertain the visitors. Invitations have been extended to twenty-four schools of which ten have accepted. Those invited are: Amherst, Bennington, Brown, Clarkson, Colgate, Cornell, Hart- wick, Hamilton, Holy Cross, Mass. State, Middlebury, Mount Holyoke, N. Y. S. Teachers College at Al- bany, R. P. L, Rochester, Russell Sage, Skidmore, Smith, Syracuse, Trinity, Vassar, Wesleyan, Williams and Worcester Tech. Only Socialists Interested Difficulty has aiisen since an- other chemical colloquium is being held on the same date in the Con- necticut Valley with many eastern scllools attending. 'The students will arrive on Fri- day and, before inspecting the American Locomotive Works, will register at 2 p. m. in the Butterfield Chemical Laboratory. Dinner will be served in Hale House in the evening followed by a meeting where Dr. Langmuir will address the delegates on \Molecular Films.\ This evening meeting is open to the public and it is expected that over 1·50 will attend. The program for Saturday opens at 9 a. m. with the reading of pa- pers written by two R. P. I. stu- dents and two Union students. George W. Gross, R. P. I. '38, will deliver his paper on \Application of High Frequency to Determine Structure of Resins.\ Edward D. Homllier, R. P. I. '38, will deliver a papP!' <)11 \M:anl!far of ('hlQT<)- prene.\ Paul Santora and Matthew W. Wilson will represent Union at this time and each will read a pa- per. In the afternoon a round table discussion will be held to discuss chemical p1·pble-rns which the 50 d.elegates are expected to attend. Pageant Describes F()llnding Fathers Drawing Up Constitution Roles Still Ope11 Rehearsals Already Started; Faculty and Students Taking Pu·t . The Constitution Play c~lebra­ tmg the sesquicentennial of the signing of the Constitution of the United States is almost completely cast. The play has .been written by Dr. Fox., and rehearsals ar~ heing held on Mondays at 7:30 and Thursdays at 9 p, m, in tlleo Mem- orial Chapel. Principal .parts have been assigned to faculty members and students. A fe:w student actors are needed to complete th·e cast of fifty. Any student interes.ted in taking part in the play should see Mr. Carroll at the Mou.ntebaniLS Theatre or leav·e his naJUe at the college News Bureau. NegoUations have already been made with the Bz·ooks Costume Company .o-f Ne'W York to supply colorful and au- thentic reproductions of the dress of the period. Cast AnnoWI~II The cast of characters, as far as completed, is as follows: Alexander Hamilton ............... . . ............... :\lr. F1·ank Manheim Jnn1es Madison ... Douglas Ste\·enson P•·esi!ling Offir·er. Pl'Of. 'Leonaui Clark Jurlge Smith ........ Williarn l'.lulvey l•'armer ............. \Var1·en ·Kilnmey 1 'us tom H ou~e l'le1·k • .. • Jay Dayton llenerul .John Lamb ............... . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . Prof. James Burkett .J.ohn Lansing ............. Ten~y Ross <tovernor Clinton .............•..... ................ l'rof. Augustlls Fox Jen;eyman .......... Fredericlc Wyatt 'ride 'I.\' a iter .. l'rof. E:verett T'hatchel' Yates ..•••....•.•..•.• Lon Barringer John Jay .••..... :\11·. Cadman Hislop Robert I. .. ivingston .. Mt. \Vitlia.m ]{etz :sfieholas Law ..... Prof. Orin Fanell Mrs. Hamilton. Mi~e J.illlan Applegarth Hamilton's Hoy .•..•... David l!'a1•rell l·~dmuud Handol]>h .• Claren~ l\!oCain B~njarnin I•.,ranldin .. J·vst>ph IIennes.:~ey Geo.rge \Vashington ............ , ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Prof. <leorge l{ellogg Ulltl- Arnu~·d Yetet·all •...•...•.•. , .•. .................. Mr. Daniel Weeks C'lown . . . . . . . . Dr. Frederlok Bronner The following parts are still open: Mob Leader, Patterson, Bed- foJi.d, First Citizen, Second Citizen, Third Citizen, Inn Keeper, and General Schuyler. Mavor Attends Concla.ve Repr~sE'Ilting the American Phys- iological Society, Dl'. James W. Mavor att!'ndPd the annual meet- ing of the Federated Societies for Experimental Biology.. The rn!'eting was held in Baltimore from March 31 to April 2. After the meeting Dr. Mavm spent several days in Washington collecting material at tlie U. S. De- partment of Agriculture and the Smithsonian Institute. Cont1'ary to rumors current nn the campus, favors will be given for the Junior Prom, Albert G. Borden, Jr., chair- man of the Prom Committee, announced today. \The favors will fit in very definitely with the decorations,\ Borden said. He also stated that ticket.; should be bought immediately, since the price will rise from $5 to $6 on Saturday. Of special interest to those who cannot wait for the prom to see Larry Clinton is the fact that Clinton and his band will play for the Policeman's Ball in Troy next Friday night. Cheney Concludes Sojourn Tomorrow Honorary Fellow in Fine Arts Meets Many Classes During Visit Sheldon Cheney, noted author, critic and Honorary Fellow of Col- lege in ·Fine Arts, will conclude his current visit to the campus to- morrow aftemoon. Speaking in daily assembly this morning, meet- ing classes and discussion group~. an<.! attending rehearsals and lunch- eons, Mr. Cheney has been busy fol- lowing a three-day progt am. Arriving on campus yesterday, Mr. Cheney carried on an informal discussion with a group in Silliman Hall early in the afternoon and met the Play Production Class in the Mountebanks Theatre at 4 p. m. After dinner with Director Edward L. Carroll of the Mountebanlm, he attended the rehearsal of Dr. Fox's pageant, \The Signing of the Con- stitution.\ After his chapel address this moming, Mr. Cheney held a con- ference with Professor Green's .4.rt Class, ate luncheon at the Sigma Phi Place, and conducted a round- table discussion on the Shake- spearean Theatre at the Presi- dent's home at 3 o'clock. Attends Faculty Tea The visiting honorary felle>w will attend a taculty tea at five this afternoon and dine with Dr. and Mrs. Fox at six. Tomorrow morn- ing he will visit the library, meet a group of engineers, and conclude his stay at Union with luncheon at the Theta Delta Chi House. With the publication in 1914 of his book, \The New Movement in the Theatre,\ Mr. Cheney was ac- cepted as an authority on the thea- tre. Two years later he founded the now famous magazine, \The Thea- tre Arts Monthly\ which he con- tinued to edit until 1921. Other books continued to appear which furthered his 1eputation as a dra- matic student and critic. \The Open Air Theatre\ came in 1918; \Mod- ern Art and the Theatre\ was fol- lowed by ''A Primer uf Modern Art\ and \Stage Decoration\ three years latet·. Inte1·es'ts Varied Cheney Pessimistic About Theatre.; Says lfJ. P. A. Influence Degrading M1·. Cheney published his most famous work, the standard world history: of the theatre entitled \The Theatre-Three Thousand Years of Drama, Acting, and Stagecraft\ in· 1929. Thereafter, with equal suc- cess, he turned his attention from his hitherto limited field to a study of fine arts as a group. \The New World Architecture\ and \Expres- sionism in Art\ were the first re- sults of this expanded outlook. \Art and the Machine: an Account of In- dustrial Design in the Twentieth Century\ was written in collabora- tion with Mrs. Cheney. ~·------------------------------- In an interview witll a Concor- d! msis reporter yesterday after- noon, Sheldon Cheney expressed a feeling of pessimism concerning the immediate future of the thea- tre. He said that the W. P. A. thea- t!\es ar.e a degrading. influence since most of the actors employed in them have ·been taken fre>m the ·relief roles and were probably un- employed because of their inferior work. Mr. Cheney also deplored the re- cent tendency toward subsidation of the theatre. He expressed a be- lief that the condition of drama is better in other countries, saying, \Money has gone from the Amer- ican theatre to that in England me-rely out of sentimentality and a desire t<> pay homage to ·the past.\ Enlal'ging further on this hypo- thesis he said, \In Siberia, many unhea:rd-of towns have their own opera companies and theatre guilds. In Paris ther:e are three main theatre organizations for the production of plays. That oity i!> probably the only one in the world in which the theatre shows any ma.rked progress.\ Mr. Cheney stated, however, that he expects a gradually returning popularity of the American, stage. Explaining this, be said, \..A ve:ry large number of college students today are professing an inter- est in theatre art and production. Theatre .guilds that operate during the summer months are also very beneficial in promoting .American interest in drama among. the mid- dle class.es.\ The most recent Cheney work, \A World History of Art,\ which ap- peared last December has been styled by one reviewer, \A vast and il'lforming panorama of many worlds in one: the men and ages of painting, sculpture, architecture, and various minor arts; practically He advised men w·ho have an everything outside the theatre.\ ambition to go into bll!llness as Visitil:\g Union is not a new ex• producers on their own to stay' perience for Mr. Cheney~ Fot• two away from New York City, sa.yJng,: years he has lectured at the col- \There is very little opport'linity lege's Summer Institute of the to engage in experimental tlleatr€s Theatre. in New York City .be<:ause of ;the: ----a---- Lar1oabee at Colgate large number a.f g;llilds a.nd. orga.n- izations which have sprung up in· comiTetition with one ano.:f:her on a purely monetary basis;\ Here he was speaking ft·om bit- ter experience, since Mr. Cheney unsuccessfully tried to produce plays on Broadway .for fiv~ years after hls graduati<m frorn Univer- sity of California. Professor Harold A. Larrabee will speak to the Creighton Club at its spring meeting to be held at Col• gate University on Saturday and Sunday, April 23-24 on the subject \The Place of Philosophy in the Curriculum of the Liberal Arts Col- lege.\ Granville Hicks, Communist :Speaks Tonight for I. R. C. . Noted Author, Recently Made a Fellow at Harva1·d, Slated to Speak on \Why I Like America\ In Old Chapel at Eight o'Clock Granville Hicks, noted Communistic author and lecturer, whose recent appointment as a fellow at Harvard University has caused much nation-wide comment, will speak in the Old Chapel this evening at 8 :00 p. m. through the auspices of the International Relations Club. The subject of Mr. Hicks' lecture will be \Why I like America\ which is also the title of his book which will be publish.ed next month. CtJmmunistic Lecturer GRANVILLE IDCKS Po11nd to Arrive On Campus Friday Extensive Program Planned F()r Honorary ·Fellow Duling S t1LY Arthur Pound, Honorary Fellow in Social Studies, will talte up resi- dence .on the· campUB for a two day period, beginning Friday, April 22. On tllat date, he will address Dr. Je>hnson's classe.s from 10:20 to 12:15 a. m. Immediately following, a luncheon is to be served in Hale House at the close of which a dis- cussi<m will be held. On Saturday he will speak to the student body in daily assembly. At 10:20, he will attend Professor Cummins' class in Bailey Hall. A1·thur Pound graduated from the University of Michigan in 1907 with the Bachelor of Arts degree. Ee was managing editor of the Akl:o-n \Beacon-Journal\ from 1913 to 1~14 and fwm there he went to Grand Rapids, Michigan, to be chief ed!ltorial writer on the \Press\ until 1917. In 1918 be .served in the United States :Navy. Contributor of the \Iron Man\ .papers to the \Atlantic Monthly\ in 11121-22, Mr. Pound then went to New York and became editorial writer of the New York \Evening Post\ until 1923 and then went to the New York \Herald\ as editotial writer for a year. From 1924 to 1925 be was editor of the \Atlantic Monthly Press,\ and then associate edibr of \The Independent.\ He is research professor in Amer- ican History at the University of Pittsburgh and Trustee of the New York H;istorical Society. Mr. Pound is the author of \The Iron Mall in Industry\; \The Tele- phon.e Idea\; \Johnson of the Mo- ~awks': (with Richa.rd E, Day); Washmgton, Freeman of Albany\·· \Tile Penns of Pennsylvania. and Ertgland\; \Mountain Moming and Otlle·r Poems\; \Around the Cor- ner\; \The Twning Wheel\; \.Once a Wilderness\; \The Golden Earth\; \Second Growth\· and \IncLustrial America.\ He .is also co-editor of \They Told Ea.l'l'on \ and \More They Told Barron,\ ' Mr. Hicks, who is editor of the communistic magazine, \The New Masses,\ is also a contributm• to other publications of leftist :poli- cies, a few of which are \The :Na- tion\ and \The New Republic.\ In addition he is the author of \John R0ed: The Making of a Revolu- tionary\ and \The Great Tradi- tion,\ a study of American Liter- ature since the Civil War. Hicks was .graduated from Harvard with summa cum laude and in 1936 re- ceived a Guggenheim Fellowship. Last week. Hicks' appointment to the Harvard faculty as co.uns~lor to students in American History caused ce>mment not only on the Harvard campus but also reached the Massachusetts State Legisla- ture where a committee was ap- podnte.d to investigate the matter. Viole.nt criticism and disapproval was also. expressed by the G. .A. R. and the Veterans of Foreign Wars who are holding conventionSt at present in Boston. Not On Faeulty In a. statement to the press last Sunctay, Professor Howard Jones, he.ad of the program committee at Harvard denied any knowledge of Hicks· appointment to the faculty. He &tated that the only connection Harvard has with Hicks' at J;he present time is his recent award of one of six. fellowships in Amer- ican Histe>ry. Jones said that Eicks will live at the university and study as a studl<'n:t and will act as ne.ither teacher nor tutor. Jones also stated that he has no power to prevent Hicks from aiding men in their studies as student to stu- dent • Defended by \Crimson\ The Barvard daily newspaper, the \Crimson has defended Mr. Hicks and praises his work as the best American literature since the Civil War. The paper denounces what it terms \uniformed and fanatic political reactionaries such as exist in the Massachusetts. State Legislature,\ The Young Conserv- atives, a ~olitical club on the :Har- vard campus, also rallied to Hicks' defense in stating the.ir ()pi.Jl.ion that all pha.ses of political thought should be kept apart from ed.uca,. ti<>nal efforts and that the political affiliations of a faculty member or a student should not influence. his appointment, The only person who publicly stated his objections was Merwin. K Hart, secretary of the Young Conservatives. However, the club later apologized fot• his ac~ion. Despite this single public obJ~ction there Is a definite feeling agamst as weJI >as for Hic:!t& on the Harvard campu.s. It was discovered recently that, despite his affiliations as an alum- (Continued on Page 4) Dr. Berg To Award Prizes At April A.I.E.E. Meeting Prizes totaling $20.00 will be awm:_:ded tomorrow evening to engi- neermg students of Union College at the April meeting of the Ameri- can Institute of Electrical Elngi- neers for the best papers on techni- cal subjects. Four seniors have been selected to read papers at the meeting in- cluding . Roger Bur•gess, M~rlin Depp, Joseph Bradbury, and Crom- well Mcintosh, Jr. DI\. El'nst J, Berg, Chairman. of the ~epartment of Electrical il::ngi- neermg, has donated the prizes, $10 for the best paper and $5 eacl~ for the second and third best. The judges will consist of members of the engineering faculty and engi.o neers from the General Electric Company. The meeti~g will be held at 8 p .. m .. In the Electrical llJii.gineering bmldmg and will be open to all Interested in attending.

Page Two <lrnnrD FOUNDED 1877 \ll Caura Persa Par()/t llssai\ 1937 Member 1938 t:\ssodated Colle6iate Preu Diotribut« of ColleGiate Di5est R(!PRE9ENTEO FOR: NATIONAL. .ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Puhli£hers B.f/Jresentatit•e 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N, Y. CHICAGO • 'BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAH FRANCISCO ------------------------·-----------·--- Tilt· uff~c·ial llt'W~p:.t[H·r uf tht.: :stuUt:nt:::; of l:111Wl Col!t>ge, I•ulJlbhell Tut· .... day antl F-ridays thr0ugh~ nut the coltegl' )'l'a 1, LXl l'l•t tluring Chdstmas n11d ~pri11g ret•es~es PuLlh-ation Office, The Uazt·tle Pre::,s, 33·1 Stat\: St., fkhell<'<'ia<ly, :-<. Y., Tel<\phone 4-1Hl Entt>rt•d 'l-t tht> Sc.:hr>Iwctad·3· Post C)fr!ce a~ S~t·oud Class ~1nll i\Intte1· SuL::;r.:ri!Jtiun plic~ Fivu e~::llt!; :1. cop,r; $~.00 a YL~nl ; delivere<.l auywhcre iu th\ Uultetl Stutc.,;. Editorial Rooms, Sil1intan Hall,. Uniou Cull.e~e _____ L'_a_ll~IJilH. rl'elc!JIIOllt~, Sl'h~Jit•ctal~ I-Uq3 __ Senior Board Frederick W. Hequernbol.\rg ..... Editm-in-Chief I'd U p8ilt>n House-! -S71 U Robert C. Walter. Jr ........... .Managing Editor I•,; Upsilon I!uuse--!-8710 Robert A. Saaf .................... News Editor 1133 l'arkwoot! Blvd.-4·6lb2 H. Wyman Hitchcock ..... , .. , .. , .. Copy EdHo1 !Jeliu Upsilon Huu,;e-4·7922 Jerome Smith ............ _ ........ Sports Editor KatJpa Nu !-lou~e-·1-73~H John H. Gilmour ............. Busine:.;s Manager Deltu Up:::>iluu Ilout:>t:-•1-7~~~ Mat·vin M. Miller ... ,A,;sociale Business Manage1 I<app:t ~u lluu~e-·1-7,301 Alan C. Wrana ............. Circulation Manager ___________ K_a.l•Pa :-<u Iluuse---·l-7331 ,Junior Roa1·d C. Russeli lleyil George L. Peck Clnis!ophc·r 1\1 J<'ahy Luny Pellettler Sophomore B()ard l'uul Becker:. 'H, Edwin A. F'itz, Jr., '40, Donald Haigh, \·11 Jtlll!t Lewi~. '41, 1\t>tiiLeth .\ta(•KetLZtt•, '·11, John Phiii]ls, \41 Mortuner !{uhins, 'H, Hollen ~chuJ. l•t-rg-, '·11, J.,a~ltar Hl'ln\·artz, '4l,Junleti 1-:. 1'\Vitdug, '41, Business Staff .Max Len, '3~J, Hobert Ei:sllt:r, '•10, \Valler Fallon, '40, Stanley Gertz, '40, J ohu I3lnllil!ger, '4I, llavid !•'airfield, '41, William Humphries, '41, James Ull- lllan. ',11. Issue Editor .•........... C. Russell Deyo Assistants Lany Pellettiet· Paul Beckel' Tue~day, April 19, 1938 John Lewis John Philips STUDENT I<'ERMENT The Union College student body has re- peatedly been sco1·ed fol' its apathetic atti- THE CGNGORDJENSlS, TUESDAY, APRIL 19, 1938 democratic principles. Yet the next day the campus had ~egained its usual :lethm·gic atti- tude. Are we blind to the fact that i11 a few ·: Dots and Dashes LIBRARY SMOKESTACK i years we will be the people who will have to 1.!-====;;;;;;;;;==;;;;;;===========;;;;;;;;=====1 A great lugging of bcol!s went S0lve these Pl'eiblems? Now we can feel se-. According to all indications, . to the tune of four millions in. on in the Library dming .the Spring CUl'e in OUl' own small social S)Jlher.e ft·om Ptesident Roosevelt's recovery pro- seven months. vacation; the smekestack in the gram Number Two wiU meet much These added millions sent the a•l- center had gmwn too Sinall .for the these pt·e.ssing affairs; bat when the l\eS1)011- opposition. Th·e same c0alition of t·eady bad relief o;ituation to worse,. display of general ~eadiug. So an edict went forth, and' n~w most of sibilities are thrust upon us, will we he ca.pa-. splenetic Democrats and chr·onic Funds were depleted. Many large· . . h Republicans that to1 pedoed his Re- cf.ties had to r·equest additional gov- the smoke~tack is inliu d Wll ble of handling them and bring·ing them to organizaticm Bill will 1be out to ernment aid. Detroi.t, with one-, ponderoHs and gilded cnqclo- 't bl 1 · '/ Th · ur · smear .the recovery measure, but: thitd of its population on. relief, is paedias. One section is lleld for the a SUI a 'e COllC USlO:t:l • , e ans,wer l'S no. n e • their method of attack ,is quite! in extremely difficult circumstances.' brand new books which C{)tne off can only hepe to meet these responsibilities likely te be 0f different caliber. The Does it seem logical that a situa-: the assembly belt in the catatog;uing Stol ., t\s that the opposition wil'l tion Hke this can be left to the, 'room. satisfaCtOl'ily by C011Sidel'ing then.1 today, we not ~ppose the ~assage of the meas- vagaries of >COnfidence in blliliness? But the genetal Ha:ding gets will 1nake ,mistakes, but it wiN be much ures but will merely earmark the If pl'ivate enterprise cannot cate' wider and better space in the . appropriations for the \home town • for these ind,ividuals, then the gov-: ·shelves surrounding .the ·1:ealling wiser if we are 1'11 a position to :p'l~ofit by boys.\ That is to say, the money ernment can and must do so. The room, and the reshuffling means these errors now tlu:m if we rnake them intended for com·prehcnsive tellet' Admi·nistration owes its office as' that several rnmd·red volumes of , and public works programs wiH be much to those unfortunates ·on r-e- 1 distinguished' l'eading ·it~ all fields. when the responsibilites are 0lH' own and the turned into political bacon. It is a lief as to .the r~st of the electorate. have found ring-side positions. The clever scheme. The opposition can' Tt has obligations to them as well, ·rearrangement is admir2ble. It is consequences grave. say to the public: see, we tried to as to the economically secm·e. like meeting old friends. This week the college is g.iving the student make the Administralio:n curtail ex- The following information will The column today :proposes just pcnses, At the same time, they can .pezhaps be ·of Interest to those in-. to mention at random a fevv of the body two 01~portunities to focus i<ts attentien l.LSe the money to strengthen the it· div:idHals who thin.k. that peoJ?le on gteat ·books which you will and Ol! CUl'l'ent problents. '!1omorrGW eveniiH.!, own positions at horne. tellef are bums IJVmg the llfe of .there on the shelves. ClJances are ~ Bacchus. The Doe family is on they will make a more interesting Granville Hicks, former editor of The New . All. this would just be dirty .pol:i- home relief. Mrs. Doe, a widow, Is rereading than a first 1·eading of . . trcs 1f 1t were not for the economtc not eligible for work relief. Mt.s. most of the offerings of the Spring J.\Iasses, a COml11UlllSt magazine, and recently • plight of the country today. But Doe's family consists of her daugh-: of 1938. D\iven a fellowship b:v Harvard wjU address we hav~ 13 million anemploye.d and ter·, a girl of junior high school There's Havelo<>k Ellls\s•l uminous \' • . ' 25 m1l110n dependent on relief of age and Mrs Doe's agel! fathet· h d b d · ' · '· · · · · · discussion of values, \The Da,.nce t e stu ent o y on the broad subject \Why ·one form or another. That maltes This family receives an aHowance' of Life,\ and James Har\Ve:y Robin- 1 1 '1 A ; \ Th d • \T it filthy .politics. That 25 mil'lion of twenty dollars a month for rent h Th .,. •. d . tl 1 H! meiiCa. Ul'S ay eV€1UHg', a OWn people must either have relief or . ·: sen's epoc al \ · e .mUl ID 1e Thete IS a smal~ sum for fuel and, Making·.\ And those .com:plementing Hall\ meeting will be held in th.e Old: Chapel starve. . finally, a food hcltet, not cash, f~r volumes, Karl Menninger-'s \The to discuss the New York State Constitu- But, the opposition says, we must seven dollars and fifteen cents. Thls: Human Mind\ and Logan Clenden- cm tail relief expenditures. H will must feed lhree persons for , one ing's \The Human 'Rod:;y.\ Walter tiona! Convention which ·iS now in session. be hard for those on t·e!ief, but if W€'ek. The .fact th!'t they are gwen Lippmann's \The Good Smi.-ty\ has Here is an excellent opportl:lnity for US to we stop this awful spending pl:o- a food. tt~ket ~nstead of cash not yet gathered must dust. R. L. gram, private business will soon makes lt tmpos~tble to· take .ad- Mencken's \The Ainerica.li Lan- become involved in two important present gain confidence and put those mil- :rantage of .the dtfferet;ce of pnces guage\ grows fattet· with each edi- day problems. If we do not ag·r,ee Wl'·th lions back to work. Docs their ar- m food amon.g the var10us ~tares .. , tion; the fourth is full .of delight. gument hold watet'? . Make 8J srmple calculatwn. Dt- A great piece of sociological re- evel ·vthl.l10' sai·d tl e 1 t ' b vtde $ 7 · 15 by 21 • the average num. -,. search t's \500 Crim~~ai Careei's\ by • o , l n e US VOICe OUl' 0 - The gove1nment stopped its b f 1 k y 1 .. ~. er o mea s per wee · ou Wll · Sheldon and Eleanor Glueclt. And jection loud and lustily. Let's lose OUl' leth- \awful\ spending program prior to find that the D<;>e family pays $.34 speaking of sociology, :how about . I ] d l the start of ,the present 1ecession per meaL That 1s for three pe?ple. \Eleven Plays by Hendt·Ik J:bsen\ at•gJC C Oa { an S 10W that we are alive by in November -last. But business did Now let t~ree students take thtrty- or Bernard Shaw ad lib'? How taking sides. not gain coiJfi.dence, and business four penmes and present them. to many students have tackled the did not \soon\ put the millions back the Manager of Hale House, li).s~mg great biography of Robert E. Lee to work. Instead they laid off men for a meal for three. Horatw. by Douglas Southall, or raced through the too brief \Something Concordiensis Poll MUSIC 'ALES Editot·'s Note: This is the · ' first of a smies of articles which This Friday evening the Alpha Delta Phi will be published regularly in I I of Myself\ by Rudyard Eipling? I I Also Arnold Bennetts J\(Juxnal? M 0 1 I 0 N And here arc some familiar novel titles: Romanin Rolland's Jean !.:;;;;;;=============;;:,! Christophe; Evelyn Scott's Th€' The Concordiensis on the re- David 0. Selznick's The Adv<>n- fruternity presents to its guests a concert suits of its student question· ture of Tom Sawyet· is an elabo- b l\I' p r p· . . naire gi.ven last month. rate, amusing picture, which de- y ·ISS au me Ierce, rlSing young mezzo- __ serves to be much better than it is. soprano who is gaining considerable repu- \Dese1·ves to be,\ we say, because . h A total of 524 students answered a great deal of time was spent tatwn t rough her association with the most of the questions 011 the ques- selecting the two children to play Julliard School of 1\Iusic and through her tionnaire. By ·classes: Tom and Becky, and because the Seniors 107 production department, in its search work on the radio. Juniors 103 for accUl'acy and realism, took This effort of Alpha Delta Phi's in follow- SFotJ,>ehs'hommoenres 11~12 such pains as measuring the houses ~ that stood in Hannibal, Missouri, ing a precedent established last year by th.e 1. The first question asked for in the period in which the story Kappa Alpha Society is especially com·mend- political affiliations of the students. takes place. And, in a way, that The Republican party received 227 emphasis up~n accuracy is the key able. We hope that the next few years will votes, the Democratic party 132 and to the pictme's missing fire. There see other fratemities fosterincr similar c•·ll- Socialist, 16. 'Fascists outnumbered· is too much attention to detail and <> ' the Communillts two to one, with a too little to spirit. The vita.!ity tural events which Will enrich CO!Ieg·e Jife. majo1ity of f<lUr to two. By classes: which has kept the book popular is R b absent from the picture. If this R A S epu li- Dem<J-, · · · can crat seems silly to you, try re-reading. Seniors . . .. . .. . . . . 59 27 the book--·or, better yet, read Juniors , , , . . . . . . . . 37 29 Hueldeberry Finn, in which at- S h 57 2 mosphere plays a more important op om orcs . . . . . . . 4 part. Wave; Sackville· West's All ,passion Spent; Ruth Sucltow's 'Ihe Follts, and Sigrid Undset\s l{risti!t Lav- •·ansdatter. IL W. B. ----0---- NOTARY PUBtiC This column t·eaches the press just as the paper goes t<> bed. We were out of town over the -week- end minding nur own lmsiness (for once). Many an inc 11 has. here been devoted to personalities other than us., but may we toot our- own horn just this once? Having been away from college over :Ea;ster, we tur.n to ourselves as the source of material to satisfy ·tl\)je curious gre.ed of the Concordy reader. tude toward cutTent prol.Jlems. This criti- cism seems justifiable, when the continual And at Other Colleges · · • Fteshmen .. . .. . .. . 74 32 B t d ff u , to o our captiousness, we 2. Concerning work done by stu- must mention tllat the incidents dent unde1· N. Y. A, outside of col- for which the book is best remem- lege and in at'lsistance of families bezed are all faithfully preo;ented. a total of 82 students replied that And, if memory serves, this version they we1e working under N. Y. 'A. is somewhat better than the Worlt outside of college is .being Jacltie Coogan-Junior Durkin film, done by 210. and 38 are helping· also directed by Norman Taurog. support their families. By classes: Then, too, the ex{!ellent cave scenes We left for ·ho·me (N. Y.) Satur- day just after Chaopel, 1:'\lough we had planned to attend that 'last long ten-thirty class, We tele- phoned a friend or two to find company for the rid·e, but found no one. How odd! Usually so many want to go along tltat we have to slip out surreptitiously thru Payne Gate; leaving a fist- waVolng mass behind wh],le \Ve run away with a friend. P olitical ferment aroused on the Columbia Following our example, students maJotmg in po- litical science at SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY will take part in commemorating the ratification of the United and Wisconsin campuses is considered. The students of these universities have often been tagg-ed erroneously as \reds\, \social Cl'aC]{-pots\ or Fascists by the more con- servative members of om· citizenry. Un- questionably they may often place the wrong emphasis on their emotions, but their col- legiate life is certainly more commendable than the dead existence we maintain. At least, they are applying their education. Each year the college gives the student body the privilege of hearing some of the world's foremost auth()rities on dramatics, science, history, economics, and govemment discuss current problems be,.setting their specific fields. Yet if the attendance at their lectur.es can be taken as a criterion of stu- dent interest, it appears that the C()llege is wasting its resources. One of the rare occa- sions when the student body was raised out of its lethargy came last December when Fritz Kuhn, the American Nazi Bund Leader, was invited to speak on the campus by the International Relations Club after nearby civic organizations had denied him the right of free speech. These same civic groups at- tacked the colleg-e administration for allow- ing such a nefarious individual as Mr. Ruhn address a group of impressionable students. Fascism would surely gain a foothold at ,Union, they said. Mr. Kuhn's arguments did not fall on sympathetic ears and the next day the campus had fol'gotten that such a thing as Fascism .existed. Thi.s attitude was unfortunate but not un- expected. The night before Fascism had been r;;hown up as a definite menace to om· States Constitution, A cast of sixty will reproduce the New York Convention of 178&. The convention will be re-enacted in full Colonial costumes. A dance, a banquet, and a pag.eant, all In c·olonial dress, are also included on the program. Outside Family were designed by William Menzies, N.Y.A. Work Help who is said to be \the only great Seni01s . . . :JO 55 13 designer ever developed in Holly- Juniors . . . 13 37 4 wood.\ * • * The Fo.shion Club of SKIDMORE COLLEGE car- ried out a unique experiment recently when it at- tempted to simulate a regular Paris opening and fashion show for the student body. The dresses were made and designed by the students themselves, who attempted to forecast the summer and fall styles. Buyers looked on to see what models they .would select and a fashion commentator and reporter were also present. Sophom()res 31 71 20 Tommy Kell~. Ann Gillis, Jackie Freshmen 9 47 3 Moran and Mickey Rentschler are fine in the junior division; May . 3. Will the nation's program for· Robson is sentimental but good, and mmcaBed armaments hell> the finan- Walter Brennan is swe11 as Muff cia! condition .of the United States? Potter. * Women students at SWARTHMORE COLLEGE have been admitted to classes in blacksmithing this yPar in an eff01 t to give them an opportunity to learn how \to do something with their hands besides knitting.\ The CITY COLLEGE OF NEW YORK will pre- sent its semi-annual varsity show this weekend. The production titled \In the Groove\ will lampoon col- lege life, women juries, child marriages, the theatri- cal ventures of the Internalional Ladies' Garment Workers Union, and the World's Fair, • * The MERCER UNIVERSITY student body recently amended its constitution by malting beatings and detrimental hll.zing a punishable offense, • * In a recent National Survey of Student Opinion sponsored by the BROWN DAILY HERALD it was found that the average college student does not approve of a Consumer's Boycott again~t Japan, compulsory R. 0. T. C., collective security, or par- ticipation in a foreign war. * Yes Seniors . . . .. . .. . . . . 29 Juniors ........... 31 Sophom<Jres . . . . . . . 30 Freshmen .. , . , , , , . 36 Totals . . .. . . . . .. . 129 No 67 60 114 104 31fj 4. Would you apptove an increase in tuition or tax up to $400 a yea.r to help the college? Senior.s and juniors were the most altruistically- minded: Yes No Seniors .. -. . . . . . . . 53 55 Juniors ...... :. . . . 33 64 Sophomozes . . . . . . . 38 114 Freshmen . . . . . . . . . 31 110 ·rota! ........• , .. 158 343 5 .. Arc you a \swing\ enthusiast? Senwr~ revealed surprising con- servatism as compared to the over- whelming SU]lport given in the other three classes: Yes Seniors .. .. .. . • .. . 52 Juniors .. . .. .. .. .. 61 Sophommes ... _... 89 Freshmen ......... 109 Total .... , ... , . . . 311 No 54 56 56 53 219 Favorite orchestras are as fol- Two WASHINGTON and JEFFERSON undergrad- lows in orde1· of total selection: uates recently phoned the Czech{)s!ovakian embu.ssy. ·Benny Goodm~n, Tommy Dorsey and offered the services of the \Thomas Jefferson Guy Lombard<>, Wayne Ring, Rus~ Brigade\ for lhe purpose of repelling the expected Morgan, and U. S. Army Band. German invasion. They erroneously reported that the 6. Do vou listen to NBC .& Phil- brigade consisted of 200 men and 6() horses. The 11ext h \ day they were conftonted with a telegram from armonic symphony concerts? Tid- Czechs accepting the! r offer. .After losing their be- marsh recitals·? wilderment, they went to worlt and formed a regi- Symphony Tldrnarsh men t of 150 students, the majority of whom signed Seniors · . . . . . . 92 £8 as officers. The group has adopted a blazing red Juniors · ·. ... . . 76 57 shirt as their uniform calculated to· \enrage and Sophomores ... 103 106 dazzle Hitler.\ Freshmen ..... 102 106 * * * The second featme, This Mru·- l'iage Business, is colossally, stu- pendously mediocre,-o~ even less. The story is bad and most o,f the cast worse. Worthy of commenda- tion, however, are Jack Carson and Victor Moore. And, oh, yes! There is also a hefty brunette who io; quite ogleable (grrr! what a word!) Sorry, but we didn't catch her name. J. M. CALENDAR Tonight 8:00 p. m.-Granville Hicks speaks undar the auspices of the International Relations Club in Old Chapel. Tom()rr~w Mr. Sheldon Cheney concludes his visit to the campus. 10:00 a. rn.--Da.i!y Ass.embly-- J. Laurence Hennessey '38 2:00 p. m.-Bu.s.eball; Union vs. Colgate at Hamilton 8:00 p. m.-8chenectady branch of the League of Nations Association, Old Chapel. Speaker, lv.I. Pierre de Lan- oux, French author. Thursday 10:00 a. rn.-Daily Assembly- M. de ·Lanoux. 8:00 p. m.,--Tfrwn Hall Discus- sion on the State Constitu- tional Convention. Friday Mr. Arthur; Pound, Honorat·y Fellow in Social Studies, ar- rives on camp\ls. 10:00 a. m.--Daily Assembly-- Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh. J<Jb interviews. beginning at 9:30 a. rn., with Mr. J. F. Pil- kington, Travelers Insurance Company. Well, we were alone this time o,n our twenty-fifth motor lr-ip to New York. The to}) \Vas dowr1 and we were wearing sun goggles. That is why we have that od.(l, sun:burn and those large white spcits. around the eyes and that, too, i-s vvhy our hat blew off,. and that is -why we met a most charming disarming young .lady whose car ran over our Easter bonnet, but tbat .sell.l'<le\ Iy mattered. Outside of Albany Miss \1-W-1\ (her licens.e nlate number) turned to Bosto11 and points East; we went f<>r Pough- keepsie and was about five miles from that Vasso.1' town w:hen we passed a speeding C\hevvy. Jlut the Chevyy tried to pass us in turn. a minute later, just like :Mr. Mann- heim. We put out• all on deal' old Ford V-8 but the Chcvvy w·as, slow- ly gaining and was passing -wh-en we g'ot our second wind and drew ahead. Then f.rom the Ch.evvy, still a yard behind, carne the sound of a police siren. :N~. we said to ourselves; not the police again. But it was the police and we were forced to 'PUll o'\Ver to the roadside and show our dt·i\Ver·'s li- cense to an ununiformeil. ,county s·heriff. \Follow me- to t:he ju<lge,\ he said, \and try to eJtpla.in· to him why you were doing: sev~mty.\ (Poor .... ) We followed <1oggedly into Poughkeepsie but t11e ,sheriff stopped after a mile. He came back to my car. Maybe he is going to handcuff me to tbe wheel, I thought. \How about f1>rgeitlng the whole thing for two tlclte,ts to the Policemen's BaJ!?\ And now we have two tickets for tlle Pough- keepsie Charity Ball f<lr ·next Fri· day .. (Any young lady wl:l;{) chances to read this column and would like to accl'lmpany us .to the .afore:rnen- tioned affair pleas•e contact us· at once.) Now, Easter Sunday in New York might have been :fine if it had not drizzled, if we had a silk hat an4 morning coat, bt~:t vve don- ned a blue s.erge, stuffed a white handkerchief in our breast pock-et and walked a:long Park and Fifth, up and down, back and :for-th, !Jut nobody noticed us., uot even the (Continued on Page 4ol Sp Var OJ Lineu] Unior augurat tomonc where plays h less th2 \Play l Watlter as to v{ be for · There that th• wotkin~ for Uni• cult ftgl son, thE there VI :fighting host of dates w men fo1 enced ,t a nip·a;J ing ass: conting• pitchers improve veillane Look ing no seemed opening selves f1 who cot a utilit The tea but 15 garden: catcherE five twi enced. 1 fielders Stf Butt announc against scholast the Dea reach : afternoc infielder twirlers, of sendi upon th the infi Nelson lineup 1 new pos At pre leftfieldE fielder, fielder, outfield. the onl~ a pitchE F'or h been us and Do: ers, at 1 second, and Bol case of er, eith will hav a differe AI M Hanson, rich for Harry F catcher< the wee to mak• morrow . hurlers leaving pitchers ~ The V• t.ain Tl Yunich. Mould, act.ion v year. D: heavy Duchsct Carr f{)I Fresh 0 Althm Green J more th tbe fre been rc satlsfaci thinks successf Lack the chie present, trying t the da: cubs h: agajnst scrimm~ teams. No de yet, but Ciesins~ with \T base, Al down S( and vtl \Micke~ play sh third: b: ably be bury, :c Mallico1 right J Moran form ilL may gE althoug: doing c

went Spring in the for the So an most of with cn{!yclo- for the of'f gets rn the ·r:ealling means of fields. The It is juBt of the fi·nd an' eresting ding of Spring· Da,nce Robin- in the menting \The Walter has R. L. Lan- edi- re- by lt. And about J:bsen\ How led the E. Lee raced novel s Jean The •Passion FOlliS, Lav- W.B. e· press We v.reek- here other own been we of curious Satur- we 'last c tele- to .find found ally so we a fis.t- we run is time lr-ip to a.nd That !Lround our we over sea.rce- A.lba:ny ulate and Pough- ·miles we the tum. a Mann- cal' old slow- 'Wh-en d drew the N\o we police ce and the li- ·eounty ju<lge,\ to ·Sheriff going I geiting to now Pough- xt Fri· like us· at New e if it a silk don,. white pock-et Fifth, !Jut the Sporfs Secfion 'I'HE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, APRIL 19, 1938 Pag~ Three Baseball Team To Usher In Spring Season ~--~----------------------------·-------------------------------------------------------------------- Tomorrow Varsity's Chances Of Success Slight Varsi:ty Lacrosse Squad Fllculty Is in Act of Rebuild,ing- Boasting St.ro.ng Ninli Freshman Lac1·osse Team To Meet R. P. I. S.attu·day SOFTBAlL RACE S1'ARTED Lineup Against Colg·ate As Yet Undecided ---0--- Freshman Baseball Outlook Encouraging TENNIS REGULATIONS 1. All players MUST wear TEN- NJ:S SHOES with sort pliable soles: (Basketball and other types of shoes are not ac- ceptable.) 2. Studente and Faculty only shall be permitted the use of the courts. 3. D()ubles should be i>layed whenever po,'3sible so as to insure use of the courts to the maximum number of players. 4. If persons ~re waiting to play, both singles and dou- bles players are to- be per- Although u 1 e opening game with mitted to finish their set be- Green Mountain Junior College is fore vacating. In the event more than two weeks in the future, that the set goes to deuce, the freshman baseball team has play shall stop at once. been rounding into shape rather 5. The tennis courts will close satisfactorily. Coach Art Lawrence on week-days at 6 p. oo. thinks that \the prospects for a 6. Play on Sunday shall be re- successful season are encouraging.\ striated to the hours of 1 Lack of seasoning seems to be p. m. to 5:30 p. m., and all the chief weakness of lhe squad at players must be dressed in a present, and Lawrence has been CLEAN WIUTE COSTUME. trying to iron out this difficulty in 7. Workmen engaged i11 re- the dally practice sessions. The pairing o r m ark In g the cubs have showed up creditably courts are to be permitted to agajnst the varsity squad in the complete their taslt before scrimmage games between the two play can start. teams. 8. The caretaker shall be sole No definite lineup has been chosen judge as tq the use of the yet, but it is probable that Adam courts after rainy weather, Ciesin11ki will go behind the plate with \Tiny'' Weintraub playing first 9. Children of the Faculty mem- base, Al Turcllick has been ·holding hers shall be permitted the down second base in the practices, use of the courts if any are and will probably get the call vacant but NEVER to the \Mickey\ Rathlev is expected to exclusion Of the two above play shortstop, and \Dud'' Holmes named groups·. third; base. The outfield will prob- 10. 1Jse of the indoor court in ably be composed of Fred Kings- the gymnasium will be re- bury, Diamond Marotta., and Guy served for the varsity squad Mallicone, playing left, center, and when inclement wealher pro- rig-ht fields, .respectively. ;Roger hibits its practice outdooi's, Moran has sho,wed considerable 11. Violators of the above rules form i11 the hurling department and will de denied the privilege In:ti·amural Softball , Wit b the spring sports teams ap- Wednesday, April 20, 12:45- ' 1!' th · L.am)).da Chi Alpha vs. Kappa prt;Jac mg. e1r opening contests, it s 1 g 01 a; Kappa Alpha vs. Sigma Phi. 1 BELLINGER PAINT CO. Arthur Trigg, Prop. Paints, Oils, Varnishes, Glass, Brushes and Wall Faper 126 BROADWAY CAPITOL THEATRE· ALBANY WEEK OF APRIL. 18th MAT. WED. aad SAT. Square Players PRESENT II JULIIfS CAESAR 11 New York Cast ll:lld' Pr<>duction • Direction Randolp'h Somerville PRICES I EVE,: ()r~~eslra $1.10 • .83 Mezzanine $1:10 Balcony .5S IttC. TAX MAT.: T\k:cts .77 - Students .40 SEATS NOW,::..:::~ II A.;:';'.;~~~N ~='¢i,\' MAIL ORDERS Union Colle·ge Night. Tues •• Apr. 19 Dr~ Fox Will Address Audience Is mterestmg to note when they be-' Tihul:\sday April 21, 12: 4 D-Phi• i ~an itheir inter·collegiate competi- Delta 'Th-eta vs. Chi Psi; Kappa , tJon. As staled before in this col- Nu vs. Neutrals. iL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:::;:=:=:=:=:=:==:=:=:=:~ wnn,. the oldest team at Union is F - the •baseball aggregation that pia,-· · rirlay, April 22, 12:45 - Phi :: d · 1 fi \ Garruna Delta vs. Psi Upsilon· :, e ~ s rst game on May 19, 1860 Alpba. Phi Delta vs. Delta Phi. ' ·.; 11111 •• '=,, agam:st the Mohawks. Its first in- A .g;roup will be given five min- tercol legiate game however was against R. P. I. on June 20 , 1868 . utes' leeway to PI'esent a full team on the :field. The'S core has not as yet been dis- S()ftball Results 'i1 covered. The track team with M Monday, Apiil 18-Aipha Delta !§ seasons behiud it is the second old- Phi, 17; Alpha Phi Delta, 4. Theta ;: est sp..a1·t. In 1875 at 'Saratoga the L' Delta Chi,. 19; Phi Sigma Kappa, 18. ii C. 4·At.. held its first meet and one .i,l, of Un:ion's representatives, Charles Culv~:r '78, won the quarter-mile Resta.urn.11t-Ta.ll ll.o()m·Dellcatessen '!§ event. It was not until 1893 how- .G 0 L D I s '1 .. _1 eve1· I:Jefore the team had its first dual'lneet. On May 17 the lads from ~~ Willia:.ms were defeated, 82 to 71. '!1 On May 28, 1892 two representatives ALWAYS POPULAR !1 of the College were entered in the i1 State Intercollegiate Tennis meet I~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ :: at Utica. Campbell '94, toolt a sec- II \ ·.Ji.: ond place while Daley '94, took a I third• rn 1906 an informal tennis A.a•ERICAN A·l LAUNDRY ii tcarn met Syracuse in its fi1 st duel 111 • !1 in ScJhenectady, going down to de- \ feat, •1 to 2. Competition in Golf 111e M()st Perfect j ii begatL with the entry of a team in !! the New York State Champion- laundry Work in the Ill ships ln 1923 with dual meets be- · !: ginning- the follo\ving year. The Capital District 'l·.,i.,l baby team of the Intercollegiate Ann~ouncing • • Formal O·penin~g of progr·:am, Lacrosse, began its com- P!., 4-3166 1030 Bal\reft St. ' !: ~~~~.ion on May 3, l924 against Col- l!~ tvt E N ' S S H 0 P m CONNELLY BIIOTHERS DAIRY Inc .. 1858 Hamburg Street PHONE 2·0910 lnteusttd in Schenectady l~tcrested in UNION r.1AURICE B. GRAUBART Tke Jay S:tret:t !WJe/er 156 jAY STREET and Jewelry Repairing a Specit!lt, J> ARKER PENS THE CAMPUS BAIIIER SHOP Basement o-f Silli111.an Hall A Special Service for ~nion Students .Ant.th.ony F. Barbieri Hours: 1:30-7:00 F. M. 1 m ii~ At New locat1.on Ill ,·,c.h m : m q m '!!· ~:: 14 STATE ST ... 11~ OJ • m ~ rn ii~ Corner LafayeHe [Wemple Buildin9) iJj ~ rn ~ rn ' ·.i •. r rn d m :! ~ I ~ m ~ m ~ I ~ m ~_;,: .~.·.i ;i ! : i I ~ ,i ~~~~~~~i l~ ·: LOUIS WASSERMAN 9UALITY MEAT :MARKET 31i4 Bl\oadway Phomes 4·3364, 4·3365 • Hart-Sc~affner Marx Suits • Mallory Hats GAZETTE PRESS • lnterwov~n Hose • Hickock :Braces Printing • Other Nationally Advertised Brands The Store wi'f/1 the Metropolitan Atmosphere may get the opening assignment, of using the courts. although Ken MacKenzie has been '~;u;==========================JIH,: doing quite well. I 1.!=============;;;;!.1 - t:l



I I ~ I i i Le:ague Co~mi+tee Discusses Convervt-ion z 511 r •• t • Chemists SlS Hold First Annual Colloquium PRICE FIVE CENTS UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 1938 .~==~==~=r==============~~~ ==~ Vol. LXI., No. 49 I \TownHall\ Audience Makes Hicks A~v.ocates Eight Juniors Are Elected 8 ~U;P:cci:::es Suggestions For Convention ~~~c=!!i:C~! To Hale Clu.b Membership New Dean~ s List Over Seniors fJace '7:& and JuniOI's . 56 fc,1· AJ.nil 1lith 300 Representatives of Civic Groups Attend. Meeting; H~ch: P1·ediets Rtnal-Urban Clash on Possible Changes Peri()d Names First Ten Men Dean Announces 'Leaders New Arrangement For Rating Thursday, Aprii 21.-Three hund1·ed rep1·esentatives of civic groups gathered at th.e \Town Hall Meeting\ on the New Yo1·k Constitutional Convention held in Old Cha:pel to- in night for- the purpose of focusing attention on the work of the convention. Many of the suggested changes in th.e con- stitutioH were brought before those present and Walter Mc- Speal<s Befo1·e Intei·na- tional Relations Club On Recent Book Is Noted Communist Communism Will P1·ovide Life of Abundance for Entire Nation With the senior class having 76 men and the junio1s 56- on the list of students cited :for· scholastic at- tainment issued by the Dean yester- day a slight increase was registered over the last marking period when the former had only 71 and the lat- ter 55. However both classes are still well below the lligh rating achieved on the November 15 mark- Ing when the senior•s had the excep- tional number of Gtl and the juniors 70 on the Dean's List. Nab, delegate from th.is district, promised to carry back to· America's capacity to produce suf- ficient goods to enable all of ite Albany the resolutions presented. people to live in decency and com- Following an analysis of the<-'•>--------------- cunstitution by OswaltL Heck, chairman of the meeting, members of the audien.ce voiced opinions on matters that should be brought before the convention. Heck,' speaking as \a personal individual and not as speaker of the Assem- bly ov as a representative ·of any party,\ described what he believed' would be the results of the con- vention. First he declared that he believed .relief has become a per- manent part of governmental re- sponsibility a.nd that the biggest clash in. the convention would. come between the rural an.d urban forces a.ncL that this difference: would be accentuated ·in cases where the interests of New York: Under a new arrangement pre- for this marking period. pared by Dean Gar1s the ten highest ·ranking men in·each class have been indicated in the scholarship rating Class o~ HIS~ ·llachelor of Arts-' Lou H. Barriu- ger, John Brand, Bemard F. Carron, Harlan U. <'ar~un, Joge•ph Clifford, \)orninick DeL·isa., Arby A. Ha:lper111 H.oLert L. Hayue1·, l•'l'edt·il'k W. He- t!Ut::Hll>OUlg, Paul B. 1-lum}Jhrey, Fran~ ris Juracka, lleruard S. Krause, 1.1el- vin D. Lavt-llder, :\Ia.x J,_,en, *~tanley R. LieLma•u, Stanley Lulce, DaYid B ~Liller, Halls ~~ uuzor, Anthony \~'. X.o:;utlae.d, :::lrvit1g J • .Neh<:h:. Peler H 1}\\t'll~, *Luui::; E. Pu,ge, Jt·., '*ilenjarnir1 Ilathl.Jun. Jr., *~1yf::lr llie~. F'ratll\. Sa.i- clel, >:<Bernard .-\. Sl1aper(), Hubert A. Squire, T. Douglas o. Stev·en~on~ Aver~ 111 T'. ~t~wurt, l~dwarc.l D. Thonurun, K\tllldh ll. \ illJddvlll.l'lt, Huwat·d t:. \\anK~uren Ilauy G. \Valling, ltuhert C. \Valter, Jr., Roben C. \Varner, G. Tomer C. Way, llavid L. Yunieh, Jrv~ htg Zweig, HS in Chi! Eng-iueet'iug-Dougla.s K. Blue, Ph1l!p 1Jueh~t·l1ercr, Sumner B. Irish, fi\rPti Townseml. liS ht ElectrJeai ·Engineerlng- Thurnas A. Burlte, Jt·., William Hodges, !edwin J. Jaclt:;on, !<'rank .Mele, •neu- ben M:erchant, Aal-on G. H.eirnann, *William T. Thomas, .A. 'William White. liS in Cltemi~try-Itaymond \V. Bar- day, J. Bert Curley, *Renato C. Po- matti, Howard E. l:lh\ffer. HerLert F. Zuhr. BS. In Phlsic.s-I<'rank L. 1\!oore, Jr. Class or 1938 Bacltelor of Arts - H. Laurence Achilles, •Harold R. AckeJ•man, Jr., John n. Bergstrom, Carl B. Booth, 'Vilmar K llose, Jack C. Bowie, John \V. Britteu, DeWitt Bt·own, Donald \V. BuC\hanan Joseph R. ·Ca..farella, An- llwny A. Canale, John w. Cebula, Benjamin Cohen, *Vietor Cohen, Lionel B. Colol.ly, G. Rehmi Denton, gds·on V. S. Draper, Andrew IJryburgh, Willian1 E. Endicott, Hyman A. Enzer, Sa .. muel \'IT. Farr, Ro):lert H. Ferguson, Donald 1'. For<l, Paul .LVI. Goldborg, •Willat·<l L. Hagadorn, Jr .. Henry I>. Hartmann, H•orace l'o;. Holbrook, 'Charles B. lion- ike!, Duaalcl U. Hotaling, •Charles H. !Iouse, Jr., Elmer T. Jolmson, Harri- B'<>n l\1. KarJ>, John J. Kelley, Herman Kes•let·, Stanley Kollin, Arthur B. l..awreace. Jr., \Vesley E. Leonar?, IJ.uane J,eTarte, Jl>Beph J. McNetl. 'Marvin l\1. 1\iiller, 1\Ielvha I. Muroff, Harry B. Myers, Bernard Olender, Andrew \V. Pasidntyk, Norman N. Pomerantz, John B. Reddy, Arnold 0. Riley, Howard K S\!nds Jr .. , Th?m<.s J.. St'herm~rhorn, George 'I! .s~·ott, Henry 111. Seider, \Alfred H. Sergi';', l{oLert B. Shepard, Jr., lt?bert ~· smith, Jerome Spellman, Wtlham h. swanson, *Carl R. •rrahman, ~uss!\ll Trudell, John \V. Vanf-aalt. Ma;tm Vts- I'USi Charles C. \\7tl.lerley, Ed ward Wickert, Jr., Charles f,. \Vitham, John S. \Void. ,. •. 11 d W BS !n Civil Engineering- ,v 1 a1· · Dean, Bernat·d V. Jr.<collelt, Clyde B. Marshall Jr., Ralph S. Pearse. BS in Electricnl Ellglnc!':rl!L~Joseph T. Bradbury, Richard Kovartr, Crom- well Mcintosh Jr. b . BS in Chemistry-William J. Jaco el: Jr., Arthur C. Santora, Jl.!atthew \\. \Vllson. D . J BS in Pbyslcs-.1. HoLert · otg, r., Louis C. J:.Iaples. City conflicted with the interests of upstate communities. And in this conflict he, believed political lines would. break down and the delegates would divide on geo- graphical lines, Avoid Political Strife Mr. Heck said that special ef- forts have been made -by leaders of both par.ties not to inject poli- tical issues into the conveution and to avoid strife. With that in mind no prog-rams have 'been ad- vanced by either party and the aim will be t() consider every piece of constitutional legislation on its merit alane without regard for its origin in the. best \Town Hall\ spirit. In conclusion he pointed out that while othe.r natio.ns may be losing rights and prerogatives, we in America-and especially in New York s.tate-s.till have an. OJppor- tunity to air Ol.ll' views and dis- cuss questions concerni!l:g our wel- fare and the welfare of the state .. There were divergent opinions. as to the principles that should underly the changes to be made in the state constitution. The League of Women Voters received most support with their program that proposed to rnak.e the constitution a framework of broad principles regulating the economic. social and judiciaJ life of the state and leave to the legislature the specific recommendations to be ma.de.. Wan.t 2% Limit 'J'he taxpay-ers associ<ttion de- sired concrEte provisions such as limlting the expenditures of towns under 100,0()0 to 2% of the assessed valuation of such towns. Walter H. Main, speaking for. the newspaper editors, urged that the del~gates work to safeguard an uncensored press. He said, \If an unhampered press and unrestr:=tin- ed public discussion were reqmred 150 years ago when our state gov- ernment wa.s relatively simple, how much morae is freedom of speech required now when state govern- ment is so c{)mplex that no one man can hardly comprehend it at all.\ Organized labor pres~nted eleven proposals. chief of which was the fundame~tal change in the consti- tution which would interpret !rubor Larry Clinton Selected To Head New Collegiate Swing Fraternity ~ V ID YUNICH such great acelalm at the Yale and By DA . Princeton Ptoms, at Harvat•d, at ~he It is a well known faet in \swing Penn Ivy Ball, and v. M. r., wh1ch circles\ that Larry Clinton .stands was evidenced by the record-break- at the head of the cornposmg-ar- ing attendances at all of those ranging class of pr~sent-day song • bl has scratched Wl • 1 'ters. Thi'D was noticeably empha-. places. His ntm e pen . , ~ H out not only \The DIP?Y Doodle sized when recently College un~or (No 1 collegiate swmg song), chose Master Clinton to head ~ts . \Satan Takes a Holiday,\ and newly initiated Swing Fratermty \Study in Br<lwn,\ but has made made up of such bands as, Benny' him the ace in the hole for many: Goodman's, Tomm:,y Dorsey s, Bob leaders, namely, Glen Gray and Crosby's, and Jimmy Dorsey's, an.d· Tommy D~rsey. Down Beat calls for which he will' arrange thei~ ·Clinton \the Important force be- new theme song \College .Humor. hind swimg\' beca:use, B;fter all, no When Clinton mak.~s hl~ Unl.on· band· is greater than Its arrange-. debut on May 13, he Will bn,ng with him a \style of swing\ whiCh won ments. Melchior Cives Pictures To Members of Glee Club The members of the Glee Club received a very pleasant sur·prise at the weekly Jehear- sal Wednesday afternoon when Elmer T. Johnson, manage1· of the club, gave each member a personally autographed picture of Lauritz Melchoir, recently made honorary member of the organization. Mr. Melchoir, fa- mous Wagnerian ten01·, appear- ed 1ecently on the campus in a concet t dedicatetl to Mt·s. Wal- ter C. Baker. T'he photogtaphs bore the nar:ne of the individual members of the club and the words: \Best wishes from Lauritz Mel- chior.\ Mr. Melchior and his chUl'ill- ing wife, \KleinchE>P. will soon sail for Eurcye, Mr. Melchior having completed a very suc- cessful season at the Metropoli- tan Ope:a House in New York City. Langmuir To Speak To Chemistry Group College De I ega t e s Attend First Annual Union Colloqium Representatives from s e v e r a I prominent eastern colleges and um- versities will invade the Union Col- lege campus today to attend the first annual chemistry colloquium to be :iiponsored by the chemistry club this weekend. With Dr. Irving Langmuir as the principle speaker, the Union Chem- istly Club has arranged an inter- esting program schedule for its first colloquium. Dr. Langmuir will ad- dress the delegates on \Molecular Films\ during a meeting tonight which is to follow dinner at Hale House. The program for Friday aft\ ernoon, following registration at the Chemistry Laborato1y, Includes a special demonstration at the Gen- eral Electt·ic Company or an in- spection trip to the American Loco- motive Works and a research col• loquium at the General Electric Company. Students to Speal>. On Saturday morning the repi e- sentatives will listen to student pa- pers of both Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and Union, ·In the follow- ing order, Arthur Santora, Union '38, will read a paper on \Influ- ence of Anions and Cations on Viscosity of Silicic Acid Gels.\ Mat- them W. Wilson, Union '38, will read one on \Hydrolysis of Ethyl Silicate.\ Edward D. Homiller, R. P. I. '38, will give a paper on \Manufacture of Chloroprene,\ and George W. Gross, R. P. I. '28, will finish the readings with a paper on \Application o.f High Frequency Dispersion Methods to the Deter- mination of Structures in Resins.\ A round table discussion, led· by Professot· Edward S. C, Smith and Dr. Egbert Bacon of Union and Dr, Davison, of R. P. I., is scheduled for Saturday- afternoon. ----·0·---- Wold Add1·esses Astro11omei·s Dr. Peter I. Wold addressed the Schenectady Astronomy C.lub on Monday evening, April 18, at t]]e Physics Laborato1y. The subject of the address was \Interference Phe- nomena in Light and the Measure- ment of the Velocity of Light.\ fort and thus eliminate poverty is the reason \Why I Like America,\ Granville Hick.s said last night in an address before the International Relations Club in the Old Chapel. Mr. Hicks said he believed that in time the uncontented peo- ple will establish, through Com- munism an \economic system which ~ill provide the material things of life abundantly for all, bolstering this faith by figures which show that the United States could provide each family in the country with an adequate income if products were fairly distributed. He added that because \there are 95 or 96'k of the people who aren't getting all they could ... it is ~o tbeir ... interest . , . to get rid of our present system and get a system of abundance.\ American Standards Low A large nurc.ber of Americans are living on extremely low standa~ds, according to statistics on housmg and general living con!ditions and those figures of a study made dur- ing the nineteen-twenty boom years, cited the speaker. Mr. Hicks pointed out that relief standards all over the country are ridiculously low, citing common ex- amples where the food allowance for a family was but $6 a month. \How can I like America after all this?\ queried Mr. Hicks. \I de- cided I did like America despite all this misery, want, and injus- tice because all this doesn't have to be-we can get rid of it,\ he said, opining that Communism was the cure-an of our economic evils. Believing that capitalism is soon to go and urging that we adopt the Communistic doctrine instead, Mr. Hicks left a final word of wm ning to his hearers: \Don't ignore the problem be- cause it's not only the problem of the few thousand on relief in Sche- nectady at preeent. It's also your problem because some of these peo- ple had a college education, too.\ ----o--- Hislop is Appointed Harvard Counsellor Codman Hislop, '31, instructm· in English, has received an appoint- ment as Counsellor in Extra-cur- ricular Reading in American His- tory . at Harvard University for next year, President Dixon Ryan Fox announced today. Mr. Hislop is one of seven such counsellors which Harvard recently appointed for as- signment to its residence houses. He will be resident at Leverett House. Mr. Hislop is receiving a year's leave of absence to accept the appointment. This new position at Harvard was created to stimulate the in- terest of the student specializing in other fields in the study of the development of the Amel'ican na- tion. The counsellors will work through the creation of reading groups or discussion groups and will be available for advice. Much of his time may be devoted to study and reseat·ch bf his own. Mr. Hislop expects to pwsue graduate studies to complete his preparation for the doctorate de- gree in American civilization, After his graduation from Union, he was instructor In English at the Pingry School for a year, then studied at Columbia University for two years, receiving his Master of Arts de- gree in 1934. He returned as assist- ant to the Secretary, Dr. ·waldron, for a year, after which he was appointed Instructor in English, a post he has held for the last two years, He plana to return in 1939 as a member of th!) faculty in English Liteni.ture. He is author of \Albany: butch, English, and American,\ a popular history of the state capitol. He Is a· native of Glenridge; N, J., and prepared for Union College at Pingry School, N. J. Walter, Paffrath, Stevenson, Duchscherer, Malone, Rathbun, Baning•er and Stewart Are Chosen 1\fembers of Honorary Chtb Eight Juniors have been elected to Hale Club, Daniel. R. Weeks, secretary, annoanced today. An :h~nora.l'Y org~mza­ tion, election to membership is considered oue of the htghest disintctions to be had, election being dete:nnined solely on the basis of whether t11.e man gives proini&e of being an interesting member. Hale Club includes. both faculty and students in it.s membersllip. -----------------0• Robert C. Walter, Jr., of Detrott, Student Body Will Jl ote On Constitution Tuesday President Winterton Day of the Student Council requests that all students attend daily assembly Tuesday as the new functional c-onstitution will be submitted to the student J:Jody for ratification. Since a si01ple majority of those present. is sufficient to pass the constitu- tion it is important tha.\ a large number vote ~n the measure. The constitution will be pre- sentedl for ratification in the same .form in which it was ac- cepted. by the student co\l.llcil, Since the studen.t ·body n:J.eet- ings held to consider the con- stitution failed to draw any great number of students and because it was impossible to bring the mea:lure to a vote on accoun.t of the heated; de- bate on the question of open nominations Day decided. to present the document for ap- proval in daily assembly. Municipal League To Meet On Campus Will Discuss Constitutional Program in Meeting:s At Hale House Thursday, April 21 - The New York State Committee of the Na- tional Municipal League will be on the Union College campus this week-end to consider and adopt a constitutional program for th.e rec- ommendation to the Constitt;ttional Convention, it was announced today by President Dixon Ryan Fos:, The members of the comntittee are expected on Friday and will assemble at Old Chapel at 1 p. m. before dining at Hale House a.nd at- tending a meeting h1 the C..Ol,mcil room of the Schenectady City- Hall. Friday evening's dinne1· at Hale HoUBe will be foilowed by speeches by United States Senator Robert F. Wagner, Frank C. Moore, Secretary of the Slate Association of Towns and Dr. William E. Mosher, direc- tor of the School of Citizensbip at !'lyracuse University. Senator Wag- ner is second vice-president presi- dent of the Constitutional Conven- tion and Mr. Moore is a deleg:ate to the Convention and a member of the Constitutional Convention Com- mittee. BreaJdast Sessions Following the Friday sessiol'ls and lectures of the evening meeting, will be breakfast committee meet- ings on Saturday morning at the college. From 9:30 until 12, the members of the committee will meet in the Old Chapel after whicn din- ner will ·be served in Hale H~use. There is a wide number of sub- jects to be considered at the con- ference including, the legislature, the executive, the judiciary. mu- nicipal horne rule, public fin:ances, elections, housing and planning, methods of amending the constitu- tion and a method of submitting the convention's proposals. The meeting will adjourn on Saturday, April 23. ----01--- Pound On Campus Arthur Pound, Honorary Fellow in Social Studies, is taking u:p resi- dence on the campus today a:.nd to- morrow. He addressed Dr. John- son's classes today f.rom 10.:20 to 12:15 p. m. IllllXlediately folloVIing a· luncheon was served In Hale House at the close of which a discussion was held. Benjamin Rat hhun, Jr., Elmira, Theopbilus Douglas Olena Steven- son, Brook)y-n, John M. Malone, Schenectady, Loa H. Barrmger, Charleston, ·W, Va., Leslie R. Paff- rath New Yoik City, Averill T. Ste,.;art, Schen.ectady, and Philip Duch.scherer, Koenrnox·e, are the new members. Hale Club had its ot'igin In the old English Chtb, founded by Dr. Edward Everett .Hale, Jr., in 1n0 for the purpose of getting together a group of .p~ople intereste~ in wt·iting and hearing papers written by fellow ~ncoobers. The original members were Ilr _ Hale, Stanley P Cha.se, Dr. },!lorton C. Stewart, Dr Ch1cl'les N. Wa.ldJ:>on, and the late Dr, John N. Vedcie!'. No definite requirements exist for membershilP to the club, but membership is considered a decided honor. In 1932 after the death of Dr. Hale the clul> was reorganized under the spon.sorship of Dr. Wal dron. Under 'the name of Hale Club it meets every three weeks at the homes of its mem.bcrs or in frater nity houses, It is govemed by an executive coml!Litlee of two faculty members and a:ne student. Have :M1»o11y- Activities Walter is manag;ing editor of The Concordlensis and was recently elected Editor-in-Chief of the Fresh man year boD k, A member of the Philomathean. Soc.iety, Walter has also played :rni:nor roles with the Mountebanks. He is affiliated with Psi Upsilon. Rathbun Is a member of the Prom Committe-e, has been a mem ber of the Stu-dent CoulJ.cil, plays varsity tennis, wl'ites sports news for the Schenec~ady Union-Star and was formerly a nernber of The Con cordiensis .staff. He is at pre,;ent drama critic for The Concordien sis and has cont.ributed to the Idol being also a 10ember of the Ido board. Stevenson is E:ditor-in-Chief of the '39 Garnet, a member of the Publications Board and has been a member of the I:dol Board to which magazine he has contributed sev era! articles and cartoons. He is a member of the Executive Commit tee of the Mountebanks. Malone is :movie critic for The Concordiensis and was recently awarded a Concordiensis Key. He is a member of the Idol Board and has played rol-es in \Coriolanus' and '\Waiting for Lefty.\ Lon H. Ba..rringer is the newly elected Editor-In-Chief of the Idol ( Oontin ue<l on Page 4) ---o---- A.I.E.E. Elects Merchant; Mcintosh Pdze Winnel' A very important meeting of the Union College Chapter of the American Societ.y of :E;lectrical En- gineers was held Wednesday eve ning, April 20, in the Electrical Engineering Eu ilding. Officers for the coming yea:.:· were elected and three papers, competing in prizs competition, wet\c read. R. Merchant, ':38, was elected chairman for the corning year. C. E. Cambell, '40, and C. W. White, '39, were electeii vice-chairman and sect·etary, respeeti vely. 'I'. Burke, '39, was elect€d treasurer. Ctornwell M:cintosh, '38, won first prize in the pa:peJ:> camp eti tion. Rober M. Burg;ess and Joseph T. Bradbury, aLso senJor s, tied for sec- ond honors. T1le prizes were m cash. The paper.s will be read again at a convention of the Society to be held in Leno:x, Mass., sometime in the early part CJf :May, The judges of the pape1·s 1-rere Dr. J, J. Smif.n, Mr. G. E. Chambers, :M:r, R. ::-1'. Slinge1·, and Mx. Kenneth Mathes, of the General E:lectric, ·and Pro- fessors R. A. Hall, F. ~'il. Gravs·r, and R. W. Abb-ot, all of the Union College faculty,

Page Two . -. tttt5t5 FOUMDED lll77 \1!1 Causa Ptrsa Paro·Je 11 ssai\ 1937 Member 1938 J:\ssociated Colle6iate Press DW1bubleol 'rHE CONCORIHENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 1938 commendation for giving the college a dance The Cider Mill Culls From the Press featul'ing a \big name\ band at popular The Healthy Animal We diverge from our avowed pur- . Amatory Serentlade pose to chronicle the spectacular, prices. This is the first time in recent years love hm! I love her! Dear Lulu ·the bizaa·e, the whimsical for a tl ·la·t a. Junl.Ol' Pr·o1n Comn· Jittee has had th~: ' moment to take a glance at the La!Ue·. Things To Fill A Column With: ·constitutional Convention now in h . Jove her q,uite madly, and she 1· h n courage to try such a:n experiment. If t lS loves me too!- The two po lcemen w 0 were see session at Albany. A wide 1·ang-e entering the Fox I esidence. last of conflicting doctrine will have to plan is to he continued iH the future, it is Dear little Lulubelle, week were o~tlY hying to nail Prexy be synthesized not without hitte!\' -M.Y hUla-hula belle; f t ·b t' t the Reti~e U ·p to tl1·e stLJ-:leJc·t bod.}' to Q'l've the Co111- or a con II u !On ·o · · •· - ness during the next four months Ill ·• _ Love!\ >.~ntl lw;ciou:;, I'm lunvi·ng fur t F d Bob K. 1 ·Ime 1 · was a!· ' \ -- men un · · · - at this conclave which is drawing mit tee its full support. you. most cornered by Godfcey the the attention of the keenest :politi- . Cl' t th . ·Eader tone of the Skidmore cops) cal talent the state has to offer. .In bringing· Larry · Hl G>n t0 · e campus, But cut·ses! Oh Pshaw! what a vile ·last .saturday night. Bob was driv- And tile final document which will I P C 'tt . . . th 11 'llisappointment! . d h' . h' otli'ght !'n t le '· l'Onl Omlnl ee IS O'JVln·g e ·eo· ege mg aroun s mmg Is sp · b~ a~eepted or r•eJ'ect<>d· by tile · '· · · \ · · · Fo1· Lulubelle's .paw i<o a !ly in the th D · d N t · a· 1 does v ~ \ e o1:m wm ows. ' o m v n el'ect()rate this fall will be a Jand- . the opportunity to hear a comparatively ointment- the college boast that there arc ma 1 ,k pointing the way political d '] . . Go,h,. how I hate ,·ou, oh Luuis u · e • eve 1 y ] 1 'ne of en d \young\ band that is stea 1 y :gmrung popu- \ mon m n m · - thought and in particular erne- CoDeeide D&st REPR~SENTED F'OR ·N:ATIONA.L ADVERTISING! BY NationaiAdvertisingService, Inc. College Pub/isl>ers ~epresentatlve 4201MAOISON AVE. NEW YORK, N. Y. CIIICAaC. • BOSTON • LOS ANGEL£$ • S.U~ ERANC:ISCO Larue, . deavor ... Burges Johnson's week-: Cl'atic theory is tending not only ·in laritv. Clinton has nJayed with tremendous Would that you'<.l vanish in distant end g-uest, an eldetly lady, ;;pent tlte state but in the nation as well. ' 1:' · Peru! h · t Success a.t ·Jarg·e col'leg·e dances ·th·l·s yea1· a'11d· · almost half an our trymg 0 con- Alr .. eady it is.e.videlit a strong bat- You'\\ callous with malice, you rc · = b F th t h ·h ld t vmce _._-,er · ox a e s ou ry tie is In the offing betwe.en the Re- 't · I t \- · t th t U · 'I·l' · · .silly and· pimply d t d d · d cult!' 1 IS amos a cer ~am Y · a lliGn W•l J GlH to un ers an goo mus1c an - publicans leaning- toward the \fun- And a snake in the grass, sir, quite· t · t' f » ·t we 'rile ·offil'ial newsi>aPl'l\ ,f t11e students of Union College. Publishell Tu~sday aral Fridays through~ out the college y~ar, exc~!Jl during Christmas ami Hpriug; rc<...'€~::0~~. , va e an apprema 10n a. 1 · aarnental\ American rights versus in singing C!:inton S paeans. .purely and simply- 'trust Herb will do something about the Democrats who are expounding · C · t h 1 'd tl For \N'o!\ you l·emai·ked, in a tone fill' th' 'd · h' l\f One T ':e JuniOl' Prom omnut ee as . a1 ' 1e 1ng · •s Vol m · ls 1 e · · · social responsibility· and legislation H far from bland, t d .. t' f th t o Pulllkalion Office. The Gazelle Pre~s. 334 Stale St., Se!hene,·tady, X Y., Telephone 4-1141 sen ence · escr1p 1011 o e con r - to carry it into effect. foundations. 1t is up t('} us to add the finish· When I tearfully begged you .fOl versy ·over the new constitution: senator Robert Wagner .signalled LulubeHe's hand. M th M k d J h · ing· touches by giving the dance our fuH co- at· ew, a 1 · · an ° n are m the Democratic keynote in his - Etttet·ell frl the Scltcnectady Post Office as ~ecund Claos ~!ail Matter fav()t• of it, but Luke is not · · · speech when he said \that nothing :.opel•l.ltion. Here's to the best PrGrn eve1•1 Oil, Mr. Lame Those two Colgate fellows who in the constitution shall deny to Is a noted .tree surgeon.; t th d b b h' ks t . sen ree ozen a Y c rc o the various agencies ample pow&x, Subscription price Five tents a copy; $3.00 a year·: dclive•·etl auywhcre in the Unite<.l Stateo. E:di toriul' Room~. Silliman Hall, Union College Cnm~u:;, Tclwhone, Schenectad[!_ 4:...-.::...0...;13:..:3 __ Senior Board Frederick 'W. Hequernbourg ..... Editor-in-Chief l':si Up,;ilon House-4·3710 Robert C. Walter, Jr ........... Managing Editor l'\i Up:;ilun House--4-8710 Rubert A. Saaf .................... News Edit at L 133 l'arkwuull Bll·d.-4-6182 H. Wyman Hitchcock .............. Copy Editor ORCHIDS Lust night in the Old Chapel from two to three hundred people, the majority of them civic-minded Schenectady resideHts, assem- bled to hear several ](}cal group repl:esenta- tives present their views on the Constitu- tional Convention, now in session in Albany, and their suggestion to the delegates there ! asse1nbled. Delta Up:;iluu Hou:;e-4-7922 Jerome Smith ..................... Sports Editor Kappa ;>;u liou,e-4-7331 John H. Gi.lmour ............. Business Manager Dd ta C!>>llUll lluu:;e--4-7922 Marvin M. Miller ... Aswclate Business Manager Kappa :\u Hou:se-4-7331 Alan C. Wr.ana ............• Circulation Manager Kappa :\u llouse-4-7331 JW!ior Board C. Hu,;sel i De) ..J Christophel .'II. Fahy Sophoru()re Board George L. Ped< Larry Pelletti<:r !'au! Becker-, '41, Edwin A. Fitz, Jr., '40, Donald' Haigh, '41, .>ohn Lewis, '11, Kenneth .llacKenzie, '41, John Phili~s '41, Mort,mer Robins, '41, Hobert Schui- Uerg, •41, lJ:t~lutr Schwartz, '41, James E. Twiuing, '41. What occurred there can ·be leamed by reading othet· columns in this paper, hut the point to be mentioned here is that a worthy innovation in Union's relation with the City of Schenectady has been intwduced. Fot· the first time in the College's history, the offi- cials have taken an active inte1·est in local civic affairs. Union College has taken a long step which takes them outside of the con- fines of the college gates; our influence is Issue Edi to1:·. becoming city-wide, instead of being con- . . . •.• Christopher 1\L Fahy fined solely to the campus. Assistants The plan to hold such a \Town Hall\ was L. Schwartz J. Twining Friday, April 22, 1938 M. Collins thought of by three members of the College faculty who formed a committee to bring this worthwhile meeting about. The men to GENTL&MEN OF UNION COLLEGE President Fox has frequently stated that one of the most important things a college can do fol' its students is to make them gen- tlemen. Offhand it would seem that Uni<Jn College has failed miserably in this respect, if the college were to be judged by the tm- cou th an tic::s of its unde1·g-raduates in daily assembly. Webster'~ New International Dietionarr defint-~ a. g-~n Ueman a:; \a well-bred man of fine feeling·s, e~p.ecially one of good char- acteJ', ntised above the vulgar by education, hal)it:::;, and social e8tee111.\ 'Csing this defin~ ition as a measu1·ing stick, it can be said tl1a t educat..ion has not ~.>ven touched ~t ma- jol'i ty of lJnion students, let alone lift lhem above the depths of vulg-arity. Eadl .w:ar prominent men, who ha\·e traveled e~tensively, ~tddress the student body in daily assembiy. As these men have been intimately a.cquainted with other col- leg·es, it is only natural that they sholfld draw compa:.risons. It always seems that our knowledge ~md practice of etiquette reacl1es its lowest ebb at these critical periods, when we are virtt~ally on trial. Confusion seems to I'eig'll suprnne! Students stroll leisurely to their pluces several minutes late, the speaker vainly <!ompetes against a steady undertone of :student babble, while others completely ignore the l ecture1· to 1·ead their daily ma.il. Can it he that we do not know any better?' Unfortunately this is not a very plausible excuse foTour ungentlemanly habits. Either we m·e ca1·eless or we have no shame. What- ever the cause may l.Je, it is necessary for us io reform jf Union is to 1·etain the high esteem it n<>w enjoys. Need we say more? be commended for this noteworthy deed are= Committee Chairman Dr. Vernon A. O'Rom·ke, D1·. Douglas W. Campbell, and Mr. Joseph Rotundo. The Concordiensis hereby congl'atulates these men for their noble execution of this idea; we sincerely hope that future \Town Halls\ will be undertaken by the Union fac- ulty and executed as efficiently a.s last nig·ht's affair. Previously \pep\ rallies and l'iotous pa- rades were the means of placing Union be- fm·e the eyes of local residents, but fortun- ately a new order has been inaugurated. It is refl'e:::;hing to :::;ee that ,t:n ion lm:::; at last sponsored a program which vroves that the college campus i.s not an academic vacuum removed from the life of the com- munity in which it exists. This is highly COilllllelldaule - a::; a ueginniug. Let'.:; see more of it! G. 'L. P. MOTION To begin with, we haven't seen Dol'Dlhy Lamom in The ,JungLe Pl'incess and we haven't seen Buster C1abbe in Why I Have Been a Succ!'SS, That leaves the current Proctor's program up to you. FGr once you can see a show, secure in the kno.wledge t~at we W()n't spoil your enjoyment of it in retrospect by pl·Intlng vile remarks about it. This situation gives us a chance to do something we have wanted to do for a long, long while. There are lots of people in the mGvies who appear often, l:mt only as featured, or maybe \bit players. Very seldmn does one of them get a bi eak. And yet, in- variably they handle their various .roles as capably as, if not more so than, the S·tars. Well, we've felt for some time that an enterprising movie magazine could attract readers with an article devoted to them ... an article with· pictures, in order .that the familiar faces could be identified with their respec- tive names. None of them has dGne it yet, so we'll have to start the ball rolling ourself. In place of pictures we'll have to offer crude descriptions. Irving Bacon. b·ving is the tall, stl•ing-beanish type. Ee plays anything from chauffeur to gas-sta· tion attendant to hamburger salesma.~l. The last time we saw him he played a chauffeur in a two-bit picture starring Louis Hayward. Irving; has. a ,;,ry voice, a perfect dead-pan manner, and co-uld do great things as a hen-pecked husband, Wal'd :Bond. Ward is a bit more familiar than OUR JU:NTOR PIROM Irving because his assignments are fatter. H:e's tall The 1938 Union Colle2'e social season will and rugged; his tn()St recent roles were the heavy- ~ welg.ht c.hampion in the latest MJ·. Moto feature, L>e broug-ht to an appropriate climax with • and tile steward in the Bobby Breen picture, Ward can be convincing in dramatic parts; but his forte, the annual .Junior Prom on May 13. The two we thinlt, is comedy. \All-College dances and the Interfraternity Jack: Carson played the photographet· with Victor MoGre in This M1U'l'iage Business. He's best~ identi- Ball were distinct finan-cial and social sue~ fled by his grlmaces-tllle delayed recognition of a cesses; bu t.ad vance notices indicate that the dirty crack, etc. He isn't as good as the two men- tioned above him, but he ileflnitely has talent. Prom will €Ven \top\ these gala events. This could go on forever, and maybe it will if we The Prom Committee deserves especial run out of space again. J.M. WJmn love starts to bm•geon Skidmore for Easter should be able, within the limits of financial sta- Re !mows what to do: f · 't t h by all laws o rec1proc1 y, o cas bility, to wot•k for the physical, so- He cuts up .in pieces f f h' k d' in on a ew ree c 1c en mnei s clal, and economic welf.are of. the Resembling sturgeon t f 11 Sh !d Ch ld' nex · a· . . . e on eney cou slate.\ His Democratic colleagues Wi10e'er seeks the virgin t k bl' dd · d no rna e any pu 1c a resses · ur- have proposed slum clearances, :Miss Lulu LaruP. t h · b f h' Lulu, my darling, the one way to ·cope With your brat of a father is this: to elope! Now! and at p1 e~ent! So do not say nope, But climb down this ladder con- structed of rope. Oh, Lilliput lullaby, lovely Lulu This is tile .song that I'm singing to you: ing· his s ay · ere ecause o IS housing, liberalizing labor laws and contract with a Iecture bureau social welfare proposals. Opposing which stipulates that all public ap- this \radical\ program are the Re- pearance mu.ot be under their au- publicans who offer New Yot'k bee spices. . . press, speech, and enter·prise and Scoe>p: Miss Helen Deines of the nothing else more tangible. news bureau is to be married soon on ·either extreme are the few ... He's not a Union man ... we reactionaries like Senator Nunan extend. our ·best wishes. · who -wants to deprive the \subver- 81ddJnore Stuff: King's, across sive\ elements of the vote and a . from the Worden, is getting a man- few socialistic Lab'or party repre- sized rush Saturday nights ... A sentatives who wish to allow rnu- \Vic\ :makes the difference ... One nicipalities to engage in banking, Dartmouth Indian felt so deeply sale of milk, meat, bread, ice, and about parting with his date at cur- coal, and to allow states to operate Let us fly with velocity, Lulu my. fe>v that he cursed her violently. factories. love She 1eciprocated. This went on for In this fight between two philoso\ Frorn Pa's animosity, Lulu my love; some time before they called it a phies the Republican party which Let us run skippily, · ht w · h d b t r~ mg . . . eve ear a ou a ,ec- is in the majority will have to Eippily, dippily, tion taking vatious forms but make quite a few major conces- Half-way to Tripoli, guess the hills bring out the brute sions to the New Deal forces since Lulu my love! in a guy ... Why do the \Skids\ it is felt that the gubernato.ria.I * * * take their dates to that cemetery battle hinges on the outcome of Arbor Day Note a few blocks away? ... Jacques the Constitutio.nal duel. And th.e The New Nott Elm looks tremen- Renard, whose band is playing the respective candidates will rise or dously sickly, Skidmore Prom, has an important fall on platforms which contain And if it's not dead it is dying \rep\ in radio circles . . . We're the p()ints at issue, quite quickly- wondering what the Union bid lf~~·lij t•J~ 0 Johnson! 0 Fox! Is there naught count is ... Did Uncle Willy's rib- -ye can do bing make the young things see the To resuscitate Junioc, the Nott light? Elm II? PI'()nl Frevues ... The Prom Com- Or else the seniors of '38 mittee has obtained exclusive rights From Union's portals will g·raduate to lhe Prom decmations. This Without-the mere thought over- means they cannot be used at any -whelms!- other colleges or dances in the vi- STARTING SUNDAY! The slightest help from any elm! cirrity. They are the same settings used by Princeton fm· their Prom. H. M. S. Plans are under way to have Larry Clinton's Union medley number grooved on the ·recording machine for future Union jitterbugs . . . Direct from its $2.00 rtm ••. Now at Reg- ular Prices. ---0--- HARLEM HOP Darkness on the Delta! That will be the theme song Saturday night, April 30, at the Delta Upsilon House when temporary colored folk will swing and sway to the music of Charlie Miller and his Jungle- land band, featuring Audrey John- son. The \H~1lcm Hop,\ as it is called, will f£>alutl' the same novelties as did .Ja8t yeat 's Pvent. EvNybody must be in blackface and old clot!Jes. The orchestra and enter- tainment will be colored taiPnl. And lastly, evmybody must get into the ~ph·i t of the ocra~ion. The extet ior of the \hot-spot\ will be illuminated in true Harlem fash.ion. Four flood lights of am be.r- orange and green will floo<.l the fr·on t of the hou.;e. A canopy illumi- nalPu with blue, rl'cl, green, an<.l yellow lights and ptcsidPd ovPr by a cu~(Jlt'J 'b<.:nuiUL:J Ut)v!iuan dlUJeU in srallPt cape will complete the outside color scheme·. The interior will be lighted by a conglomeration of v .:ll i -co lot ed lights clashing in a 1·iot of color in typical Negro fashion. Brothers' down·! Siste1s 1 Truck ·- ·---0---- IN THE MAIL I,UJ\:F, CLARIFIER To the Editor: on Contrary to the impression which ~eerns to ha vc been c1 eatecl by the rf'crnt puhlicaticn of th~ \Idol 1 am not and I have not been opposed to the nrw cond it uti on a.~ a \whole.•· A.< a ma!tet of fact. I wuuld like to see th~ new cons tit uti on accepted by tllr \tudent body with but one modification, namely, that tho p~es­ ent section concerned with secret nominations by tho council be striclten out and a section sub- stituted which would give the stu· dents the right to nominate by pe- tition, or else some compromise of these two points of view. Stanley Luke. FOUNDER'S DAY BROADCAST To the Editor: I am very ,glad to report to you that I hea.rd the Union College Founder's Day Broadcast on the 25th of this month. I am living in Braz:i!, Yo11 can't imagine how glad I was to hear the old college songs! It took: me back to the good old U.S. A. Sincerely yours, Paulo Rochas. Last Tuesday's ad in the Concordy set a precedent. It was the first time that a Prom Committee has ever advertised in the college pa- per. Pauline Pierce, who appears here tonight under the sponsorship of the lire fighting A. D.'s, is \some pumpkins\ . . . She has won the Naumberg piiz<'. Incidentally, this paved the way for he1· debut in the Town Hall of New Ymk last Feb- ruary. She h&l appeared on sev- eral Gccasions with the Jullia1d Ope1a Slchool and Chautauqua Op- era Company. She created the role of Peg vVoffingtun in \\!belt Stoe,;- sel's new opera \Garrick.'' Several times she has appeared on the SPaltest Ri8lng Musical Sta1 radio prog~am. A smooth brunette too Her appeal Iii'.< in hrr peio:unality nncl n.biJity to [>llt ht'l,.Cif UCIOS>! the footlights. And '\·until nrxt \\t'(·k, loP oWCel 1 nnd J(iJld and don't cat any wooden dog bi.8CUits. Stugr: Bustt.!J' Crabbe in Perso11 Acrt>en: Dorothy Lamour in \JUNGLE LOVE\ How many of these Questions can you Answer? 1. What is the horsepower of an ordinary electric clock motor? 2. When, where and what was tlle first officially scheduled ·radio broadcast? 3. How many pounds of coal are needed to produce a kilo- watt-hour of electricity today? 4. How fast do the electric elevators travel in Radio City, New York? S. Where and what is the largest all-electric-welded building in the world? · 6. What is the greatest advantage of alternating current over direct current? '1. Who invented the A. C. watt-hoU!\ mete£'? 8. What is Micarta? 9. How does the average cost of electricity today compare with 1913? 10. What cooling medium has been found superior to air for high-speed turbine-generators? ANSWERS WILL BE FOUND ON PAGE 4 Bas Van Lacro A dov this mo or the •ball anc mg the season noon. J cr·osse 1 m a n lege st neva, le b:l.D o·c .A-ltea its miti out, na uled: to •H.amiltc sylvam: rtavert• :basebal uvely, · Nc HOWE see ac the net pa1gn nere. 'I into V week 'f tended univer vid.e tl J::urlin! compel VVhil the De. Nelson regula! would it also that tt engage ing stf ruled sui.ff o Whil yesterc gaging the ye date Alumn poor c Capt Lawre Borde· expect on th will :pi maltet Hob the fi the G Thou~ con vir over ( other Faii E Wh been Ketz seasol were times event. has n squac of the been men· The beth the 1 meet ()n ' Bowi the s dashe Bo year in tl vetet temp injur at I• any Will Tb stror Joe the man whil help Bill gooc Tl well Day and the som ever deci hurc milE Tl Har Bot' feet to t Cap of 1 Do~ jurn pail put con Bo( con bes sho yea Te! dis1

ed pur- tacular, for a at the in 1·ang-e to hitter- months IJOliti- offer. ic:h will by the a 'land- polltical derno- only in well. bat- the Re- Hfun- versus in his nothing to pow&x, sta- so- of the and Re- fl·ee and few Nunan 'subver- and a repre- lllU- and operate philoso- whic.h to conces- since of the rise C>r contain in TIIE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 1938 Page Baseball, Tennis Contests Cancelled, Varsity Ten To Open ,Spring SeasQn. New Golf Coach Cox Named Coach Of Varsity Golf Robeit \Bob\ V. Cox, '27, who Lacrosse With Hobart Away Tomorrow A downpour of t•ain starting ea1ly this mornmg wasl:led out tne hopes or the Union college varsity base- Varsity Court 1:'eam · Has Shorter Slate,·l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ restricted . . • should the op- ponents staga a. belated rally, such spol'!smanship would de- feat itself • . • · . du1·ing his undergraduate days .at Union College won 16 out of 18 m- ' dividual matches, and who twice placed third In the National Illter- collegiate Golf championships, was officiaUy named today as \volun- teer golf coach\ to the Garnet links squad fot· this year. ,New Policy ln ~8~9 . ·ball and tennis teams of inaugurat- Un!C>n College's 1938-39 mg the 1\lllt:l Gamet Sprmg ::;ports basketball ·schedule lists a season at ,home tomor1·ow a!ter- 13 ga~nes, including nine home noon. All a result, the varsity Ia- te.sts and four road tilts, opening· c1·osse squad wrll usher in the year With the St. Lawrence gaille in m a match w1th the Hobart L:ol~ Alumni Gym on Decembet:· 14 and. lege stickmep. tomorrow at Ue- closing with the R. P. I. engage·· On severlll occasi'ons we went to bat .for students when we felt tlwt their interests we1·e being neg:lcetcd , , • and we in- tend .to follow the same path in the :fut.lll'e .•• however, once in a 1vltlle, when students ·themselves fall down on the job, we'd like to help them cor- ·rect bad Ilractices • • • neva, leaving tne campus tonight at me.nt at Troy on February 18, · b:l.tl o·ctock xor the tnp. Four new i,eams CDmposed One :noticeable tendency foi .A.lr.eady the varsity nine l:las had Butfal<l,. Swarthmore, Tufts Union stucients Js to try out for l ·ts JnJ.tt'al two dramond games wip· ea 'Steveas Tooh squads ·ha.ve ,_, 1 h h dd atu .. etic squad,; on y w en c ances out, navrng or1gina!ly •peen sched- a ed to next year's of being picked for the first team uled: to p1ay tne Co1gate outht at placing the Middlebury, . are very high ... should it appear ·H.amilton vvecmesday. Two l'enn- llavet'1'ord and' Columbia quintets.· during ]He-season training that sylvama colleges, Swarthmore and In .J~:eeping with a new p<Jlicy, the players have slight possibilities of rtavertord, were to have taced the varsity season has been shortened' being &r:nong the 03elect few, they :baseball and tennis teams, respec- by th~'ee weeks, thus eliminating. usually shy away on their own uvely, tomorrow. several long periods whi<Jh fo · . accord, via some alibi ... an ex- appeared between games. ' cellen t e:xax:nple is the status of the Netmen Hei'e Wednesday tion next year will be in var·sity bas<lball roster at ·the pres- However, both these teams will only two months and the :sBhedule. ent lime . , .barring any mishap, see action this Wednesday, with will contain one less game. the base'ball outfit should ju.ot man- the netmen opening the local cam- ':fhe schedule: Dec. 14, St. age to squeeze th 1oug-h the cam- paign in a match with Syracuse renee U, at Union; Dec. 1.7, · paign wiuh.. -its p1 esent nadir . . . nere. Tne ball players will JOurney son, a.t Union; Dec. 20, McGill, several co11eges of Union's magni- into Vexmont the middle ot the Unioll; Jan. 7, Buffalo, a.t Union; tude, about which we know, have at week 'for the first of the two ex- Jan. 1.1, JJrunilton, at Clln1on; Ja.n. !ea.st two full baseball teams. tended -road trips planned. The 14, Swartluno.re, at Union; .Jan, 17,. university ()f Vermont will pro- .Tufts,_ at Union; Jan. 21, Col9ate, vide the opposition Wednesday at at U!Uon; Feb. 3, N. Y. U.,. at J.lfew J:;urlington and Middlebury the. York; Feb, 3, Stevens Teall, at no- competition the next day. bokell; Feb. 10, R. P. 1. 1 • at Union; 'While the eligibility ruling from Feb. I5, C. C. N.Y., at Uruon; Feb. the Dean's Office left Coacl::\ \Duke\ 18, R. P. I., at Troy. Freshman Ten Defeated Nelson with the certainty that his regular intiel d for the varsity nine would not be affected as thought, it also showed him most assuxedly that the squad would play its away engagements with a crippled pitch- ing staff. Two varsity hurlers were x uled ineligible from the present staff of five. Union Prepared While the baseball team rested yesterday, the tennis squad was en- gaging in its first outdoor drill of the yeax·. Most of the practices to The R. P. I. varsity lacrosse team gained revenge :fo!' tlie defeats administered .by Union col- lege fre.shman stickmen last year when the Engineers upset the Garnet yearlings, 12 to 2, at Troy yesterday for theil' fo·urth ·defeat in. five games this year. Paul' Rieger tallied both goals· fox- the locals. date have taken place on the Alumni Gym fioor because of the poor conditions ·outside. Captain Joe Paul, Doug Blue, Art Lawrence and two newcomers, Al Borden and Mason Hutchins, are. expected to provide the strength on the attack. Ho.wie Thompson will play at center, but the defense makeup is uncertain. Hobart was upset by Union in the fit•st match last year, leaving the Genevans on edge for revenge. Though Hobart already has one convincing victory t() its credit, over Cornell, Union may spl'ing an- other surprise, ---o~-- Fair Season Predicted Fo1· Varsity Trackmen By William E. Endic(}tt While the varsity track team has been hit by graduation, Coach Bi.ll Ketz is looking forward to a fan season. The first official time trial,; were held last weekend with fair tlmes being cloclted in sever a! events. While the sophomore class has not added must strength to the squad, several promising mernbel s of the informal freshmau. team ,mve been able to provide the varsity men with keen competition. The sprints and quarter mile wili be the weakest running events for the Garnet this year. The first meet, scheduled with Colgate here on April 30, will probable find Bowie, Endicott, and Krull facing the starter in the 100 and 220-yarcl dashes. Bothwell and Spittle, both .first year men, turned in the best t1mes in the quarter mile. Tillar Shugg, vete1 an from last year's squad is temporarily incapacitated with leg injuries and will not participate in at least the first two meets. In any event, Bill Ladue- and Burke will run in the 440. Hayner, New Star The distance evenlll will find a stronger ax ray of men this yea!. Joe Annese will probably double m the 880 and mile. Fisher and Hoff- man will run with Joe in the 880, while Johnson and Melewicz will help him over the longer dt;tanc:e. Bill Hawkes has been turnmg m good times in the two mile event. The high and low hurdles are well reproesented by Captain Win Day, Grant Smith; Bill Derrick, and Bob Hayner. Hayner ha~ be~n the find of the year, turnmg m some of the best times in four events. In fact, Coach Ketz has not decided whether to run him in the hurdles, the 220; or the quarter· mile. T·he pole vaUlt is represented by Harry Myers and \Sh01·ty'' Miller. Both have been vaulting over 10 feet and should add valuable points to the final scores of all the meets. Captain Day will probably do most of the high jumping, with George Doyle the only veteran in the broad jump. Both jumps are Union's weak points in the field events. The shot put and discus throw have ~e~n considerably strengthened. Ernie Bodenstab, sophomore, has been consistently surpassing last year's. best results. The javelin throw should .be about the same as last year with Britten, .Annese and Teare throwing the spears a good distance. Copyright 1938, LIGGETT & MYERS TODII.CC\> Co, One solution we might ven- ture-vote awards to membel's of va.1'Si ty squads for three years, provided those members had not :fulfilled the regular re- qui.relUllmts .for varsity awards during; that period ••• while we are at -it, we ·should also wish to pr():pose a suggestion to the nat'l interoollegiate b a s e b a ll moguls • • . that coaches be pe1·mit:ted to substitute players in a basebaJJ. game as freely as they anlght do in a basketball or :football game ... mentors of the c:alil:lel' of ''Dulte\ :Nelson lNllo J.ilte to win ball tilts as loVell as afford the entit·e team the c.!:moce to participate, are Glenn Cunningham, the mile wizard, has :been in 37 indoor and 23 outdoor jogs since his sopho- mo!'e year at U of Kansas ... he's won 32, placed se<Jond four times and placed thild once in .the indoor class . . . outdoors he's captured 18 races, placed three times and showed twice . , . and seven in- door and four outdoor perform- ances in less than 4:10 ... ouch ... Elsewhe1·e ·on this page you will n(}tlce the basketball sched- ule for next year .•• Rochester is being dropped, NOT because of any breall in athletic rela- tions, but; because of a. conflict in dates • • , however, the Y el- lowjacl!ets alld Dutchmen will clash again in 1910, with a game January ~0 at Rochester and a contest -in Alumni Gym on Feb. 14 .. , Willy Shakespeare was a wise old duck . _ . these quotes from his masterpieces hint that he \knew\ his baseball ... they cannot sit at his baseball , . . ''they cannot sit at ease on the bench,\ from Romeo and Juliet • , . \now you strike like the blind man,\ from Much Ado About Nothing • , • \but I say,\ ex Macbeth , • , \he will steal, sir,\ de Macbeth . . . \let the world slide,\ from Taming of the Shrew • . . \what an arm he has,\ e Cor!iolanus , .• \upon such sacl'ifi.ces the Gods themselves throw incense,\ from King Lear , • , \thou can'st not hit it, hit •it, hit it,\ .from Love's Labor Lost __ • \I will go root,\ from Richard III , • • and \I will be short,\ from Hamlet • • • \B<lB\ COX lNTRAMURALS Softball Schedule Monday, April 25, 12:45 p. m.- Theta. Delta Chi vs. Beta Theta Pi. Alpha Delta Phi vs. Delta Upsilon. Tuesday, April 28, 12:45 p, m.- Phi Sigma Kappa vs. Lambda Chi Alpha. Sigma Chl vs. Kappa Alpha. Softball Results · Tuesday, April 19-Delta Upsilon won by for.Jeit from South College. Phi Sigma, 28; Sigma Chi, 2. Coach Cox yesterday met the squad of 16 candidates competing for the nine positions on the Val'sity team which plays seven matches this season. He has scheduled an in- tensive p!'actice slate designed to reduce the number to the nine J:Jest men ·by Saturday, April 3Q, when Union meets Mid<llebury in Vel- . mont for the season opcnel'. While in college Cox was defeat- ed lly only one man in ·dual com· petition, Lawrence Sovick of Syra- cuse turning him back twice, but Cox managing to conquer Sovick four times. Union College won the State Intercollegiate title once and was runnerup for the crown twice, while Cox was a member of the Garnet golf team. In the National championship, Union placed seventh In 1926 and fifth in 1927, while \Bob\ Cox was leading the Dutch- men. He was graduated in 1927'. Union's new mentor thinks he has four men who will break into the 70's this year. Though he refuses to divulge their names, there is no doubt but what Captain Doug Geer, who has been coaching the players until now in the absence of ex-Coach Phil Stanley, is among this select list. Wednesday, April 20 - Lambda Chi Alpha, 4; Kappa Sigma, 3. Sigma Phi, 16; Kappa Alpha, 4. Thursday, .April 21-Kappa Nu,· 20; Neutrals, 2. Phi Delta Theta- Chi Psi game postponed. Spring; Tennis, Horseshoes The 1irst round of each flight in Horsesll.oes must be completed on or before Wednesday, April 27. The rest of the squad is composed of John Gilmour, Arnold Gordon, Van Ladd, Robert Shepard and Charles Witham, seniors; David Bond, Robert Clark, Ellis Eisen- stein, Herb Grant and Wyman Hitchcock, juniors; and Foster Brown, Chris Cammack, Gilbert Kopf, Ben Lord, Leo Minkin and James Watson, sophomores. The first round of each flight in Spring Tennis must be completed on or before Saturday, April 30. All matches will be six-man meets except the two Middlebury clashes which will have four men playing. Chesterfield opens the season with more pleasure and gives millions of smokers the same play every day .. ~ • and you'll want to hear Paul Douglas broadcasting the scores and highlights of the games-Lefty Gomez, first guest star. It's always more pleasU1·ewitb Chesterfields ••• more plea· sure for listeners ••• more pleasure fol' smokers. Chesterfield's mild ripe tobac· cos-home- grown and arlJQ matic Turkish-and pure cigarette paper .. . the best ina gredients a cigarette can have • •. THEY SATISFY. ester ie . . !JON'// find MORE PLEASURE in Chesterfields mt1der better taste

Pag.e Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 1938 Professors Suppor(Genitett To Address Reviewer C?mments Aggressor Tarriff'.Sig·IRa Xi Induction On Sprzng Issue Caustically of Quarterly NOTICES The meeting wiH start at 7::30 p. m. All members are urged to ·attend. ~ ---------------------- AI S t\ B tt <By ROBER'£ A, 8AAF berly who says \No\. Neithei· one of Eleven so anc 1011 oyco 'Eig·ht New Associates to Heal'' The third, and app10pri&tely them could .sell us anything; both The Pt'e-M-edical S()ciety will hold There will 'i'>e a rneetin,g of the -;;;;;;;;;;;:;;:;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ Senior Class Monday moming at. r, 10 olcloclt in the Old Chapel. NEW YORK LAW SCHOOL Established 1891 RegistraTion Now Open On Japan, O'Connell Lecture on Reseat·ch green, Spring issue of the college faH to preo;ent any original argu- a meeting tn Ro()m 2, Washbum B 'll literary magazine appeared Wed-· ments on this timely subject. · Hall, A:prU .:26, 1928. Dr. Emerson Peace · I ;In Cosmic Rays nesday, Embellished with photo- Hemy Hartmann's \Pollution of. Kelly, of Alba;:rw Medical College, ____ gtaphs and several pleasing draw- the Muse\ is written in the Ha•rt-. will give an illustrated lectm·e on Eleven Union College professors With Dr. Ralph Bennett, of the. ings by Douglas Stevenson, it is mannesque style; the feathery touch Medica•! HlstoPy, have conferred and formulated a , Ma 8 sachtusett.:; Institute of Tech-· safe to say that this Id:o! is an ·for which he is known is there; his' :=======:::::=======; !JUblic text of resolution, in which . · 1 1 th · improvement over H.e two predeces- work is fresh and original. for 1938-39 t h c ,, h a v\ <.: u me t w t h 1 .e·e nol.ogy a:J tile prmctpa :;peater, ·' e sors of this year In three more is-· T\'o more stories, \Faded Lio-hts\ De' 1 \t\ift'r. 'Lunch Room ' Unron College Chapter of the So-· ' . . \ \' ll!i resolutions concerning the fore1gn . ciety of the Sigma Xi is planning, sues we can hope. fot· an entwely by James C~ Wade .and \Par1ing\ by' Clncl :rap ·Room ~\~t~~io~a 1 ~ 0 ~~,Y itngovi~: wYni\~i~ ! 0 hold it.s annual i~itiaHun ~neet-; pr_i~~~;~b~~ c~~!~t~efreshman, has ~a~'; t~~ ~f~e~t:~~~l~~s s~ 0 t ~~~~ We Serve Better Food Morning ·course, Tht·ee Yea:1:s Mtern0on and EvenJng Courses Four Years t·esolution, with the signatmes of mg next Monday mgltt, .Aprtl 25 • written the best story to appear himself ·in the \Idle Interval\.; his f~r Ee.tter Health the original signers, have b~;en sent m t~e Old Chapel.. . • · in the Ldol t:hi:; year. His \Free ·in theme is hackneyed with a denoue- HS:..12£l JAY ST. to President Roosevelt, Congre~:J- U Dt. ~~:lett, f~~ m_et 0 .;e~~~~~~ ~i Spirit\ is original and well-written, ment ending. that has been wot•ked,. OpjJ. :New City Hall All Courses Lead to Degree of LL. B. THE DWIGHT METHOD OF INSTRUCTION man O'Connell, Secretat y of State n~on ~ ege a a \' . · catching almost to pel'fection the· t 0 death. And much as we hate to ~;=;::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~~~~;;;;:;;=i Hull, and Congres:;man Crowther. Umon, wtll addre:;s the Soctety on. duU atmosphere of the middle-class discourage a Freshman, \Pazting\ · . 1 . th . 1 \Methods uf Measurement oof Cos-, k , h It . f'fectl've and 11 h 11 · In contmuance o err po tcy . R , I-I h b onducting WO! er s . orne. zs ·e is .pretty,-we ·, s a we say uno~rg- they have ~ent un.signed copies of mtc ays. e a~ een c · · · imag.inaUve · one could only wish ina!? Both \Parting\ and \Faded· the resolution to aH Union College research on cosmtc mys fo.r m~ny he had handled the ending a little Lights\ would delight Mark HcHin-. · < •ommiHed to the policy ·Of small dasses so that each student may r'e<'eive acle- CJUale personal attention at1d h1struction. yeats and 1 ecentl~·. m conJunctiOn i 1 .· 11 f 11 . · · 01 ·ganizatiun urging that these or- 'th . t' t f H· tvard and. more s n · u y. ,ger. gani~ations or their intlividual wt scren ts s rom ~ . . . · Mr. Frederick Calvin, Assistant Simmons' a1 ticle, although not . members sign and forwat•d them to other New. England. mstrtutwns, to the Director in Charae of Pub- especially appropriate for the Idol,;' the public officials uli cady named. made a 8 .P~C~al. study 1 ~ Ala~k~on-. lie Announcements fm the Mohawk would be acceptable if it were bet- The text or the resolution con- At the tnrtlatwn meetmg ? ~ Drama Festival, begin~ his article ter written. He crnploys the pro- tains o;ix ~taternents and three con- day, ihe eight ne~ aSBOCl~~es of wi.th the pt ovocative \If the occa-. vocative style to an excessive de- elusions. 1t touche:; in pad upon the chapter Will be mducte.d 111 the sian should pr,esent itself would you glee. the policy of undeclared war be- formal cer·emony of the society .. The Invite Boris Karloff to your home Three book reviews .complete the ing pursueu b;- aggre,;~ot natrons new. members, C~rl. B. Booth, Ben.- and ask him to spend the night?\ prose biH of fa1e; the best of the and upon the fact that these na- ]amrn Cohen. Wtllram J. Jacober' No si.r Mr Calvin we wouldn't three is the wDik of Lon Barringer, tions are using Ametican muintion,; Jr·., Willard L. Male, Clomwell Me- wa~t t~ spe~d the ~ight with Mr. who wou1d do better i.f he forgot to It mentions also that Pt·e\ident lnt 0 sh, Jr., Ralph S. Pea!'l;e, Arth~l · Karloff. Mr. Calvin discusses the use the \chatty style\ at the be-. Roosevelt in his Chicago speech has C. San tom and. John S. v~old,. W!H manipulations ()f Hollywood press ginning and end of his t eview. proposed a policy of concerted ac- be accepted Wlth tw~ a:ssoczates, agents and remtnisce.o of his ex- Maples account of the li.fe of Heine tion on the part of the democ1atic who were elected and r?-tttated last pel'iences with the stars. There are is well written but is not a critical peoples of the world to \quarantine fall. Rrchar? M. Kovartc and Mat- parts 1 am sure could be sold to review of Untermyer'.s work. Endi- · the agglessor:;.\ The leoolutions, in thew \V. Wtlson. . Silver Screen or Movie Miuor. cott's repo1t is carelessly done. brief, are that the signcro; favor The ann_uai drnner meetzng; of the Andrew Dry 1\ u r g h's ''Scottish This issue of the Idol boasts a. the President's policy, that they con- chap.ter Wlll be held on Ma3 4 • ac: \Varsity\ is written iB simple, di- poem by Robert P. Tri~tam Coff.in, demn the aggr essur nation:; ant! cot·dmg to the announce~cnt b~ rect easy style and is an interest- the PuJ.itze1· .Prize poet, who dedi-· ;;ubscribe to the Japanese boycott, Professor Edwa~-d S.C. Srnlth, pres- ing 'account of life at St. Andrews cates a poem, \Heidi to Dr. Wal-. and, lastly, that they enduroe the ident of tt:e UnJOn College Chapter University in Scotland. d1on. Marlin Depp and Henry M. O'Connell Peace Bill which oub- of the Society. Wallace F. Baker has probably Seider both conhibute commendable stantially strengthenci th<• al1t•ady been done an injustice. The editors efforts. Limericks by Wade are not existing Neutz·aJity Act. CALENDAR have \culled at random\ excerpts too smart, the Garis one being the The eleven professors who make Tonight from letters Baker wrote about his better of the two. up the original signer,; arP Dr. 6 . 30 p. m. _Constitutional Cele- Egyptian experiences and which he \Concordy Bonet·s\ fills the bill- George H. Danton, Dr. Molton C. bration. Tiinn<'r in Alumni probably never meant for publica- but there have been a lot of better Stewart, Dr. Vernon O'Rourke, Dr. Gymnasium, s P 0 n 8 0 red :by tion. Passages that would have been boners in the Concordy. N . .A. Bennetton, Dr. T C. We!ie1, Schenectady Bureau of Mu- good description are ruined by the P. S.-We also liked Wade's blind Dr. W. W. Bennett, D1. Frederick nicipal Research. Open to excessive use of American slang and man who remarks \You're the last H. Bronne1·, Dr. C. H. St ubing, Mr. public. repeated cliches. Baker catches a per·.son that I ever expected lo see;\ J. Rotundo, Dr. D. W. Campbell. Tomorrow train \in good shape\; Africa, heal- an·d Dr. Harold A Larrabee. 10 ,00 a. m. ··-Daily Assembly- lows, is \some continent\; the town -- -~ o----- · Speal 1 er, l\lr. Arthm· Pound, of Cairo is· \a corker,\ and in the Hale Club Selects Honora 1y Fellow in Social neatest trick of the year, he saw ::::::::::::::m:m::::::::::m~:::::::::::::::m:::::::::m::::::: S b Studie>', Memorial Chapel. women \with head-loads on foot\. Ne\· 'enior Meru ers 2:00 p.m. Ba.:;pball. Union vs. 'l'wo articles written on the sub- 1Conttnued from Page 1) has been a member of the StudPnt Council since hio; fr e:;hu~an ye~ou. and lm~ been Secretrny of the Stu- dent Body. He is al~o a member of the 1\1ountebank':; Executr ve CommittPe and i, a.ffiliHtPd \lith Sigma Chi. >lwatthmon on Alexander ject \Are F1aternities Worth It\ a1e Field. presented by Robert C. Denzler who 2:30 p. rn. Tennis, Union v;;. says \Yes\ and by Charles C. Wi· Haverford at Schenectady. Paffrath, having been a.:;:;ociHtcd principally with social service agen- cies on the camp~. b Pneoident of the College Christian A,;\ociation and b a nwmber of the American Student Union. He contributed re- cently to Idle Interval, publication of the Advanced Composition Cla:;s. He is a member of Alpha Delta Phi. Stewart is a member of the Inter- national Relations Club and i.,; the son of Dr. .Morton C. Stewart of the faculty. He is affiliated with the Sigma Phi fraternity. Duchschcrer is acrompan ist for I he Glee Club, has been a cheer leader for three year~. a letterman in val'sity basketball and baseball, a member of the Student Tax Com- mittee and is affiliated with P:<i Up~i!on. He was student head of the Fleshman Camp last year. 633 State St. Thru to Nott Terrace Su.nday 11:00 a. m.--Sunday Ser·vice- PnaC'h<'r. Dr. Percy Ram- rnerer, Provost, Avon Olds Farm>. Avon, Conn, Me- morial Chapel. ! :00 p m. Organ Recital-· Dr. E. A Tidma1 sh, Memorial Chapel. Tuesday 10:00 a. m.-Daily hooeJnbly-- Speaker, C. Terry Ross, '40, Mcmmial Chapel. For Hous<> linen Service PHONE 4-316o AMERICAN COAT. APRON & LAUNDRY COMPANY 1(}30 Ba~ rrett St. PHONE 6·345& CLOVERLAND CREAMERY FOR PROMPT SERVICE Phone 6·8104 919 State St. Schenectady Engraving Co. 147 J A v s r. ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORD lENS IS CAZETT E PRESS Printers SCOTTY'S SUPER-SERVICE Gas • Oil • Lubrication Radios • Batteries Tires - Accessories Cor. NOTT TERRACE and LIBERTY ST. PINE GROVE DAIRY, Inc. 118 S. FERRY ST. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. GUERRA PHARMACY DRUGS, PRESCRIPTIONS, SUNDRIES WE SERVE SANDWICHES AND LIGHT LUNCHES UNION COLLEGE STATIONERY 29c Phone 2-9419 600 Union St. cor. Barrett SAVE ON LAUNDRY by Convenient Railway Express Service Speed it home and back weekly by nation-wide Railway Express. Thousands of students in colleges throughout the country rely on this swift, safe, de- pendable service. Prompt pick-up and delivery, without extra charge, in all cities and principal towns. Be thrifty and wise- send it collect- and it can come back prepaid, if you wish. low, eco- nomical rates on laundry, baggage or parcels. For rush service telephone the nearest Railway Express office or arrange for regular coli dates. Cor. WALL & LIBERTY STS., 'PHONE 4-5612 DEPOT OFFICE: N. Y. C. STATION, PHONE 4-8512 SCHENECTADY, N. Y. XPRE'SS NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE TEl-iN IS Re~stl\u~g 6·br, :Serviee RACKETS. $1.49 THE''IIUB H7 State Street . Open Evenings For ftnther information address Registrar, New York Law Scbool, '63 Par}, Row, New York, 1\f. Y., or telephone, BEelrman: 3-2552. Buy ICE CREAM With Confidence STYLES for $5.00 FRO JOY · to STUDENTS <lr $J 2 ;00 FACUL l'Y\ a .pair Serving: Old Union foi 4-5 years · Family S~oe- Store-245 State St .. PATTON I HALL, Jncor.porafed ICE CREAM 1 'Tae horsepower of one type of electric clock motor is • eleven millionths H.P, A dynamometer made in the 'Westinghouse Research Dept. has accurately meas- 1lred and plotted this fact. a ~he.fi.:rst officially scheduled radio broadcast was that • .<Jf t:he Harding-Cox: presidential election returns, sent out: over Westinghouse Station KDKA, Pittsburgh, Pa.,onNov. 2,1920. 3. MO<!ern high·efficiency Westinghouse·eq~i~ped gener- ating stations produce a KWH of electrrcrty on 1 lb. of coaJ, base load. The national average for 193 7 was 1.43·lbs. In 1922 the figure was 2 .5; in 1927, l. 75; in f.932, 1.5. 4 Sorne of the Westinghouse elevators in Radio City, \ believed to be the fastest in the world, travel at the s.peed of 1400 ft. per second. 5. The largest all·electric-welded building. (ton.nage and floor snace) is the 12-story Central Engmeermg Labo- ratory- building of the Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co. at East Pittsburgh, Pa. 6 The g:reatest advantage of alternating current, as • r.:cogn.ized hy Geo. Westinghouse more than 50 years ago. is the facility with which its voltages C<>n be ste~ped up or down for various needs of transmission Ol' tLSe. 7,. ()liver B. Shallenberger, a yo.ung engineer wi~h .the Wes.tin.ghouse Electric Co., drscovered the prmctple in 1888 and developed the first A.C. watt -hour meter. It has been basically unchanged to this day. 8. 9. !0. Micarta is a laminated synthetic resin material, devel- oped by Westinghouse and having many desirable eLectrical and mechanical characteristics. It is used for insulation, bearings, bushings and many industrial purposes. as well as for decorative work of all kinds. Elect:ricity costs about % less today per KWH, on the national average, than it did in 1913. It is one of the fel'i/ commodities that has steadily decreased in cost dtuing these 25 years. Hyd:rogen has been found to be a better cooling mediurnthan air, and 10 out ofthe last 14large 2-pole 360~ r.J).m. generators use it. Westinghouse pioneer- itlg'led to this improvement. Watch for another interesting \Electrical Quiz\ in a coming is-sue of your college publication. Electricity is the greatest l>ing!e force in this modern age. Learn more about it -and about the companies, like Westinghouse, that pnt it to doing the world's work. Westingh<tuse Electric & Mfg. Co. Pittsburgh, Pa. Z511 Vol I LiJ At F<»m Th, the 1 a war< ing s1 has b cises. In qui FOUl ed thi Prize moly 1 award lege. 'J se11ted prize 1 is giv< sner, I 1862, ~ senior studiel A.no1 Schm·o the c~ tion t< submi· a bio: the st The I: ing of tion o award len ce cornpe :;ion. In a the pt will ~ These tablisl: to the who h ice tc Self-lr memb :ohown ing h the D Josep] who E duct. I Oth' den I submi jeet ~ partm forth essay eratm prizes ex cell in m1 rio us Pri: years the :;; menc< ex:cesJ .API the 1 held meeti of die ton l dent cussi< newl~ the C Th< polic~ and i woul< The discu class diplo: recor large ed pr Th· a ser ter I= prev< was Wy~ Fr• secrE on a E:ngl the Smal \Gee prep the 1

at 7::30 to ·Of Law New Z611 'Seniors Favor Large Diplomas Vol. LXI., N0. '50 ... • Advance tS Prom Sale Heavy UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, APRIL 26, 1938 PRICE FIVE CENTS ~========~~~================~========== Ligon to Deliver Address At Fifth Annual Prize Day ·Advance Sale for Prom Promises Record Crowd Tuesday, April 26-\A heavy advance sale of tickets indicates that attendance at this year's Prom may surpass all those of the past,\ said David L .. Yunich, '39, in a statement to 'l'he Con- cordiensis today. \The Junior class,\ his statement continues, \seems especially anxious to make this as eKclusive an affair as possible. Most of the tickets sold have gone to Juniors.\ Union To Be Host Scholastic L,eaders Named 'Jo Debate Groups . F· . . .C , . . . . : t· H· . . , . During Conference or ·Ommencemen · onors FltUl' New A wards Announced for Honor Exercises 'Eo Be Held in Chapel on 'Vednesday During Daily Assembly At>proximately 300 Delegates, Representing 38 Colleges, Expected on Fliday Achilles, Booth, Goldberg, .House, Jacober, MU110ff, Kovarich, Tt~ahman, Wiberly, and W.ilsort. Get Stage Appointments Ten seniors were named in the list of Stage Appoin tnaents for commencement 'exercises announ·ced today by Dea-n Charles F. Garis. Laurence Achilles, Carl Booth, Paul (;old- berg, Charle.s House, William Jacober, Richard 'Ko-varich, l\1elvin l\Iuroff, Carl Trahn1an, Charles Wiberley, and Mat- thew Wilson were the seniors chosen for this honor. The fifth annual Prize Day exercises win be held during the Daily Assembly period tomorrow, at which time 33 awards, fron1 24 prize funds, will be presented to outstand- ing students. Dr. Ernest M. Ligon, professor of Psychology, has beea chosen to deliver the principal address at the exer- cises. The subject of Dr. Ligon:'s address is to be \The Inquiring Mind.\ Meanwhi·le, as tickets ad- vanced from $5 to $6 according to schedule, a whisper·ing cam- paign .of \be.:lt Prom yet,\ in- augurated by the twentr-odd Union men who journeyed to Troy Ia.st Friday night to hear Larry Clinton's orchestt·a play, was said to be duing much to familiarize the campus with Clinton's excellent band. Union College will entertain ap- .pmxirnately 300 r·epresentatives of ~8 New Yot·k State universities and . coolleges Friday and Saturday when .it acts as host to the Sixth Annual New York State Intercollegiate Stu- dent Conference on Public Affairs under the auspices of the New York State Conference of Debate Coaches. Frederick J agel Four new prizes a1e to be award-<®•~--------------­ The convention will be a \mock\ ·. affai·r modeled after the state Con- : stitutional Convention now being ed this year. The Donald Coulter Prize in Debating, founded in mem- mo!y of Donald Coulter, '15, will ·be awarded to the best debater in col- lege. The EUas Peissncr Prize, p1 e- 1 se11ted by Sigma Phi, is also a new 1 prize this year. This prize of hooks is given in memory of Elias Peis- sner, professor at Union fwm 1851- 1863, and is to be awarded to the senior most pmficient in Germanic studies. Schurz Biology l'rize A.nother new pt'ize is the Carl Schurz Prize in Biology offe1ed by the Carl Schurz Memorial Founda- tion to the upper-class student who submits the best written report on a biological subject approved by the staff in the Field of Biology. The Division of Engineering Draw- ing of the Society for the Promo- tion of Engineering Education will award two certificates for eKcel- lence in drawing in the annual competition conducted by the divi- sion. In addition to these new awa1ds, the prizes given in previous years will also be presented tomorrow. These include the Bailey Prize es- tablished by Dr. Frank Bailey, '85, to the member of the senior class who has rendered the greatest serv- ice to Union College; the Kruesi Self-Imp1ovement Prize to that member of the senior class who has ;,;hown the most improvement dur- ing his four years at Union; and the Daggett Prize a warded by Miss Josephine Daggett to the senior who excells in character and con- duct. Ingraham English Award Other prizes Include the Van Or- den Prize for the freshman who submits the best essay on a sub- ject assigned by the English De- partment, and the Ingham Prize for the senior who presents the best essay on a subject in English Lit- erature or History. Many other prizes will be awarded to students excelling in the classic, in French, in music appreciation, and in va- rious engineering. subjects. Prize Day was originated five years ago when it was decided thaJt the awarding of prizes on Com- mencement Day made the exercises excessively long. 0·--- Seniors Vote to Return To Large-size Diplomas Approximately 70 men attended the meeting of the Senior Class held in Old Chapel yesterday. The meeting was called fo~ ~he pu.rpose of discussing class acbv1ty. Wmter- ton U. Day, president of the st.u- dent body, presided, and the dis- cussion was led by Robert Denzler, newly appointed representative of the Graduate Council. The class voted to continue the policy of establishing class dues, and it was decided that these dues would be three dollars per year. The matter of diplomas was also discussed. Last year's graduating class received small, leather-bound diplomas, but the seniors went on record as favoring a return to the larger diplomas which were award- ed previous to last year. .Prize. Day Speaker DR. ERNEST M. LIGON Students Approve New Government Functional Constitution Is Adopted After 8 Months Deliberation b.eld in Albany. Delegates will di- Dea ln.· 's Lt··.st Rat!• ng v-ide up into committees to discuss .ll .I.U the valious issues now be.fo1·e the S . Albany convention and will doubt- bOWS Slight Fall .. less submit resolutions offering their suggestions to them. To Give Concert Famed Metropolitan Tenor Presented by Local Musical Club S h · -L d ·F. h ' The topics to be discussed are: Op OIDOl es ' ea I es men. tax limitation, judicial reorganiza- B t B th Cl Frederick J agel, 'leading tenor of u 0 . asses Fall Uon, and legislative problems. The the Metropolitan Opera Association, • site for all official business will be In Scholarship . tlle Old Chapel, while the delegates will present a concert in Memorial --- will lodge at the Hotel Van Curler . Chapel on Thursday evening at 8:30. Both the fleshman and the sopho- with a few accommodations avail- The concert is to be under the more class declined slightly in able at the various fraternity house,; auspices of the Thursday Musical scholarship, according to the Dean's on the campus. Club. L . t · d f th th' d Mr. Jagel recently attracted na- IS 1ssue or e · n quarter. The delegates will register F1·1·- b t't d Th f · tiona! attention when he su s 1 ute e reshmen, with 47 members day at the student lounge in Hale t . f h for Giovanni Martinelli in the opera men ·wned or sc olastic attain- House f1om 9 o'clock in the mornine: 1 t d ~ \Aida.\ Martinelli, singing the ro e men . a ecrease of five from the until noon. The opening assembl\ d . · -' of Rademes, was stricken with in- prece 1ng quarter, fell ·behmd the will take place in Old Chapel at f h h h digestion in the midst of one o t e sop omores, w o placed 48 mem- 10:45 o'clock and at noon the pre- t b · th h arias and was unable to comple e· er.s m e onor group, a dec1ease Iiminary committee meetings will d f f th the performance. Jagel, who ha o one rom e mid-year report. be held. Following luncheon the f h been listening to a broadcast o t e Class of UHO delegates will be occupied with the opera at his home, rushed to the Haell~lur of Arts: Joseph .J. AtJIJe><'. rnain committee meetings. The Metropolitan in a taxi, and in Iess ~'l'lle~t Vf. Bo<lemtab, M<·rlin L. B1·ork- coaches will have a conference at myer, Quintin l'. Cole, Alexan•ler ll. than half an hour was singing be- Cornell,* Rol>et·t R. Eisner,' Hheldun J 3:30 p, m. and following the ban- fore a bewildered audience. Evans. Christopher ~1. ~·,-hr.• Ellwar<l quet in Hale House in the evening, Bmn in Brooklyn, he made his A. I<'ilz, Jr .. ~ Htnnley H. Gertz, Don- an informal dance will be held for debut at Livorno, the bilthplace of al<I ·c. Glenn, Peter Z. Grabioki, Clar<e the delegates and their guests, The \\'. Graves, Albert H. Halavin,* David final session will be held in Old Mascagni, singing in the opera G. Hayner, Paul C. Hayner, William \Boheme.\ Engagements in the ma- L. Johnson, :.\!arvin P. Lazrus.~ !o'ra11k Chapel at 9:30 a. m. Saturday. jar cities of Italy, Holland, and \'. Melewicz, George J. l\liller, Philip Charles B. Honikel, '38, president Spa 1 ·n followed, and during his first L. illitchill. Burton H. Olmstead, Law- f th U · Phil h S · renee \'. Pellet tier, Jr .. Leonard A. Per- 0 e nwn omat ean OClety, three years as a singer, he sang in less, Jacob R:o .. binowilz, Thomas H. vvill be in charge of registering all 194 performances of major roles. Ralston. :.Hat·vin Hosen, Edgar A. snn1I- the delegates. Famous for his interpretations of ma11, Harry G. Silleck, Jr.,• Hobert H. The purpose of the conferences, the great roles in Italian opera, the Simmone. Gccn·ge l\1. Stewart, \Villiam -which are held annually, is to give S\'v· 1 .T 1 tomshe 1 'e 1 H_ oeco H. Urbano, Edward H. experience to those interested in American tenor has also won. rec- ognition as a Wagnerian singer. He BS In Ch·il Engineering·:. Lev.i~ \\\. group discussions. The conference sings in several languages, his con- Ha11Bnb£rk.' discussions are intended to supple- B ~ In 1'1 t l 1 v 1 1 Ch 1 ce1t repertoire including Er.glish, ~ ·. ec r <\.a ... ng ncer ng: ar e\ ment or complement intercollegt'ate E 13rockner Donald P Campbell German, Italian, French, alld Span- Francis Dunigan, Jr., :charles H~ debating and to develop the stu- ish. Guiles. John A. Kilcoin, Jr., Alden F. dent members so that they will be On February 28, 1932, Mr. Jagel, :\lullins, George R Schall, Jr. able to promote group thinking. BS in Chemistry: Alfred H. C• ~e. E h d I t' h 1 for five seasons famous on the opera WaiTen ne!>orbn,• \Valter A. Fallon. ac ·e ega 1011 as se ected one stage and already · distinguished A new constitution for student .Tr., E•lwarcl R. Kane,• Sherman Vv. of the main topics mentioned above throughout the country for his con- d . Parry. and has investigated the situations certs as well as his dramatic worlt, govel'nment was adopted to ay m BS iu p·Jtysl<•s: Everett H. llafner.• in these fields, so that it will be made his New York debut. His fa- an election held in daily assembly Class of 19.U able to report on the subject in vorite opera is the \Manon Lescaut\ t d t th 1 - ax of Bachelor of Arts: Leland L. Beik. the respective committee meetings. by the s u en s as e c Im Adam F. Cir•insl<i, Tristt·am Coffin. of Puccini, as it wa.s wllile singing eight months' discussion and de- Jr., JosepJ1 Crl\tlano Albert A. Davis, 0 it that he met his wife. Leading III, William L. Jo'ord, Robert W. Fre- h · d J 1 liberation. One hundred ninety- lick. Boyd E. Golder. Ernest c. Grant. Student Speakers Active newspapers ave praise age as three of the 347 voting were in :l>fanual Gr·een, John D. Haigh, Wi!li'm an artist, a vocalist, and an irre- B. T. Hastings, George W. Hemstead, sistable personality. favor of adoption of the new con- !I, Robert S. Herman, John P. Lewis, • Three Union College students wiii ----10---- Th d t ro Leonard C. l\'la.clrenzie, Jr.,* Raymond stitution. e new acumen P - I<'. Male, Howard o. :.llott, Gordon 11. fill speaking engagements this vides for a Student Coun.cil of 4.0 Parker, John D. Phillips, Robert A. week, the Student Speakers' Bu- 'all 1 t d a Quinn, l\!ortimer Robins, John A. Husz- reau announced. On Saturday after- members, part1 Y e ec e on kowsld.\ Laslmr 8chwartz, Gordon .J. Students Confer With C. A. Harrell basis of \functional\ and propor-. Semerad, JIYlJe,\ G Sl:Iaw,• Ir·v!ng .J noon Leslie R. Paffrath, '39, will Shoor, James \IT. Smith, Hyman Sug[r- .address the third district meeting tiona! representation, as the gov- man,• l\lilton H. Sugarman, David V. <If the New York State Federation Students of state and local gov- . b d d such popular po Tiedeman, Alexander Turrhick, James of Women's Clubs in the Coblesk1'l! t t U · C 11 h h ermng o y, an . - K Twining, Jr., Morris \\'Pintmub. ernmen a n10n a ege w o ave litical devices as petition, referen- ns In Civil Engineering: John F. High School on the subject \Re- been studying the city-manager 11 Canlleld, Henry L. Crosby, Jt·.,• raul garding the Nations.\ fo1m of government for the past dum, and reca · v. Mara. Vilmar K. Bose, '39, will go to week were enabled to discuss some Adoption of the constitution BS In Ele~triml I·:nglneoriug: Cet•n Amsterdam on Thur.sday to addi'ess of the ideas they·· have gained with k th t · at 1 'on of a long E. Angell, Ja.-I< \Y. namer, John E th K' · mar s e hermmt f ·•~ d cat Greaney, Hicharu c. Griffin, RobeJ·t !. ·e twams Club of Amsterdam on an expert in that field last evening struggle on t e par o 1..., a vo es Reerl, Russell ! 4 Uphoff, Philip H. the subject ''The Scylla and Chary- at Union College. City Manager which began last September when Westlake. bdis of World Politics,\ and on Fri- Charles A. Hru:rell led the students Vilmar R. Bose, '38, drafted and BS In Cltcrnistl'y: Hobert \V. llobd• Y. day evening Alfred S'II'Yer, '41, will in a roundtable discussioll on presented to the previous Student Lnuis E. Owen. take his mchestra to the Schoharie \Council - Manager· Government In l f h t'tu B8 ill Pl!.ysics: Onrdon R Gnuld. * Council a Pan or sue a cons 1 - • Hanks In the tlrst ten in the class Central High School to play for Theory and Practice.\ tion. Following a long period of de- for third period. its annual dance. Mr. Harrell outlined the work of liberation the Council finally passed a city-manager, his relation to ad- the Constitution and presented it Clz·n-1-nn rtaptul>$1)Q rn11'.'(),ian Ar.mory ministration and to the council, and to the Student Body in March for (,v vi I c-~ .L • I .I some of the questions which must adoption. There it met considerable be met by the ma11ager in the day opposition from students desiring After Four Ro· ur IIJY.USl·cal Barrage to day operations of a mUllicipal \open nominations\ for the Student 1f'.l. j government. Council, As finally passed, howeyer, On Thursday, April 28, Mr. Albert it does not include \open nomma- By ALAN C. w:RANA H. Hall, Chief of the Bureau of Pub- tions\ but provides for nomination Larry Clinton conquered Troy last Clinton's music is completely ar- lie Service Training in the State of new members of the Council by Friday night by supplying his ranged in the same solid .style with Department of Education, will ad- the outgoing members. scintillating swing to a record which he improved the orchestra- dress this class on the work of the The sta.ge _appointees aFe those students, irrespective {)f th<l course in which tluy .a.re enrollEd~ wno have had. lhe highest scholastic standing for their college e.areer. The valed.ictOI'y .speaker is ehosen from this group of stage a).>pOiintees by a facalty committee and three others in this g-roup will deliver speeches in the Blatchford. Orator- ical Medal prize contest.. These honor students are the only senio:rs who are seated. on the chancel d!Lr- ing the Commencement exerc:ises. Aehilles Chosen H. Laurence .Achilles, <>f Sc:·henec· tady, a member of Sigma Fhi, is Secretary of the Student 'I:'IIK Com- mittee, and was also <>n th:e -va.xsity hockey squad. He is a metnber of the Social Studies C1ub, an.d w.as elected to Phi :Beta Kappa in. tlle fall electi<ms. A residen:t of Delmar, Carl B. Booth was· .elected to Sig!:lla. Xi in the most recent elections to that. society. Paul M. Goldberg, <>f Troy, a member of Kappa Nu fra:tecnity is a member of .the Social. Studies Club, and was a. representa..tive at the Model C'ouncil of Leag:ue of Na- tions. He bas been active in de- bating during 'his colleg.e career, and was a member of the Mounte- banks in his sophomore year-. Gold- berg, a member of Phi Beta :Kappa, is also a tneinber of the Interna- tional Relatio11s Club and the Gavel Club. JJ:ouso Named Charles H:. House, Jr., of Platts- burg alsC> one of the seven :seniors to be elected to Phi Beta :Kappa, is a member of the La.ll:lbda. Chi Alpha fraternity-. He was a stu- dent representative o:f the c~rnm.it­ tee to study- underclass courses in Social Studies. A member of Sigma ;zi, V'Viliiam J. Jacober, Jr., :from Bl-oomfield, N. J., was Assoeiate Editor of the 1938 Garnet_ Melvin I. Mumff, of Brooklyn, is (Continued on Pag~ itJ 1939 Sub-Freshmen Weekend Discussed Fl'aternity Men Suggest Otlt.er Business at Recent M:eeting At a meeting in Silliman Ball on. Friday, A.pri!Ui, the :frate::rnity rep- resentatives. set the date -<~f March. 24, 25, and 26 for the sub~fresbmen weekend in 193~. All :prese:nt agreeil. that the lntramural boxiB.g a.nd. wrestling events were a g-{)o..ct ad.di- tion to the program. The group felt an lnter-coJleglate athletic con test should 1le arranged. for next year. Mr. Wittnec, how- ever, states that next year- tile mn- ter sports schedule will be ower late in February-, thereby :precludjng any possibility of tllis innovation, More stl'ess will be put o:n exlliblts of a scientific nature on ti:J.e ca:m- pus next year. It is hoped t.nat the cooperation o:f the Mountebanks can also be counted u:pon to lend balance to t.he program, The suggestion was made that a senior picnic be held in the lat- ter part of May, but lack of time prevented discUssion and no vote was taken on this proposal. o---- Wyatt on New England Tour Frederick A. Wyatt, assistant secretary of the college, left Friday on a weelt's trip through the New E:ngland States where he will show the moving picture \Life in a· Small College,\ formerly entitl'ed \George Goes to Union,\ at several preparatory schools and will advise the seni'ors as to the college plans. The student Body of the college crowd of 12,000 dancers at the Po- lions of Tommy Dorsey and Glen New York State Mayor's Confer- under the new constitution will !iceman's Ball. Playing at the Troy Gray, minus the extraneous and ence, Professor Vernon A. O'Rourke meet three times a year, its only Armory with his thirteen piece or- sometimes annoying \jam\ which announced today. legislative function being constitu- chestra, and doubling on trumpet spoils tunes for some listeners. Mt'. Hall will describe the work tiona! revision. The Student Coun- and trombone himself, Clinton pre- Among the bxand new tunes intra- done by the Mayor's Conference in cil of 40 membets will act as the sented neat·Ly all the hit tunes duced Friday evening was a clever acting as a \watchdog\ for the in- g-overning body of the campus com· which he has written in the last fantasy in the swink mode titled terests of New York cities in Al- bining. executive, legislative, and few years to great advantage dur. \Strictly for the Persians in the bany. The Conference ads a.s an or- judicial functions. Membership of ing a four hour session. ·Crowd,\ which will be available on ganization to see that Btate legis- the Council, which will be elected Clinton's brass section is definite- . Vistor records (advt.) in a cou);>le Iation does not discriminate un- by the Student Body, will consist of: !y o11e of the smoothest in the busi- of weeks. duly against municipal interests, the presidents of the four classes, ness, featuring the tr.umpeting of Larry's versatility was well dem- an~ als<! ~cts as a medium through twenty-five representatives of the Waite~· Smith, who also plays the onstrated by his excellent stomp wh1ch c1hes .present their problems four classes and fraternity and non-: melop,}lo11e, an instrument whi<!h version of \Chinatown\ and also by and demands to the legislature. It fraternity men and representatives Clinton introduced for swing pur- his medley of ·waltzes played near also serves as a clearing house from each of the 11 activities sup- poses jn the arr.angements he wrote the end of the evening. But \strict- through which statistical and other ported by the student tax. The .for Glen Gray. The reed section ly swiag\ speaking, the Prom Com- 'lnformation of interest to munlci- chairman of the student tax com- is ably augmented by the clarinet· mittee's choice of Clinton will prove pal corporations can be disseml- . '!Wo of tlte houses sugge.llted mme JOmt teas, This year tbe Kappa Alpha and Alpha Delta Pbi teas were most successful. Ne'Kt year the committee in charge h-opes to bar rushing d11ring sub-fr\lshtnan w~ekend, .e:xce:pt in the cas!l> of leg- aCies. There will not be a special sub-freshman -weekend ne-:xt fall, al- though all chapters plan to have special weekends of their own to suit thei1' .l)wn needs. The college, through the Seci·e- tary's office, thanks the i2:2 UD.ion students who !li.Sited higb an.d pie• paratorv- schools during the recent recess. Institu tjons in man;y sta.tes in?lu~lng F l or i d a, Pennsyl vanla: mittee and the faculty coordinator 'ing of George :Oesslnger, an excel· to Union that here is the up-and• nated to those needing such serv- (Contlnued 011 Page 4) ·1ent soloist. ·Coming band of 1938. ice. M1ch1gan, Co11necticut, :Rbode Is· land, Ohio, :I.Iassacbusetts. New Jersey iUJil Ne'v Yorlt were cr>vered.

P~ge Two ~!lUff· .. ' tfUSlS ' .( '• FOUNDED 1877 \A Causa ·P~rsa Parol<t llssai\ 1937 Member 1938 J:usodated CoUe~idfe Press Dist:ibu tee\ of eone~iate [)[OOsf REf\R:ESEI'..lTE.D FOR NATIONAL ADVE.RliSlNG S'r Natio11al Advertising Service,lilc. C.'ol/ege Prtb!islwrs R::/Jrustlffalit'e 420 r.I'A. OlSON AVE. NEW YORK. N.Y. CHICA.G<l • .BOSTON • L03 ARGEI.ES .. SAN 'FRAtiCISCO The offidal n~.·\\.\~l'apcr l·f tlh. blU<.lentD vf l'uio•t Cnlkge, l'ubli.~ll<'<l Tu•--d;,y and Fl·.irla>:s thr.,ugli- c,ut the collt'~E-' y,·:1r, pX··ept during Cl1n~t1n:ui and :::3ptlug ret'e!-;~t'~ _ _ __ . ____ _ __ _ P<~!Jli~nlion (lfi;~~.-The Gaz<'tte P.res•. 334 State Sl. SchPne• ta.dy, ;:.;, Y .. 1't·lephmle 4-41·~_1 ____ _ Entered 3t t };,, ~c-h(•Jl£·('t:l•l;.· Po~t OffiC'e rt\' ~'t:'Llllll.l Class 1\la.Jl )!aHer Sub~criplion p ue.a Fiv~ cent\ a cO!Jy; *3.00 a )'l'ar; rlC'i·iVL'l\(:d ,\tt)WlHrL in tb.: l'ni·~ul S':ttl::-. l·~tlJtuni.li H.oUuu1:;, Sillmmn lltlll, Union Lullet:;t:! C...llllJ~u~. T\.lt..tJI1ull~, S1.. L~lll.l t .. ~,I~ ~:33 __ Senior Board .Frederick W .. Hequembourg ..... EdiLo1-in-Chief l'd UpsiJ·on Huu:;,-·1-8710 Robett C. Walter, Jr ........... Managing Bditor J> ol l_;p:;ii'Ull Huuse--·H>ilU Robert A. Sa.af .................... News Editor 113 3 Parlcwood Blvd.-4-Glo2 l-I. Wyman Hitchcock .............. Copy Editor Della Upsilon lluu>e-4-7U~2 Jerome Smith ..................... Sports Editor· Koppa Nu Huuse-·1-7:131 John H. Giln>.our ............. Eu.~ines:> Manager Delta. LTJbilon IIuu::c-4-I!J:.!~ Marvin M. Miller .. Nsociate Business Manager K\PI'!t :\'u Iluuse-·1-72~1 .Alan C. \Vrana ............. Circulation Manager K.o!J!•a :\'u Iluu~e-·1-7331 ____ __::~ Junior Bo:md C. Ru!:)s~li I lt·}'J George L. l'elk Cht·ostopher ~L J:o'ahy Larry Pellettier Sophomore Board l'aul Becker, 'H, Edwin A. Fitz, Jr., '40, Dona1tl llai&;h '41 Juh11 Lc\vl.s '41, Et:nncth .\lacK~tiZie, ·n. John Phi!i'ps, '41, Mort<rner Hu!Jins, '41, .H_oLe.rt. !:ich,ul- JJerg, 'H, Laokar Schwartz, '41, James E. rl\lllllt~. H. I.ssue Editor ..•.......... Larry Pellettier Assistants G. Peck P. Becker D. Haigh 'I\'uesday April 25, 1938 I'EA CE STRII<ES April 27 \\\ill l>e just .another day to the typical Uni<H• undergraduate, but to many student::; throughout the United States to- rnmrow will have an especial significance_ Several hund1:ed colleges have designated it as Peace Dar. The students of these liberal institutions w·ill hold peace strikes 2s a g-es- ture, perhaps f1.1tile but at least notev\'orthy, against our J>articipation in any war. During- the past month the Brown Daily Herald conducted a survey of student opin- i()n on peace am01~g 101 CQlleges. The poll covered five subjects of vital interest to eve1·y college ~tudent-EUt~ope, R. 0. T. C., lhe Far East, naYal expenditures, and the .flmdamental jssue involved in the so-called \Oxford Pled~e.\ By April 15, 31,515 stu- dents from tl!irty states in answering the s 11rvey had strongly advocated that the United States continue her policy of isola- tioi1. Eighty per cent of the ~tudents answer- ing· the questionnaire advocated that eithe1· tlie United S~tes should withdraw all of its f()rces from China or apply the Neutrality r\et. Sixty per cent were in favor of optional 1:. 0. T. C., while forty-two per cent believed H1at the United States shC>uld maintain its unqualified neLttrality in all foreign wa1·s. Nearly seventy per cent said they would fight if the country was invaded, while only t'\-velve per cen:t said they would fight in any war. This poll sums up the average think- ing student's attitude towa~<ls our participa- tion in world affairs-let Europe and the Par East work out their owiJ problems with- Ollt our interf~rence. A few short days ag() most of us weie vitally interested in the Em·opean scene. The 3ritish foreig-n policy was tottering, Adolf Ifitler moved into Austria, Lithuania and PQland were ·on the verge of war, and China seemed doomed to fa'll before Japan- ese aggression. Seemingly these crises have ])assed, the situations have measurably ><!hanged. We wonder. Perhaps it is only ille calm before the storm. Peace strikes have been opposed by col- Je~e officials and conservatives because they :f~e] tl1ey m·e cmly outlets for childii-ih cmo- THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, APRIL 26, 1938 tions. If th1s is true then the whole dl'ive NOTARY PUBLIC ~~ f'Ol' peace has been useless and its hope to We •have jus.t received a rettuest . Do·t\t.:\ ·a.n.· d Da<C\·he·(_Q 1 ''l' · · • t · t..} t<J pinch-hit for the columnist who C)) lJ) 0' mold favorab e pu~:~ IC opnuon ll're neva\' Y 1 egularly writes undei· this head- lost. ing. At fit·st, because the wire camel';;;==============~====;;;;;=========~ so Ia te in the evening, we said, ·• Too many people use the wrong· connota- \What the Hell! A fine 'time-what Liberalism is a word much in It would be bad enough if the tion of the wo.rd strike. They feel that such. doe.s he want - miracles?\ Of vogue these days. It is constantly students alone were unable or loath course, then we reasoned that such appearing in the newspapers, in .tbe .to express t·heir opinions. :But the an action CalTies with it violent, uncontrol'led' an outstanding column should not · speeche:; of politicians, and,. owa- contagion ~>rose ·fir•st among the Ad- '·'Ction Yet the usual neace strike is 0f en-: be degraded by .the WOt k of a less sionally, in the writings of C()-llege ministration and the faculty. For \ • · 'P • worthy hand. However, m the end students. But though the wol:'d is them, too, liberalism is· a ·castrated tiJ·ely different character. H is not colorful vve succumbed to temptation, .for. overworked it is not evident that doctrine. Seldom do the Union fac- . · b l d ·I'be t · t ll' this sort of thing does something it is well understood. ulty members express their collec- Ol' emotional, ' ut rat 1er e 1 l'a e, lll e 1-; to one's .ego, (ask Henry), With Perhaps a lesson in 1exicog1·aphy tive opinion on controversial mat- o·ent, and •Calm. This is what we would like that in mind, we appear her-e: take is needed to make the me&nill.g of ters. \' . . ; ii or leave it, but remember that liberaJ.ism clear. Webster states th.at From aU this discussion the stu- to ::;ee ha.ppell 0!1 the Umon campus. We! there is another 1eason for our ac- the liberal person is not bound by dent should not get too :pessimistic haye mmw intelJio·ent stndents in our midst eeptance of this challenge,. we are orthodox tenets or establish~d a vi'ew of the situation at Union. • . o . . human enough to want to be a forms in religious or political .phi- There are some beginnings of a who are as 1-nterested Ill peace as under- ft•iend in need. losophy. That is to say, he is corn- positive and concrete policy. Ji. great d t f . th 1·1 rr Th nly d' ffer The tests that the Sophomoees pletely free to make his DWLl de- shide fot ward was made when re- gra ua es ·0 0 er ·CO· e,es. e 0 · 1 - • \~Nere obliged to undergo remlted cisions on controversial issues. In ccntly eleven Union profess.or.s con- e nee seems io lie in the fnct that we cannot in more than just headaches for modern political analysis liberalism certedly as}{ed support 1'or the • 1• d. . those young men, for there followed guarantees· .the right to hear ·both \quaFantine'' of agg1essor nations get luge the l' and act Ill <t uO · Y, we are a· 1 ively discussions among both fuc- sides O·f a story. The liberal reserves and lifting o.f the arms embargo on l )otent hut pO(ll'ly orn·anized force. uJ.ty and students as t\ benefits of a ·the prerogative of throwing his Spain and China. This type of ac- . \' . · Liberal t>ducation as opposed to spe-· weight on whatever side of til,e js- tion is an e::xarnple of what liberal Vve cannot hope to orgamze a peace dem- cific. It did seem that the tests were sue he deems correct. But when ism at Union College should be. on::A.ration iu a day but it would he ve1·y constructed in a way that exa~1ined liberalism at Union College is ex- Whore the students are concerned ' , the student as to general, hberal amined we .get a totally diffet·ent the problem of concerted action is gratifying bl see Union College as a body knowledge. The voices rose loudest conception of the word. more complicated; there is no ef t . k . t· d · t·l .. f t . . .J, • 0' • , Rmong tho~E' who are confined to We havP a great tradition that fective organization than can repte ,l C ,t S an ll! ·lC neat · U Ule a:s uelllo VlO-. science majors. Perhaps we shall might be called .false libera.llsm. 0 ent student opinion at Union Col IPntlv opp(ilseci tc> w~r. Ts it necessarv that f'oon •know ju~t how each of the Students arc exposed to the oppos· lege. While n1any student.o; may fee . ·. ·t' , '1•1 , b I· , 'f · d , t.h t' ? . four divisions \hit\ ~hose exams, ing views on topics of current in· definite convictions in :regat·ds to V. e COil lllUC\· .) e C a::;SJ 1e as apa e IC • which knowledge Will, however, terest. But at the same time they subjects of current inter·est, there 'V e nll have opinions ; w hethet· they are rad- prove_ nothing, or will it? H?w much arc in no way encouraged to ex- is no medium enabling in.dividual . . . vvlll 1t help us m a cons1deratwn press their views collectively-. If, viewpoints to. be expressed in mass !Cal, nuddle-of-the-road, or conservatt ve does of which to expose the youth of our by reasoning, they have drawn. any opinion. This constitutes a very real not matter :But what does matter is that l~nd to,-specific or liberal educa· conclusions from the material ex- handicap to the students o·f Union • t10n? tended to them by a cauHously to!, College. But it is a situation. that we state and intelligently evaluate these We ask your leave to quote what erant Administration, they az·e n.ot might easil!\ be remedied. · • d th t William D. W. Hyde declares as The likely to express their opinio11s. Some year~ ago an attempt was opmiOllS, an en ac · Offer of the College: \To be at home. This is a peculiarly ostricb-llke made to organize a chapter of the in all lands and ages·; to count policy. The trick is to :pull yom American Student Union at this·col PENNY WISE AND POUND FOOLISH nature a familiar acquaintance, head out of the sand, look in both lege. It was an attempt that at the and art an intimate friend.; to gain directions, and then thrust your time received some· attention but a standard for the appreciation of head back into the sand. It cer.tain:ly too little support. r.rhe .A. S. U. would Something has to be done! The swimming other men·s wozk and the criticism cannot be called liberalism. There .fin the vital gap that e~ists at I · 't th • ht 1 th th · of your own; to carry the kers to is nothing done to cry,stallize the Union today. It provides a medium poo Jsn e l'Ig ·eng ' e gymnasmm · the world's library in your pocket, student's viewpoint. He remains as for the expression of student opin leaks, or at ]east, to couch it euphemistically,' and feel its resources behind you in amorphous politically 6peaking, as a ion; its very nature promotes Iibera h b l whatever task you undertake; to jelly-fish. thinking and action. Hmatio. dr-ips condellsed water vapOl' on t e as <et-. rnake hosts of friends among the ------------------------------ ball court, and the hockey rink is so ineffi~ · rnen .of your own age who are to be leaders ·in all walks of life; to cient that students were skating on a home- lose yourself in genevous enthu- IN THE MAIL To the Editor: made rink outside of South College while the, siasms and cooperate with others for common ends; to learn manners The Endowment Insurance Plan, famed Union College Hockey Rink Jay in .from students who are gentlemen, which The Concozdiensitl has tded I . h f t and fot'!ll character under profes- so hard to sell, is bound t[) f~'J. Severa l11C €S 0 Wa er. sors who are Christian-this is the ~ These mattel'S might be overlooked, how- offer of the college for four of the For one thing, the goal set b:y its best years of your life.\ proponents was an admission ol ever, if it vvere not for a far more glaring Perhaps all of you kind readers futility: 25% of the senior class- shortcoming that perhaps affects Union's · do not agree with Hyde-we do. and the response by vacatio·n time That definition, in all parts, is what bore out that futility: 10% of the athletics 1110!'e vitally than any of the other we would like to get ftom our four class were actually pledged. This .left'c'tencies in our athletic facilitt' es .. tile de~ years at college. It seems that col- represents an income to the c!J.llege u lege should do for its. students just 'of $1,5()(), in 1955 or thereab.::mts, plol'able COIH!i tion of Alexander Field. what William Hyde ideally hoped it <An investment now of about nine B b 11 t b t d ft would do. If a pursuance in some hundred dollars would equal that, ase a jl'ames mus e pos pone a . er specific line of learning can turn in seventeen years at compound in- the slightest shower because our diamond is out men who can measure up to terest.) Ten thousand dollar.s iB Hyde's scale, then the educational supposed to be the ideal for all a quagmire. Football games are entirely trend toward specialization is jus- classes to attain under this plan. spoiled from both a spectator and :player tifiied. A chemistry major, however, In the second plaC'e, many men has difficulty in finding time enough are bound to other schemes .such point of view following the slightest rain t<J spend with those courses that as fraternity insurance plans and I 1 h t t d th f . ld would tend to give him a well- the like, and many other will be W len P ayers ave O rea upon e Ie as rounded education. Is the course unwilling to bind themselves to neophytes on ice-.skates to maintain their you are pursuing going to give you premium payments for the next · that? There is the crux of the thirty years without being at an equilibrium. To say that this sog-gy field whole matter. It is possible to z·e- sure of the future. How can a pla!l jeopardizes the safety of the players is no eeive some of that much needed cui- like this one help failing in the t11re through well organized extra- face of that? exaggeration: many rumors have been circu- curricular activities if the student Thirdly, the endowment is needed lated to the effect that parents of potential has a mind to do so, but how many now. Under the insurance plan elect to do so? there is a long wait before the col· athletes in Union have forbidden their sons Well, it is for you to decide. It lege collects its money-unless the t 1 t h . h 1 Al d F' ld all hinges on what harvest you de- class of 1938 should die young. If O P ay 011 eams W IC lave exan er le sire t<J reap from these four years the money is needed now, why not as a locale f01' their games. Certainly such spent within hoary walls. D. L. begin an endowment now? tionship::> Le t\veen \to\Vll and gown.\ M 0 T I 0 N au endowment. But there is an aJ- C uiun's tl'fLCk team, which has boasted a ternative-one which would solve at only does be find hitlltlelf in a better colleg-e because he and those before him :have co11tributed to it materially, but he is free after gt·aduation to invest his money in anything he wishes-even endow ment insurance. This plan would not necessarily preclude class en dowments-it would supplen~ent! The objections that the fund might not ·be well administered at!d that the student would not feel as though he were giving anything, are just as. valid, if not mm·e so, for the insurance plan. That the insurance plaa would build up a .stronger alumni body is ridiculous. rt is likely that fewer gifts would be received from. al umn if they thought they were already contributing. to Union. :Besides, alumni should be held together with .omething stwnger than the fact that every b~>dy is paying $2:2.2'2 per yeax· for dear old AJma Mater. Some have objected that this plan would wreck e.!! the carefully-laid plans of the insui\ance men and the Council. So what? In the first place, it would pro-bably do no such· thing -the plans are not mutually exclu- sive. In the second place, -what if it did? Aftei' all, it is the best plan that should lle adopted, in spite of vested interests. It is only- fair to the students that this alternative plan be at least presented to the students for their consideraiton. Yours ti'uly, H:enry D. Hartmann, '38. an attitude is not conducive to cordial ~ela-ll That would be a useless question II if there were no other way to 1 a·lse '.;;;;;;=============.:..! once the difficulties of the other better than average record for the past few In Old Chicago, or \The Fifth plan: long-term waiting, limited re-IJ•. II years, is forced to practice on a track which Alarm,\ is hanging fire at the mo- sponse, a thirty-year burden on sul:J- LIBRARY SMOKESTACK ment (12:08 a. m.) at Proctor's. scribers. at times impresses one as being a course for Ii's really a very entet taining :pic- Here is the plan: collect five di>l- \ t I ddl f t · · tllre, don't you know. T. har. e are lars per student per semester along an 01:1S ac e l'UCe: pu es 0 Wa er remam lll ' with tuition. Result-seventy-fiV'e to Of the rnany gigantic miLitary th 1 t f th t 1. f d T' numerous shots of Alice Faye in eighty hundred dollars pet· uea.r, et uptions which ha've convulsed the e ow spo. s (} e racl\ or ays. !me black stockings up to here; there J · 1 h ld h b d' are several boudoir scenes involv- which is five times as much as tb.e world, the .story of the Mong<J! tria S e 011 SUC a track cannot e in lCa- seniors who have taken out in.sur- horsemen 11nder Genghis Khan in ing Alice and Tyrone Power; and 1 tive of a runner's true possibilities. tller e's the Chicago fire, which was ance up to now will contribute. If the thirteenth century is certain y also pretty hot. The historical basis you consider interest compounded one of the most spectacular . .After What is to l>e done? Certainly the C<>ndiw f h for seventeen years, it is eight to a :preliminary coi}Solidation of the or t e picture is undoubtedly flctiti- ten times as much as they will local tribes, t'his formidable cavalry, Lion of Alexander Field must be impxoved. ous, but, once one concedes that contribute. mounted on the hardy Mongol pony, M1s. O'Leary's cow did kick over This field jg our ambassador to visiting the lantern and thereby let loose All objections can be met. finally ovel'\vllelmed China in .spite t d t t f th • -'\ tile holo~aust, thn t·edt deems ct ed- p· 1 th . f of the Great Wall, and then with eams an spec a ors 0 ree major spohs, ' ' ~ ~ trs' ere 18 a more avor·able furious energy spread irresistibly d ll . . , . ible enough. reaction towaz d this plan than. to- westward .over the face o:f .Asia, an to a ow It .to remam 111 Its present condi- Alice Brady's is a good perform- ward the insurance plan. Th~ \\en- E . t th a b t t th' k h eral response ~~ \A few dollazs\'e~- across Ul'():pean Russ!a o e tion recalls the familiar \penny wise and nee, u no · we 111 , wort Y of ~ = banks of the Dnieper, plllagtng and tile Academy Award which it re- tra wouldn't matter when we pay slaughtering with a. ferocitv paral- pound foolish\ :philosophy criticized by ceived. As in the case of Robert our tuition.\ The student body, leled only by the mechaniz~d war- Franklin. M[)ntgomery in Night Must Fall, after several weel1s of b~!Iylloo, fare of our own day. Ralph Fox, the familiar face in an unfamiliar voted forty per cent in favor of t~e killed in action <;!. year ago while It will be argued that to grade the field role leads one to believe that the insurance plan. On The Concordien- serving with the Spanish Lolayists, d t k th h 'll t acting is better than it actually is. sis poll, a. generous forty per cent' was the auUtor of this \Genghis an 0 rna e · e necessary C anges Wl COS Frankly, we think Alice is inclined was in favor of raising the tuition Khan.\ several thousand dollars. If we may revert to chew her lines, if you get what to help the college-and this wit.h we mean. no word as to why or how, no pi\ed- In the pro.cess of shifting about to th.e vernacular, we bellow \So what?\ The Brian Donlevy, Tyrone Power ous ballyhoo, no warning that the two thousand readable titles from work must be done eventually, and the and AJice Faye are good, but it is question would be asked. Of co!nse,: the basement stacks to the rebadingf the fire . sequence whjch really there will always be students who room, we came across a num er o longer the delay, the more the cost. Soon counts. Ea;lier this year, for want cannot under any circumstances books which llave deserved a. better of somethmg else to say about pay the additional fee, A wise .and fate than the undisturbed: tran- the cinders '-Viii all have been Washed away, Hurricane, we said that the fire just admini,stration should not ilnd quility whicll has apparently been and the fi.eld will graduaHy deteriorate into scenes in In Old Chicago would \not it too difficult to examine these few theirs. Among these, Cha.r les be exceptionally thrilling, _ fires cases and allow exemption in ca.se, Doughty's classic \Arabia Dese1ta\ a .swamp. JYieanwhile, contests will have to never are.\ we still think we \Vere of real difficulty. described by ifohn Cournos as the be called off or spoiled by the conditi<m of right, but don't let that worry you. The favorite objection of the ad:- . \greatest piece of prose written in Mr. :Zanuck's fiery catastrophe has ministration is that tuition would English during the nineteenth can- the field, alld general discontent will in- a. la.rge and expensive lookthatwill be raised too high by this plan. so' tury,\ will reward the reader who crease as th(l condition of the field grows make up for any lack of emotion that students might be frighte~ed perserveres through the first few you feel. a.way. But this fee would be sepa.-· hundred pages. Doughty's style is - The picture, in short, is not as rate from the tuition, just as the difficult, but it i.s just this peculiar- advertised, \the greatest picture student tax, the diploma fee, and ity of structure and archaic quality ever brought to the screen.\ But it's seven or eight other fees we could . of the lang11::~.ge which gives the worse. It is understood that the athletic depart- ment has had a surplus for the past several years. If this is true, it doesn't take a stu- dent of logic to discover the channels into which this money should be diverted. As we quaint Concol'('Jy people say, \On the ball, boys!\ L. V. P. worth seeing, name, are never figured in with tui- book its inimitable flavor. * \ • pon in the catalogue. As for scar-: John Stmchey's \Theory and The PI'om Committee and other mg students away-remember t..ha.t · Prastise of Socialism\ Is a lU<Jld ex- people who admire Larry Clinton an increased ·endowment w111 :position of those revoiutlonary will be ever so interested to learn. attl'act students, and eventually. tenets to which the .autho:r .sub- that L. C. and his band have made make fo.r a lower tuition! scribes. Stracl:ley boids no. punches a short feature which will be re- It is absurd to argue that the and the boolt .should prove useful to leased (curses!) after the Prom is ~tudent receives no benefit fi- 01 n debaters, both of the f6I'mal and over. We pass this little information this plan as he would from the in- informal variety. along, j_, M. surance plan. On the contra1y, :not J, o.s. -·-- - Ten1 Con1 Netme H The v leaves t ing for inter col! and the opens f son tom cuse U, progran <Jutstanc At th pear.ed would t of one starting trips. I week cl of cerW tilts hut mster c Aflei' games c nesday; home So t·est of 1 first e.'!:· of them the Uni Jingon a College Vermon three el have sh but non of five . innings The 1 posed Jeftfield Bob Fe Brockn• shortstc Frank Palmer, Coa<;h\ Chet :F fray toll for the with H; Buchan infielde catcher ers will these b Coach r tual hil under : some sl be in c In a! will tal! cauti011 lief pitc pled s! from p ing dro: because As a r· drilling this aft Wher season Field ~ strengf of Al the ine 'L'I Only tennis l its. init local c inclemE to roll stoppec end, sc practic previot Captt Dwore, serve : comb in morrov derwa) and B• the nu: acting der lisl choose among ston, J. Wedne Kap: Sout 'fhursc Sign Upsi FridaJ Nu' Alpl: :B'rida) Psi gro11 Delt Mond1 11: l Phi, All i time 1 of the The be cor April their as .eac from·: Peri Uni• ai::L o Perry playe1 of an

the loath the For trated fac- mat- stu- mlstic of a great re- s con- the on of ac- be. is ef- repre- Col- feel ·ds to there mass .real Union that the ·COl- the but would at edhim opin- in a those to it after in en- fund daM feel thing, so, would is fewer ready with fact per the place, ·thing if plan ite of at for '38. litary the in After f the pony, . spite with .Asia, the and war- Fox, from er of tran- been le s the in can- who few Ie is the and ex- nary sub- to and THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, APRIL 26, 1938 Tennis, Baseb alT Ketz's Pitching and Ligon's Hitting UnionLacrossemen Contests Tomorrow: Outstanding, ButPro.fs Drop Opener Bow to Hobart911-3 OLD UNION By BILL KETZ Netmen Entertain Syracuse; Hel'e; Nine Plays in Vermont The faculty took the two runs in the fifth • Captain Joseph Paul Ties' Twenty-five yea1s ago, Union and field. The Phi Gamma inning by virtue of the.' For Scoring Honol'S; Ru.tgel'S met on the baseball dia- Delta's took the game, \Man Mountain's\ sin-. mc.nd for the first game of the sea- 9-7. The crowd was gle, \Lanupin's\ dou- Passe Helps son and the Dutchmen, though play-· bare I y noti'ceable. It ble, \Augy's\ and the . ing good ·ball suffered defeat by the was the fi1·st tilt of the \Old Master's\ singles. By JOE ANNESE score of 7 to 3. Three years ago, The varsity ·baseball team, which season for the .faculty, Although held score-· Union's inexperienced lacwo;se S1varthmore played Union and the· leaves the campus tomorrow morn- however, so they may less in the fifth, fwe team opened its inteJcollegiate cam- Galnel showed its :mperiority in ing for Vermont state and its first be excused. \La~;rupin''\ runs in the sixth wiped paign Saturday afternoon at Ge- winning, 11 to •1. intercollegiate dia:mond program, Ligon slole.the show as out tbe profs' lead and neva, N. Y., and suffered defeat at Opening dates for the various and the varsity tennis squad, which far as the batUng a.vet- insured the students of the hands of a stroJTg aggregation sport.:; have been pushed back due opens the local Spl'ing sports sea- ages went, lind \Man victory. The .faculty's rept·esenting Hobart College. The. to the bad weather that i~ usual.Jy son tomorrow afternoon with Syra- Mountain\ KeLz wa,; ef- lone mn in the sixth victors took advantage of the Ga1- enc<Juntewd in the early ,;pring. cuse U, wilT resume their practice· f.ective with his fade- wa:o made via \Babe\ net's weak defen,;e, scored five goal:; Dilling the early ninetic~ the base- program Monday with their own' away, since he :3ttuck Wal'nger''s single. \The in the first quarter, and then went ball sea:oon aiwaytJ began in the first outstanding problems. out three batte1 s, walk- Babe\ was advanced on on to win, 11 to 3. m, at the latc;;t, the second week At the start of the year, it ap- ed two, and di<ln't hit two fielder's choicecl, Union, appa1ent!y trying too in April. The earliest opening was pear.ed that the baseball outllt any. and the \Man Moun- haro~ did not appear to have a in '95 when the team played four would be l:andicapped by the lack The fir:;t inning wad tain's\ single brought· smooth attack, and nervouo;nes:o garne:o in and around New York be- of one regular infieid·er and one t)te big one fot· the him home. and inexperience were factors in ginning with a contest with Colum- :;tarting p1tcher for their road P~ofs as they scored· Besides the bat-break- throwing the Dutchmen off their.· bia on Ap1·ii 2. The Garnet ·W:J.s vic- trips. But the eligibility list last· three runs, five hits, ing on the part of the game. Meanwhile, Hobart, whipping tOt\lous 5 to 2, but lost the next week cleared matters to the extent. and received otle fr·ee Hon. Mr. Ketz, Max:· the ball around at a .g1eat pace, three games to Fordham, Manhat- of certifying the infielder for away ticket to fir:;t fmm Eisenbud's spectacular made fanta;;tic pas,;es to come tun., and Princeton ·by tho scores of tilts but ruling two of the meager George Miller, Phi Gam \BILL\ KETZ catch of a long drive in· within vulnerable distances of the 23 to 2, 21 to 3, and 18 to 0, respec- mster of five twirlers ineligible. hurler. \Rusty\ Hall Lnaugurated • centeifield by Sands in the Bix.th in- ·Union goal. tiv-ely. Golf opened on its earliest After having its first two slated the teacher;,' .haH •tJf the Luniitg Ly ning was an out~ tanding featu1e uf The contest inlruuueed two ,;ovho- date la5t year when the team lost to games cancelled, the one last Wed- flying out to thiL'd base. 'I:'he \Man the game. \Maxy\ made the catch ; mores and one senior who will carry Hamilton, 6 to 3. nesday at Colgate and the second at. ~lountain\ th8n gaVtl evidence of over his ;ohoul<.ler and received the· the Garnet burden ll1i:o ,;v!ing. Lacrosse has a tie with baseball home Saturday, the nine faced' the his strength by breaking (into two plaudits of the one or two fans pr·es-. Lenny Schultz is the senior\; for early openings for the former 1·est of the week yesterday with the pieces) a genuine softb.all bat but ent. \Chuck\ Passe and \Scrappy\ Fay met the Schenectady Lacrosse ·Club first extended road sojourn ahead .the ball fell from the r-~a.ch ·of all The box. scale: · are the sophomores, on April 2, 1927. Tennis usually be- of them: one game tomorrow with fielders for a legitimate ,hit. \Ener- Joe Paul was really the backbone gins the la.st week in April or the the University of Vermont In Bur- getic Ernest\ Ligon fthen came FACULTY of the Union team in Saturday's first in May, but in 1934 the team lingon and another with Middlebury through with the first of his two Player ab r h 0 a e game. He sank Union's only three traveled to Philadelphia to lose to College Thursday in Middlebury, three-baggers to score .\h.e hurler. Hall, c . .. . . . . . . . 4 0 (} 3 0 0 goals to tie with Bender for high Haverford, 5 to 1 on April 20. Track Vermont. Only two pitchers of the \Jo-Jo\ Shipman r-ecei....,ed a free Ketz, p 4 2 3 0 2 0 honors. has never opened before the 24th of three eligible for the away contests pass and ''\The Old J\IEaster\ Art · · · · · · · · · · Hobart Scores Early April and that was while attending have showed any promise to ·date, Lawrence then came ·thl'O:Ugh with Ligon, 1b . . . . . .. . 4 3 3 6 0 0 the Penn Relays. but none of the entire mound staff a single to score Ligon . ..A single by. Shipman, 2b . . . . . 2 0 0 4 0 1 In the first period Union appear- There appeard an alticle in the of five has pitched more than four \Augy\ Fox. brought Sl:w.lpman and Stubing, 2 b . . . . . . 1 0 0 0 0 0 ed unsteady and had difficulty in last issue of Tile Concordiensis de- innings in any one practice tilt. Lawrence across the pia te. \Ducky\ Lawrence ss 4 1 3 1 0 0 handling the ball. Meanwhile, Ho- scr-ibing the six-year history of the Starting Lineup Campbell singled. Fox to t-hird, but ' · · · · bart, getting away to a quick start Fa.-culty baseball team, The Faculty \Babe'• Wainger's inflehJ. pop-up Fox, 3b . . . . . . . . . . 3 (} 3 2 2 0 on Captain Iorio's shot, had full has been interested not only in the The varsity lineup will be ·com- ended the inning. ' Campbell, lf . . . . . 1 o 1 o o l contr.ol of the game from there on. intramural angle of athletics but posed of Captain Billy Thomas, Only four batters faced. Ketz in Weiler, If . • . . . . . 2 0 0 0 0 0 Hobart had scored three goals in also in contests with ·intercollegiate leftfield; Bob Garnett, thirdbase; th Ph' G , h If f th fi t the first period before Captain Joe teams of the College. In 1932 and Bob Feldman, centerfield; 'Charles e 1 ams a . 0 · -' e rs Wainger, cf .. -... 3 1 1 1 0 1 Paul, on an a.ssist from Fay, pene- 1933 the Golf team met the Faculty t F d P t · frame, and the second IODE.ng was a Brockner, firs gase; re a rie, scoreless one for both s:'ides. In the Studer, .rf .... , . . 2 0 0 0 0 0 trated the defense and faked the on the Mohawk Golf links, defeating shortstop;. Claude Wiley, right field; third inning \Larrupio'·\ Ligon's Eisenbud, rf .. , . . 2 0 1 1 0 0 goalie out of position to score the the teachers, 4Yz to llh and 6 to 3. Frank Myers, secondbase; Harry triple opened the frame fo:r the fac- ______ ·first Union tally. Union trailed 5-l This is considerably better than the Palmer catcher, and the ·pitcher. at the end of the first quarter flaternl.tl'e d 'th th p f Coach ,\Duli:e\ Nelson plans to pitch ulty, and with two outs ~'A..11gy\ Fox Totals ......... 32 7 15 18 4 3 . . s can o WI e ro es- singled the \energetic\ ·O>ne home In the second quarter Coach Bill sors at Softball. (Ed. Note: See re- Chet Robinson for the Vermont to account for another .of the fac- Harkness substituted Passe for port or Faculty-Phi Gam game.) fray tomorrow and \Swede\ Hanson PHI GAM\\ DELTA Larry Brockmyer. Within two min- for the Ml . ddlebury game Thursday, ulty's runs. ~·= t f th' t J p 1 d S[) F Going into the third;. the Phi u es o IS quar er oe au score • ay ..................... Bowling with Hy Enzer as relief man. Don h Player ab r h o a e the second Union goal on an assist C Thompson .................. Iorio Buchanan will serve as the utility 4-Gaoms wereb otn the s Ol:'tl enthd. of. a Dryburgh, 3b . . . . 4 1 1 3 4 0 from Art Lawrence, In the latter ~'\. ?Jluel · · · · · · · · · · · ·- · · · · · · · · · DF~brbr.ts infielder a.nd Dave Yunich as relief score u one run n. 18 rn- t f thi · d H b t d ' au • • • • · • • · • • • • • · • • · • • • · 0 m ning helped out considera.:bly, since Schrade, cf ...... 3 1 2 1 0 0 par 0 s peno 0 ar score OH Schultz .................. Bender Page Three Union Outing Club Group To Attend Square Dance The Union College Outing Club members will attend a square dance with Yale Uni- versity and Smith College stu- dents at Dana's Place, Pink- ham;s Notch, N. H., Saturday. On Sunday a group will in- augurate a series of spring weekend hikes to the Helder- bergs. Last Sunday the club offi- cially closed its winter season when five members went on a skiing trip to Tuckerman Ra- vine. Graduate Manager Fred- el'ic A. Wyatt accompanied \Vil- liam Swanson, Jack Bergstrom, John Gardiner, and Jack Senn on the final outing. 'BELLINGER PAINT CO. Arthtll' Trigg, l'rop. Paints, Oils, Vru·nishes, Glass, Brushes and Wall l'aper · 126 BROADWAY AMERICAN A·l LAUNDRY' The Most Perfect Laundry Work in the Capital District Ph. 4·3166 1030 Barrett St •. Buy ICE CREAM With Confidence FRO JOY catcher and pinch hitter. The play- it certainly spoiled the omo:sing hml- B t 4 1 1 2 0 0 three more goals to tak.e an 8-2 III Lawrence ................ Boo Lay ers will bat in the order named for \' ar on, 0 · • · · · · · lead; Substitutions: UNION - Borden, . h t experiment er's chance for a shut-out:. Miller, p . . . . . . . • 4 1 1 2 1 0 The third perL'od· found Hoba~t in- l\!2:'yersohn, Irish, \Veils, Pa•se, Stil!- t ese wo games as an ' In the fourth-seventh, ll:'latl\emat- •· man, Slatterly, and Hashrouek. HO- Coach Nelson does not know the ac- ically speaking so as t.o pleace Tiedeman, If . . . . 4 (} 0 2 0 0 tercepting Union's passing, and fre- BART-Dicldnsou, Alderman, Dicl,~ou, tual hitting ability of his players \A , F f th ih ld Tanner, 2b 2 2 2 1 0 0 quently penetrating the Dutchmen's Wright, Smith, Samelio, Harter, Moore, under regular game conditions so ugy · ox, 0 · e gam.e 9 0 er, defense. Lack of cooperation and Illulca.hy, Meyers, Borglum. Winship. some shifting of the lineup should physically .speaking, \ibo:ys\ were Burwell, ss . . . . . . 3 2 1 2 0 0 inability to hold the ball were ob- Hubbs, Eaton, Delaney, Harnish. held scoreless, while th-e :fratemity O'Brien, rf . . •.. . . 2 1 1 1 0 0 vious faults of the Union ten in this Scoring by periods: be in order. men garnered three rur~s. This in- Hobart · · · · · .. · · .. - 5 3 3 0-11 In all probability Coach :Nelson . k d th d f th \G ld Sands, 1b . , . . . . . 3 0 1 7 0 0 period, Union . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 1 0 1- 3 'II aJ 1 L Carr as a pre mng mar e e en ° E 0 en Joe Paul, unassisted, scored the Scoring-Union, Paul, 12:48, 16:H, W1 t ce a ong ou · - Era\ for the faculty since the score ------ 50:18. Hobart-Iorio. 1:23, 14:13; Boo- ICE CREAM cauti011ary move, to serve as a. re- was now knotted. The profs scored Totals ..... - ... 29 9 10 21 5 0 lone and last goal for Union mid- tay, 4:02, 37:16; Bowling, 10:46; Dab- lief pitcher, if needed, for the crip- way through the last period. Ar- bin, 11:54; Bender, 26:33, 35:14, 39:19; pled staff. Can has been absent thur Breymaier was outstanding as ['~e;T;ri;s;, ~2~·1·~.5~3;, ~2~7~:2~6~.;;;;;;?;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ from pract.ice several weeks, hav- Athletic Committee the Union goalie, since the score ing dropped hlmseJ.f from the squad would probably have been even because of pressing outside work. Submits p r 0 .·~. 0 5 a 1 5 TENNIS REGULATIONS more one-sided if it were not for As a result, Nelson supervised his • his alertness and speed. drilling -closely both yesterday and l.. All players MUST wear TKN- * * this afternoon. Monday, April 25 - 'J1h.e student NIS SHOES with soft pliable Chuck f'asse and Art Lawrence When the team returns for its committee appointed to !11vestigate soles. (Basketball and other looked like All-American stars han- season curtain raiser on Alexander several aspects of a.thlet:ics at Union types of shoes anr not ac- dling the ball. Field Saturday, the squad will be today J'eported its recoiOnendatlons ceptable.) • 0 • strengthened again by the services to the college Athletic 3:lepartment. 2. Students and Faculty only Fay, Passe, and Coleman proved of Al Mould and Norm Diedrich, No immediate action was taken, shall be permitted the use of themselves the strongest defensive the ineligible pitchers. however, pending- furll:w.e!\ study of the courts. combination from the second period the problems presented and the 3 D bl ld b on 'I'enn.is Ma.tch, 4 :SO p. m. sounding of student O\inion. · ou es shou e played · ·t ,.. whenever possib-le so as to Line-up; Only last Thursday, the vars1 Y Major proposals ad-vo.cated in- insure use of the courts to UNION (3) HOBART (11) tennis aggregation managed to hold eluded the vote for tean captains the maximum number of G Breymaier . . . . . . • . . . . Daugherty its initial outside practice on the by secret ballot, with no prelim!- P Broclcmyer ............... HenrY local courts, due to the previous nary nominations; pe:nnission to players. CP Coleman · · · · · · · ·- · · · · · · Babcock inclement weather and the inability vote by proxy; the couoti:ng of bal- 4. If persons are waiting to FD Clay · · · · · · • · · · · · ·' · · · · · · Grygiel to roll the courts into shape. Rain lots by the team manager and col- play, both singles and don- stopped further play over the week- lege athletic director; .and election bles players are to be per- end so that the netmen resumed of a new captain by the lettermen, mitted to- finish their set be- pra~tice yesterday with but one should the original appDlntee fail fore vacating. In the event previous outside workout. to return to college. that the set goes deuce, Captain Fritz Hawley and Marv Two important sugg-es'tions con- play shall stop at once. Dwore veterans from 1937, will cer:ned tltemselves \~<Vibll minor 5. The tennis courts will close serve 'as the number one doubles sports. One Jlla.n listed the aboli- on week-days at six. p. m. combination agaimt Syr<tcuse to- ticm of the no:t~'•Jlreseni «listin(Jtion 6. Play on Sunday shall be l'e- morrow in the match that gets un- between major !md :m.ln~r varsity stricted to the hours of 1 derway at 4:30 o'clock. Bob Carr spm-ts and instead jll:llt the idea. p. m. to 5:30 p; m., and all and Ben Rathbun will team up as of varsity and fresh~ athletics. players must be dressed in a the number two pair, with the four Also prop1>sed wllS the ~harige _of OLEAN WHITE COSTUME. acting a.s singles players in the or- the minor spouts a.wa11rd to a SIX:- der listed. Coach Bill Aydelotte will inch Garnet \U\ o.n a \\Vbite sweat- 7. Workmen engaged in re- c.hoose the remaining squad from er to replace t:he ilistin;gudshing mi- pamng or marking the among John MorTis on, Torn Ral- nor letters on .the swe~tel'S, courts are to be permitted to stan, Anthony Canale a.nd Ed Kane. It was also recomooeDded that complete their task before INTRAMURALS Softball Schedule Wednesday, April 27, 12:45 :P· m.-;- Kappa Sigma vs. Beta Theta P1; South College vs. Delta Phi. . 'fhursday, April 28, 12:45 p. rn.-Ph1 Sigma Delta vs. Sigma Phi; Delta Upsilon vs. Phi Delta Theta, Friday, April 29, 12:45 p. m.~Kappa Nu vs. Phi Sigma Kappa; Kappa Alpha vs. Psi Upsilon. Softball Results E'riday, April 22-Phi Gamma Delta- Psi Upsilon postponed, we~ grounds. Delta Phi, 11; Alpha Ph1 Delta, 1. . Monday, April 25-Theta Delta Ch1, 11· Beta. Theta Pi, 6. Alpha Delta Phl 11 ;. Delta Upsilon, 16. the major awa1·d, that of the white play can start . letter on the Garnet sweater, re- 8. The caretaker shall be sole main the .same; and that there judge as to the use of the should be a choice for- ·•~aua\ men courts after rainy weather • between a white or Gal:'net bat with 9. Children of the Faculty mom- Garnet or white lette:rlt1g, respec- bers shall be permitte.d the tively. . use of the courts if any are· Another meeting with fhe Athlebc vacant but NEVER to the Department is scheduJed for next exclusion of the two above Monday morning a.t 9:fi(} o'clock. named groups. • The com)llittee Is comJ>'OS>ed of John 10. Use of the indoor court in Krull, '40, chairman .and William the gymnasium will be re- Thoma.s, Al Borden :an-d Douglas served for the varsity squad Geer, juniors,. and P~til Santoro, when Inclement weather :Pro- sophomore. hiblts its practice outdoors. ---o--- 'bl 11, Violators of the above rules· Intramural Lacrosse Posst e will be denied the privilege of using the courts. Resta.urant·To.:p R.oom·Dellca.tessen GOLD'S ALWAYS POPULAR Tr~y Second Shirt Outlet S}J001a.llzlng In Finest Troy Seconds; Odds and Samples 715 State St. AoroSB from Arm.ory lnterestetl j;, Schenectady Interestd in UNION MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Street Jeweler 166 JAY STREET Watch and Jewelry Repairing a Spuk!.lt~ P.ARKER PENS All 'groups will be notified in due. time as to the dates of the play-offs of the }Jostponed games. Temlis and Horseshoes The first round of each flight must be completed on or before Saturday, April 30. Opponents must arran~e their own matches, Do not forfeit as eaoh forfeit will deduct 10 points from ·your respective group scores. Next year an effm-t -will be made on the campus tc orga.:nize intra- mural lacrosse for bot:h the frater- nities and dol'mitories; :it was an- nounced today' by- Fre ~el'ic A. Wy- att, assistant Secretar:y. of the col- lege. The intramural gaw.es will prob- ably consist of four Bfte~n-minute periods and sacll teaiO VIlli use ~IX men. A smaller-til.at:J.-regulat10n size field will be plann·ed.. Schenectady Engraving Co. 147 JAY ST. Perry, Vines Meet at Troy Union College students will have an opportunity to witness Fred Perry England's great Davis. Cup playe~ and fanner world's champion of amateur tenni.s, and lanky Ells- worth Vines, Californ:ia'.s outstand- ing contribution to the .court game in action, when the tVilo now stellar· professional 1dngs clash at th~ Troy .. Armory on May 2 ·at. S:30 o clock. College student tickets wm be 40 cents. ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORDIENSIS Don't Forget .. .. . • AT TONY'S YOU'LL FIND THAT CONGENIAL UNION SPIRIT. ' AND YOU'LL ALSO FIND YOUR FRIENDS IMBIBING TONY'S CHEER. THE UNION INN 517-UNION ST. Clark Witbeck Co. . 416-418 SfATE ST. Schenectady, N, Y. \Quality Hardware Since 1870\ Phones: 4-4161 - 4-4162 - 4-4163 WAX MAZDA LAMPS GIFTS YALE LOCKS Rate With Your Date • For the Glee Club Concert and Dance Get Your CORSAGE at T. J. KING, FLORIST Overhead CrossinCJ (State St.} PHONE 4-6444

Page F0ur Dean Garis Lists Scholastic Honors (Continued from Page 1) a1;;o a member of Phi Beta Kappa. He was ma:naging Edito1· of the 1938 Garnet, and was a member of the Concordiensis staff. A member uf the Social Studies Club and the Psychology Club, Muroff was also active with th\ Mountebanks. He is a member of the Kappa Nu fra- ternity. Also a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Cat'! R. Trahman, of Bloom- field, N. J ., is affiliated with the Kappa Sigma fraternity. He was Sport..:; Editor of the Concordiensis, and was active in the Mountebanks iH his sophomore year_ Charles C. Wiberley, of Troy, was a member of the varsity basketball team and wa;; affiliated with the Classical Club. He i:; a member of Phi Beta Kappa. A membe1· of the Pytamid Club., Matthew Wilson, of :::lchenectady, N. Y., was elected to membership in Sigma Zi. ---01--- Glee Club to Sing In Local Concert The Glee Club will mal{e its firo;t local appearance of the year when it presents its annual concert at the .Mohawk Golf Club on Friday l'Venlng. The singers have presented nine concerts and have tra veiled over 2,000 miles i111 theil· season's perigrinations, but the Friday con- cert wiH be the first opp01 tuni ty Union students will have had a <\hance to hear them. The concert is sponsored annually by the Schenectady County Alumni A,;sociation, and the proceeds are u~ed to fw·nish :;chularships for area students. There is to be a dance fol- lowing the concert. The local concert will follow the appearance which the Club is to make at Stillwate1· on Wednesday night. The singers will travel to Mt. Hermon, MruJs., on Saturday eve- ning when they will present a con- cert at the Mt. Hermon School. -~-o---- New Psi Upsilon House To Be Opened Saturday Th~ new Union College chapter house of the Psi Upsilon Fratrrnity, construction of which was begun last October, has been completed and is now being furnished so that it will be ready for presentation to the undergraduate members at a lormal opening ceremony on Sat- UI day, April 30. Members of the college faculty, alumni members, and friends of the fr·aternity have been invited to at- tend the presentation. A reception will be held from 3 to 7 and tea will be served from 4:30 to 6 o'clock. The new home of the Theta, as the Union Chapter of Psi Upsilon is known, is constructed on the site of the forme1 house, said to be the first fraternity houo;e built on the Union campus. It has been designed in a handsome \Greek Revival\ by McKim, Mead & White, of New Ymk City, the official architects of Union College. It is a two story, with third story dormer, house, de- signed to provite comfortable bed- and-study moms for 25 resident students. ---0·--- Kammerel' Says Institutions Do Not Offer Spil'itual Life Dl'. Percy Kammerer, provost of the Avon Old Farms School, in his ~ermon in the Sunday Chapel serv- ices, declared that our civic and so- cial institutions attract only our group ideas, and do not offer spir- itual satisfaction for the individual man. He censured the complacency with which we view our institutions, stating, \We believe, like children, that these institutions of ours are sufficient to provide us with pleas- ure and power and that they can serve all ages.\ Dr. Kammerer then compared the broken ideas of men to the broken clock of children which was taken apart for the purpose of discovering what makes it run, and finally abandoned as a bad job. \Our hope for happiness in future generations depends upon whether we can put together these broken ideas,\ con- cluded Dr. Kammerer. THE ACME BARBER SHOP Welcomes All Union College Students 509 UNION ST. Nearest the Campus RICHARD H:OYARlCH MELVIN MOR6FF PAUL GOLDBERG CHARI.ES WIBER.LEY CARL BOOTH Phi Sigma Kappa To Give Exhibit Cabinets to College The Beta Chapter of Phi Sigma Kappa Fraternity plans to com- memorate its fiftieth anniversary of existence at Union College by pre- senting a memorial to the college. At the suggestion of the Adminis- tmtion, exhibit cabinets for the li- brary have been chosen for the gift. The delegates will dine at Hale House Sunday aftemoon followed by a convocation in the college li- brary at 3 o'clock. Presentation of the memorial will be made by Dr. THE GONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, APRIL 26, 1938 Appointments CARL TRAHMAN ·LAR.RY ACHILLES W:iLLI•AM: JACOBER Mountebanks Rehearse 'Under. the Gas-Light' New Constitution (·Continued fr@m Page ll Edwa! d L. Canol!, dir~ctor of . of student activities wHl also be the Mountebanlts, last .night an- ex-officio members. nounced recent changes <~·n the cast' of \Under the Gas-Ligh.t\ which The executive functions of the· will be .produced in the campus· Council will be exetcised by an e:x- theatto on May 6, 7 and 9 and on .. ecutive committee comprised of the the night of Junior Prom May 13. president, secretary, and a mem- Rehearsals are taking place nightly • ber from each of the four student and the show is progressing rap-,. categories, class presidents, frater- idly. nities, non-fraternity men a:nd ta:x· Robert -Furman '4.0 who made his supported activities, the chairman debut with the Mountebanks as the coordinator of student activities Galloway in \Criminal 'Code\ has' of the student tax committee and replaced Jay Dayton '40 in the part· ex-officio. 'I'he executive committee of Bei•k. . will function when the Student Three veteran actresses Viola . Council is not In session and ·on Patterson, Barbara Mung~r and all matters 1equiring immediate ·ac- Miriam Joh11son have also joined . tion. · the cast.. Mrs. Patterson made h~r. The student council will meet ~ebut w1th. th,~ Mountebanks ~n seven times du'i'ing the college yea!', Twelfth N1ght and has played m its first meeting being on Movino-- s~ch .~ucces~.es . as \Squaring .th~ Up Day, May 27. The Student Body · C1.rcle and Wmd and the Ram. wm meet three times a year, a!' M1ss .Munger y~ayed the female though .special meetings may be lead. m the .?;yrc Pl~~ho~se P.ro- called on petition. Actions of the . duct10n of '1: Jde Rrsmg which CouncH will ·be ·referred to the Stu- was d1recte~ by Mr. Carroll. S.he dent Body for approval and mem- also played 111 the Mount€bank m-. bers of the Council may be recalled lt!al offering of theh season, \No· foHowino· petition and a regular More Peace\. Miss Johnsons only trial. \' Mouptebanks role to date was Mrs. Mc·Fee in \Wind and the Rain\. ----01--- NOTICES . The Pre-Medical Society wH! hold . Its first meeting since ils organiza-. tion last month tonight, in ·wash- burn Hall, Room 2. Dr·. Emerson Kelly, of the Al- · ~any Medical College, will give an Illustrated lecture on \Medical Hi::;- tory.\ All membel'S of the Society · aro urged to attend the meeting, which will start at 7:30 P. M. All students wro took udvantugc of the transpor[at-ion kom Skid- more for the Melchtor concert are· requested to see Mr. Wyatt CONNELLY BROT.HE.RS DAIRY Inc~ 1858 Hamburg Street PHONE 2·091 0 THE CAMPUS BARBER SHOP Basement of Silliman Hall A Speci&l Service for Union Students Anthony F. Barbieri llours: 1:30-7:00 P. M. I.OUlS WASSERMAN Cj)UALITY MEAT MARKET 354 Broadway Phones 4w3364, 4-3365 '1:11 1111 ill' IIIII . 1 1111 1;:n11m:lllil! \I CALENDAR Today 1:0:00 a. m,-Daily Assembly, Speaker, C. 'Teny Ross, '40. 7:30 p. m.-Newman Club Meet- ing, Silliman Halt Wednesday lO: 00 a. m.-11:00 a. m.-Piize Day, Memorial dnapel. 4:00 .p. m.-Tennisi Union vs. S y r a c us e, at Schenectady. Baseball, Union :vs. Vermont University at Burlington. Thursda.y lJO: 00 a. m.-Da.Hy Assembly, the Band. Baseball, Union vs. Middle- bUI'Y College at Middlebury. Busino's Sacrifice SALE MUST R~ISE CASH To Meet My Obligations EVERY SUIT AND TOPCOAT Formerly Sold For $50 to $62.50 SALE PRICES $37~50 TO $42.50 Made to your personal measurements on the premises. All brand new Spring and St~mmer goods. All goods marked in plain figures. These prices are less than good ready-made clothes. Anthony Busind Exclusive Tailor 725 STATE ST. Above Nott Terrace ---NOTICE!+-- Jloi:ATTHEW WILSON Arthm G. Root, '88, followed by the acceptance of President Dixon Ryan Fox. An exhibit of Phi Sigma Kappa archives will be displayed in the new cases followed by a tea and reception at the Chapter House at 4 o~Clock. 'To climax the occasion, National President Earl F. Schoen- ing will be present. ---•a--- Freshmen and Sophomores All freshm.en and sophomores wishing to compete for positions o? the Business Staff of The Concordl- ensis ar-e asked to see John Gil- mour at the Delta Upsilon House. Freshmen and Sophomores. an excellent sales- sales opportunity exists for experience in manship and management • • actual experience plus prestige on the campus which will later be helpful in making a start in the business world. :!\'\'~'· '''\\\'\ ' . \' '\ \\ '\ '\ \'\ ,, •\J1111!1111I;IIII•IO:IOOIIIIII!!IIIJI!Itlllmii\\'\''\''\'U'\\\\'''''\\Ul11\1\\''\\\\\\'\'\''\' 111 11IIIIIIOIIl!IUl\r!lfl•llolll\TIII\' 1 ' I ~ I I I I Gazette Press Printing ~\\''\\\\\'\\\'\\\'\\\'\\'''\'\\''\\\\\\\\'\\\'\'\\\\'\\\\III11111111UIIIn)!\nllli!IIIIIIUIIIIIIlllllilllll!hllllllllllllnltiiiOiiiiiii>I'IOI\>I>IOIIOI\I\OIOI\U\OIII>OI'\\\\\'\\\'\\\\\\\'\'\\'\' This is an excellent chance to step into a good paying iob in your senior year. For full particulars. see: r l JOHN GILMOUR. Delta Upsilon House Z51 Gle La~ An Wi Ch Of H: Pr In• So The make the y< cer't a Golf I under tady Not alumn to att the M ventic and \ &ntati reside and ~ patr 01 The will b The u-ocd each maint Union A I the 1 ticket !:<,ted hawk Din ties VI the g The affair mernt Thorn Josep Chris· H!nze1 Fisch Nelso Xhoa· LesliE I::> hie!< ThE T. 1•hn ;\[ \Vht t·l F (I [!.Tel Ill. ~~ J.n l·'on 1;ra I\'_ i;J Q \\.Hli ~1)· 1'he VI. Yc I! A ~~ \'IL ~ Lan Ca11 Dr. the J As so• Elect take low • and a we Mon1 Afl the I muir Wat1 dent: try a day stud< tw: the muir Wed Nam that staff. :Hale divl< ects weel In whic La.n: hom foun zlne:

' '40. Meet- vs. rmont the new ods. Deb~+ers Vi~it Cam:pus Today Z5lt Vf:il. LXL, N'o. 51 G,lee Club To Give Last Home Concert And Dance Tonight Will Sing a,t Mohawk Golf Club BefOl'e Large Number Of Weekend Visitors Here Have Gone 2000 Miles Present Varied Program :Including Skit, College Songs, and Solo Numbers ':J'he Union College Glee .club will make Hs only home appearance 01 the year tonrght in its annual con- cert and dance, held at the Mohawk Golf Club. The affair will be given under the auspices of the Schenec- tady County Alumni Association. Not only many singers, gue.>tB, alumni and patrons are expected to attend, but representatives from the Mod'el State constitutional Con- vention and distinguished guests and visitors from the house prea- (}n\ation of the new Psi Upsilon residence will be pre,;ent. Governor and Mrs. Lehman head the list of patrons. The skit, featuring Henry Clay, will be a highlight in the evening. The p1·oceeds of this event are u.ocd to augment the fund raiseu each year by the local alumni to maintain three scholarships at Union. A d:ance or·chestra will provide the mu.sic. Students can obtain tickets at Joseph'~ Clothing Ston, !:<,red Wyatt's office or at the Mo- hawk Golf Club. Dining and refreshment facili· ties will be available at the club to the guests. The committee in charge of the affair consists of the !allowing members of the Alumni Society: Thomas E. Hanigan and Stanley S. Joseph, co-chairmen; Robert W. Christie, James M. Dunn, Milton M. H:nzer, Samuel S. Feuer, Fred vV. Fisch, Charles L. Hequembourg, Nelson W. Nitchman, Malcolm Khoades, Reawork Robinson, J. Leslie Schoolcraft, Francis A. l::>hields, Jr., and Frederic A. Wyatt. The program is as follows: T.l·hnrul-- ar11l l•'lnale fron1 \lHe ..\Iei~tel'~i nger·· . . . . . . . . . . . \\'agner \\\here e'er Y cu Walk ...... !laud.! D I•~ount uf I..,o\e Eterual (Pc-u~ii'itl} ..........•..... \\'aguer nl~t:\ <'luh ll. ..-rtono1· Solo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . < ~de('te<l) (o'ha 1lr.:>~ Berger Ill'. Hununt>l' I·~veniug o' ••••• 1 1 ahngn.:>u lm·ideutal Holu-( 'harleK Ht:>rger l'otu•ot•di La~t ilia . 0 •• o ...... o. o. • 0 •• 0 ••• Fourteenth l 'eutury Hynm 1;rant ['~to Ilo \\'itllZPnl •o•• Bacll O.Jee l'lub I\'. Ol~t> ,(\Ju·h l.,!uartet , , • o o. (~elel'tt>tlJ Qu:u tette-.Juhn ~lit<\ hell l 'ha rles S\\eet .lame~ \\'. St·ott Juy llayton V. Hlitttl !'loughman ............ Clark !VL\' Lady \\'all<s ill Loveline~H .. :0. 0 0 .. , .. 0 ................. ( 'hnrle~ 'l,he H,.,ng of the f..lpen Honrl .. · .. .. . .. . . . . .. . .. . . . . . .. . .. . . ~lallntte Olt\e t'lnh \'L Your Tim~ to Howl-feuturillg l!em·y \'lay A Hkil by )1t~nthel~~ of the tHee Clul1 \'11.1\rlt:'clley of l'ninn (,ollege Scntgs .•. tHT. Ec11{a r· :.\1oultoHo ·:ri ----0 Langmuir To Visit Campus Next Week Dr. Irving Langmuir, winner of the Nobel Prize in chemistry and Associate Dil ector of the General Electric Research Laboratory, wlll take up his duties as Honorary Fel- low of Union College in Chemistry and Physics when he commences a 'Week's visit to the campus next Monday noon. After luncheon with the staff of the Physics Department, Dr. Lang- muir will discuss the topic, \Wind Water, and Waves,\ with the stu- dents and faculties of the Chemis- try and Physics Departments. Tues- day evening he will again meet the students of the Fields of Chemis- tty and Physics at 7:30 o'clock in the Chemistry Building. Dr. Lang- muir will speak in daily assembly Wednesday on the subject, \In the Name of .Science,\ and have dlnne•· that evening at 7 d'clock with the staffs of Divisions III and IV in- Bale House. Conferences with in• divldual students on research -proj- ects will continue thwugh the week. In addition to the N0bel P:dze which he was awarded in 1932, Dr. Langmuir has· received a host of honors and awards flam societies, foundations, colleges, and maga- zines. UNION COLLEGE LIBRARY •• • Validity tS Of New Constitution Ques+ior:~ed FRIDAY, APRIL 29, 1938 PRICE FIVE CENTS UNION COLLEGE SCHENECTADY N Y ----·- ' ' .. , Glee Club Manager . Visiting Debaters l~gin Conference ·At Meetings Today Comtitution A ttacke(l On Cr01mds of Validity 'l'hat the new constitution i~ unconstitutional and ther·efot\ null and void, was declared· to- day by a numbet· of ~tudcn to on the campus, inC'luding Jcseph Paul '38, Henry D. Hartrna:nn '38, and Juliu~ J. Bundgu:o '38. New Psi Upsilon House vl'io .Be Opened Tomorro·w De'legJ.tes From ;~~~ New 'Yo1·k ('olleges Attend Croup's Yearly Session They maintained that the old Constitution specified that all freshmen do not have the pr·i-vi- lege of the llo01, but all student~ have the right to vote. Since the r atiflcation of the new con.:Jtit u- tion did nut include the vote of the members of the freshman clas~ the new documcn t is therefore null and void. About 300 Alumni and Faculty Members Expected At Afternoon Reception Which Officially Opens New Structure for Active Use by Pnderg.raduates :Plan Varied Program Will Attend Glee Club Omcet·t and Dance This Evening at Mohawk Club Tomol'l'OW aftemoon the ne·wly completed Psi Upsilon fm- Lemity hou:oe will l.Je fo1·mally opened fol' the first time. About 300 guests are expected to inspect the house and at- tend a tea which will be held at that time. ----------------® Only the landscapin-g and minor ELMER T. JOHNSON New Publication Managers Elected Gertz, Sweet, and Harwood Chosen as Board Approves Budgets for Next Year Wedneo;day, April 27 11eeting this afternoon the Publications AJ>proximate:y 200 delegates It um 24 oeolleges convened at t0:45 this ·mor·ning in the Old Chapel fot the first session of the Sixth Annual New Yotk State Collegiate Debat· i:ttg ·Conference. The two-day pro- gra..m for the attending students ·,-,rill assume the form of a \model state .constitutional convention\ and inci ude addresses, discu~:oion glOUp<l, a banquet, dance, a.nd radio broad- cast. All delegate\ are 1 eq uested to register in ~he student loun<>e at Hale House between 9 and -12 \a. m. today. Ptesident Fox delivered the wekorning address to the opening assembly this morning in behalf of ~nion College, Preliminaty meet- rngs of the committees for· the dis- cussion groups which are dealing wrth such controversial issues as tax limitation, legislative reforms, and judicial administration, oc- euncd at 12 o'clock before a lunch- eon in Hale House. Board elected Stanley Get tz, '40, of Herk, '2·1, Addrt>sses Gmup Jamaica, L. I., business manager of next year's Garnet, Ansel Sweet. . The student discussion groups '40, o·f Elmira, business manager of 'met in assigned rooms at 2:15 this the Idol, and Arnold Harwood, '40. afternoon and at 3:30 a conference of Cooperstown, photographic edi- of debating coache~ was held in tor of the Gamet. Silliman Hall. A banquet will be The board also approved the op- f'erved to thE> dPlegates in Hale erating budgets submitted for· next House at 7 p. m .. with Oswald D. year by the managers of the vari- Heclt, '24, Speaker of the New York ous publications. These budgets me. Rta ie AssPmbly. as principal speak- now ready to be considered by the er. Student Tax Committee when they F\ollowing the banquet the group being hearings on May 15. \.Viii attend the concet t and dance The only budget not approved was of the union Glre Club at the Mo- that of next year's Garnet. Because. hawk Golf Club as guest.; of the the new staff had not yet been en- Sch.enectady Alumni Association. tir e 1 y selected and because the book T\he final official meeting of the would be a senior year book rather Mo<lel State Convention will com· than a junior book as ·has been the mence at 10 a. m. tomorl'OW, again case in the past, and definite plans in Old Chapel. At that time the to cover the transition had not as committees will present their re- yet been formulated, it was decided pOI ts and recommendations to the to postpone consideration of this assEmbled body. Issues will be budget until the next regular meet-. voted upon and the final condtitu- ing of the board on May 11. tion drawn up. Bills which dele- Gertz has been active in the in- gates wished to present to their tramural fencing program and is a committees were required to be member of Kappa Nu. He i.s also a ty.pe\vritten and fi!Pd this morning. member of the businescl staff of the Beginning at two tomorrow after- Concordiensis. Sweet attended South High noon a round table group led by l'llr. Joseph Rotundo, coach of de- School in Elmira, and is a membe:r ·bating at Unicn, will discuss some of Psi Upsilon. Harwood attended contested points in state govern- Cooperstown Free Academy and is nrent for fifteen minutes ovE>J' Sta- also a member of Psi Upsilon. tion WGY. 'Those publications which submit-· ted budgets were the Idol, the Con· cordiensis, and the Freshman Rre- ord. llonlltE'I At·tanges Program Charles B. Honikel, '38; manager of local debating, is in charge of ----a--- Annual Harlem Hop Is Held Tomorrow · arrangements for the current two- day session. Robert C Deubler, '38, is president of the Union so<'irty. Tomorrow night the Delta Upsilon fr·aternity w.ill hold its annual Har- lem BalL All guests will wear black faces and old clothes, while the chapter house will be cecora ted as a Harlem night club. Music for the evening will l>e furnished by Charley Miller and hi.s Junglela.nd band from Boston. Approximately two hundred oeou- ples are expected to attend. Headquarters for mo.ot of the visi- tors is the Van Curler Hotel, al- though a few are staying at their lceal fraternity chapters. The fol- lowing colleges are represented: Alfred University, University of Baffalo, Clarkson College, Colgate University, Elmira College, Cornell University, Fordham University, Ge>od Coun.sel College, Hamilton College, Hartwick Seminary, Ho- bart College, Hofstra College of \Continued on Page 4) --··- 0 ·---- Graduate Council Holds Annual Spring Meeting 'I' he old Conb! it uti on provided that an amendment could be passed by a two-thirds vote of the student cuuncil onlv if .mt-i- ficd by a majotity of those pres- en t at regular· student cou n- crl meeting. Council Considers New Concert Series Het·bert Fox, '39, Proposes Tax ::-;upported Plan fot· Student Concert Series The Stu·dent Council at its me.et- ing in Old Chaprl this evening heard a proposal .by Herbert 0. Fox, '39, to establis·h a student concert series for the college, The necessary funds would come out of the Student Tax fund. Fox:'s suggestion was supported by D:avid Miller, '39, Rollin Twining, '39, and Benjamin Rathbun, '39. The proposal called for a series of concerts such as have proved success-ful a:t other colleges, not- ably Williams and Skidmore, with the Glee Club appearing with a guest soloist. Another suggestion was to present the concerts in -con- junction with All-College -dances sponsored by the Student Council. Chait·man Wintt>rton U. D:ay. '38, appointed a committee composed of Joseph Paul. '38, David Miller, '39, William Hawkes, '38, and Sam- uel Hammerstrom, '40, to consider Bailey Cup Won By Vilmar Bose Daggett Prize Awarded To Paul, ·:~x, as Trah man Wins Classical Honors Wedne::>day, April 27 Prizes v.et·e awarded thi::> morning to 26 stu- uents in the annual Prize Day Exer- cic;e::>. Dean Charles F. F. Garis, assisted by President Dixon Ryan Fox, presented the a war <k. 32 in number. Following the presentation of the awards, Dr. Ernest M. Ligo-n, pro- fessor of psychology, delivered the principle addtess on the '\inquiring mind\ and use of the scientific method in solving problems. Carl R. Trairman and Charle~ B. Honiltel carried off the lion's shar·e of thE' honor.s, eight awards .being made to them, five going to Trah- man and three to Honikel. 'I' he Bailey Cup, pr e:;ented by the faculty and the most highly prized award, was given to Vilmar K Bose, '38, in recognition of his ef· forts in drafting the recently ac· cepted new constitution for student government. · 'l'he Daggett prize, awarded by the president to the senior who has been outstanding in conduct and chatacter, was given to Joseph E. Paul of Baltimore, Md. Other awards made at the exer- sises were as follows: the plan and to make a repor-t to All•n E••ay Frrzp,, fror thi \\ ht·>t the council ways and means of e~~ny\ on nuy >'Uhjec•t \uhm d h)· having the concerts and the senti- tht' member~ of the ~ellioT' c,Ja~~. m t f th st d t b d ·~ \Htl'tlt\rl to Paul .:vr. Uo1dlwrg, ttt·::-~t; en 0 e U ('11 0 Y on the f!t•Hry ~l. ;4~I<ler. \t•o'.nlld illlLl ,)uhn .J. subject. 1,~1Jy. third. Fox said, \This is the crucial . ..\lli,.on Priz(l'.~, a\\:lt·cletl tc~· thP thnt y-ear to start such a project. The ~tudellt!-o ~,.,. ho lla\'t' t·ouu ihute>d nu1.~t t11 year after next would be too late the parlil'ipa.tl<•ll of l\lli<>ll t'ulleg;e II• intt-\tc.·nll<:>giatt' (lt .. fmting. A\\arcl\'rl to to utilize the precedent a.f the sue- l'harlt·~ H. Jl••nil<l'i. til\! Hoh 1 ·rt c. cessful Schorr and Melchior con- Pt·llzler, \~··•Hill nn:! Bt'tll,...nl ~. ce1 tso\ Krau~e. third. \This will be part of the pr·o- Al'<'hihald lligh 8<·.1wlar,lliJ> l'dt.t-. f,t· the. fn(:'rnher uf thtt Ht>ninr da~~ ta.ldn~ gram sponsored :by the Stu{!ent J.at111 as nn ... of hb major language~. Council for increased social activ- wt1o ha~ attaitu,•<l th\' highe::.:t ~ntnlar­ ity on the -campus. The concer-ts \11 1 1> . .-\\\ard\d tn Ca.rl B. 'Trahman. possibly will be run in conJ'unctr'on llonnld !'oultn l'riz<•, for the t\\r <1<-- ha.tt\r 111 the- t•nllc•ge. ,\\\Hr•lt·cl t~1 with the Ali College Dances or L'harle\ B. llnllikel. Freshman Dances. Fuller S<mior Prize In !'h<•mlsi-ry, fur· IIFor years it has been the senti- llit> memht•l nf tht> ~enior da~~ who~e t f th \VtJl'k iu c·hemi::-.try ha~ bee11 mO!-L nut- men o e student body that the \t:tnrliug. A-.-ar•l,..ol t\ ~latllu·w \\' \\'t• Glee Club should appear -on the \\\ and \\'illiam J. Ja.-i>lior. · campus once during the yea!\ be- l'uller SoJJIIO•mm·e l'rizP In !'h<>mist.t•y, f_ore an ex<\lu~ively <\Ql'J.~ge a;Qdi- for the outHtanding sophonwJ·e in t'hl;:'lll· Tl . l~tl'y. ~\.\HUded lt• \\·aneu Dt·.~t~t\hll. ence. us plan would pr•ovide a H-orowitz Priz~. for th~ \euior in the time for a formal concert by the· t·uur::-;e· of Hu ihli ug Cou:-::trudiuu \\ 11~~ Glee Club, assisted by a vocal ha~ :-:olll\\u th~ tuo::--t improvt>-menl dur~ artist.\ ~1} 1 ~, 11 .!~.1:' yea1. A\\al'tlt:>d tu ltal(hh }i, \The r·est of the ser·ies would lnghum Prl:<e. for tiw '\'\ior !>lPseut- probably includP two other con.- it.IA' tht'- he~t ~~ay on nnp of two n~­ certs, one by an instrum-ent..!llist of \tl'ln<·d \ui>Jc•-1>' .• \\\arote<l to All'Il·d r:. national reputation, and the other ~eigle. 'th L~otuu·d ('. ,Jon{\:-~ :u ~morlnl }ll'iz~ .. e1 er· a singPr or instrumental for thP jutdor nr :O::Pllior who ha~ ha·l group. I \Continued on Page 4) 'Under the Gaslight' Is Melodrama In Best 'Hiss And Boo ' Tradition ~·----------------------- By WILLIAM MULVEY Good old-fashioned m~lodrama of the \hiss anti boo\ days will come to the campus on the evenings of May 6, 7, 9, and 13, when the Mcuntebanks will present \Vnder the Gas Light\ in the college thea- tre. Four multi-colored flood lights together and numerous small color- ed lights will light up the front of the house while a canopy will stretch over the walk leading from· the porch to the roadway. A Negro doorman in a scarlet uniform and a colored maid will assist the guests with their wraps as they arrive. 'The Union College Graduate The play, and the manner in Ce>uncil will hold its Rnn ual spring which it will be presented, will be meeting this w!'ek-end on the col- unlike an:>·thing ever seen at Union. iege campUB. The Executive Com- Everything possible is being done by the Mountebanks to make the production a gala musical affair befitting the Prom atmosphere. For example, there will be song and dance specialities between the acts. The villain, played by Robert Fur- man, will sing \The Man Who Has Plenty of Good Peanuts.\ The hero, played by genial Henry Clay, will render the heart-stirring 6ong, \Old Dog Tray,\ to the accompaniment of \'Hearts and Flowers.\ During the evening dancing con· tests in all popular modes will be staged, with the entrants coming from among the guests. Prizes will be award·ed to the winners of these events as well as the persons with- the most original and unique C()S· tumes. Flaculty members in blackface axe expected to provide a highlight of the evening. mittee will meet in the Graduate It is being produced by Edwa.rd L. Canol! in the exact style of the pe- Council Office on Friday afternoon . riod in which it was written. Much and the regular meeting of the of the furniture is painted on the Council wlll take place on Saturday ·backd!'op. The sea-c•loth (Whiclr will m<1rning in the Trophy Room of the represent the seal will be manipu- Alumni Gymnasium. late'! by two stagehands wno ,pr·ob- Burlesque too, will have its in- ning when George Conover (5' 3\) combines in a sister act with Rob- er;t Furman (6' 3\l to amuse and excite the audience with a real honest strip-tease. Barbara Munger will sing \After the BaJI Is Ovet·\ starting_ it in the manner of a waltz and ending it as a hi-de-ho song and fan dance. · adjustments within the house are yet to be completed. Tt is .expected that the undergraduates will move in early next month. Th<' new hou:,;e has bee-n design- ed with a view to creating a home- like atmosphere in a building whose color scheme and style is in harmony with the architectural traditions 0f North and South Col- leges --the first buildings built from the plans of Joseph Jaques Ramee in 1812. Follows Colleg<\ Plan 'l'he exterior is of stucco with wooden trim and a slate roof. The building is entered from the north through a .porch with Greek Doric columns. To the right of the stair hall is the library, finished in nat- ural pine; to the left is the dining room, the walls of which are lined with upholstered benches that fol- low around the curved end at the east. In the center of the west front is the large living room leading to a flag&'ed terrace overlooking the Memom;tl Chapel. Balancing the hbraty m the south wing is a card room. In the southeast corner is a special suite for visiting alumni. The rest of the ground floor is left for service and a powder room for use dming entertainments. In the ·basement are the large meeting. toom, the game room the mechanical plant, storage ;com and employees' quarters. Decorated by Widma.nn On the second and third floors are bedrooms and studies, ar- ranged in suites, giving accommo- dations for twenty-five students. The interior decoration and :fur- nishings were installed under tbe direction of Oscar Widmann in <;onsultation with Mrs. Waiter C. B_aker. Handsome antique mantel- pieces were obtained for the three principal rooms, and the furniture has been tastefully selected in har- mony with them. The building was. designed by Lawrence Grant White of McKim Mead & White, who also designed the Memorial Chapel . 'l'he building was made possible through the contribution of about 70 members of The Theta the alumni association of the Union Col~ege chapter of Psi Upsilon, of whtch Dr. G. Marcellus Clowe '11 is president. ' Mrs. Clowe Is in charge of the presentation tea tomorrow after- noon. 0· Campbell Writes A1·ticle For Albany Newspapers With the eighth Constitutional Convention of New York State in progress at the state capitol and :'-r ousi_n?' the interest of professors m polrhcal science, Dr. Douglas W C~mb.ell, assistant professor of Con~ strtutronal Law at Union has writ- ten. two long articles in the Albany Kmckerbocker News viewing the 1938 session. Appearing with a reproduction of a proposed amendment submitted by Delegate Robert E. Whalen of Albany, Dr. Cambell suggested that democracy or constitutional govern- ment is facing a true test in the convention. \The problems of New York _Sta~e are such as to make its Constrtutronal Convention an object of general interest. The mere fact that only one-fourth of the citizens of New York who went to the polls f:' vored a Constitutional Conven- tion does not make the holding of that con,yention an abuse of de- n;ocrac7, Dr·. Cambell explained in hrs arhcles of April 25 and 26. 0---- Dr. Rchumann To Speak Chaperones for -the affair will he D~an and Mrs. Charles F. F. Garis, Mr. and Mrs: Arthur Lawrence. MJ:r·. <Continued on Page 4) Following the meeting on Satur- ably will be seen by the audience. day, luncheon will be served in · \Beik the villa-irt, will pursue the Hale House,. after which the mem· pretty, virgin heroine across .the bers of the Council will attend the stage with the wot·ds, \Ah-ha Union-Colgate track meet. A tennis now my pr-etty maiden.\ Yes. even match wHh Middlebury and a base- peanuts will be a.vailable. And hiss- bali game with Haverford are also ing of the villain will definitely be scheduled for SatUt•day afternoon. allowed. Unlike anything ever before seen on the M:ountebanks stage? But yes.! The Schenectady College Woman' Club will pre.sent Mr. F'rederick C Sc~umann, Professor of Politicai Scrence at Wllllams College, in the Old Cha~el, Tuesday evening, May 3, at 8 o clock. Mr. Schumann will ~peak on \American's Foreign Pol- tcy.u

Page Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 29, 1938 .. • ly 1nolded a tenm together that is worthy of .. :' .• 1 I trns our commendatioN. The Healthy Animal · '. Prize .aay has come and g1>n~. · : : · ··. {ll· The varsity nine opens its home season l'-;;;==;;;;:;;==========l.! leaving this columnist a some- By He~'bex1t .o. Fox D -- what qualified token of his ability '..\;;;=========;;:;:;;===;;;!.1 dLonr.o Tbe Cider Mill MUSIC ' tomorrow afternoon against Haverfm·d. When we commenced batting out as an essayist. Eut such accomp~. Let's forget our weekend \dates our after- the twelve inches, we stated that lishment is dwarfed into nothing- Every once h· a while a concert FOUNOED 1877 we would txy to be sweet and kind.· ness by the mighty deeds of Tlie comes along 1vhicb induces the col- .· noon's at the movies, and h.H'H out in full But nGw there comes a day when Carl Trahrnan. Those Latin stu- · umnist to draw himself up sharply ± • Al d Fi\ ld t h · t thexe is nothing sweet about which dents always do pretty well !my- and: dust off .soeme of those ·seldom \A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ 1937 Member 1938 f.::Usociated CoUe6iate PreS! Dlstributoc fill CoHe5iate DitSest .R:EPRESENf.EO FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY NationaiAdver.tisingService, Inc. Co/lege Pubilskers Repressntativ~ 420 MADISON f!.VE. NEW YOF>K, N. Y. CHICAGO .. BOSTON • LoS AflGELES • SAN f:R'ANCISCO Tl~t· offktal JJ•·w::l·~l'JH r 11f tlll~ ::s.tudent::J of 'l!n1o'1 t 't,lkgt•. l'tlhh:-lwd Ttu·-.~._ Lty a111l lt'l'illay::; through- out t !Je t'ltlll•:..:t.• y.•:t r. t.·X:. t•pt tllning Christmas aud ~jll ill g- l'l'l'l•~:-··~ PulJlication Uff.t•t·. ThL~ ·(:J.1z1 tt~ Pn:::=;:;, 334 State ::>t., -~~~L'Ilt:_~L~t~~.-~. Y .• 'rdephnJt_e 4-·1141 Elllell'd 'Ll lilt· StaJu:Jit·t·t:LdY Post Office a~ s~\\llild l~l.l:-.~ .:\latl .}latter ~u!J~L'l\IIJtitJll !Jilt e Fi\\t• ( t.:llt\~ tl t'Opy; $:!.00 a YL':tl'; dl'lht:l't.:tl all)\\ lit IL! in the lJJ1itctl ::)talL'::c.. Etlaonal B.ool!l~. ::iilluuun H.ull, Union L'ullege l':UIIJ•tl:-, _:~~d~V~lunu, Sellelll't'tatly, 4-~~-1-~~~- Senior Board Frederick W. Hequemboux g ..... Edilux-in-Chief 1'.-l Lip~Jilun Huu3~--!-h71U Rob<•rt C. Wallet, Jr ........... .Ma·naging Editor l'bi l.!p::.il'<•ll lluuse-·-4-ls71U Hobert A. Saaf .................... News Editor 1133 l'arlmuud Blnl.-4-ul~~ II. Wyman Hitclwocl<. ....... __ .... Copy Edilor I•tdta Lpsiluu lluu~e-·1-7~:!~ Jcmmc Smith ..................... Sports Editor E:LPI•:t ~u Hun~e--t-7331 J \hn H. Gilmour ... _ .... _ .... Business Manager lh.lta L;p::,il11n llt•u~~:---·1-7:J:!!! ~1arvin M. Miller ... A;;:;ociate Business Manager E.qoj•'l ~I! JluU!'ot:--t -~3:.!1 Alan C. \Vwna ............. C:!rculation Manager __________ E·!l'J'a ~u_l_lou~t~--t-733_1 ________ _ Junior UO!ud ~- Itu~st•ll Ilt'J.d CJ lliStupl•!;'t· .\1. Faliy Oeurge I ... l'eL\k Larry Pt:>llt:ttier Suphumu1e Board l\aul Bt.•('kPr, '41, Ed\\ill :\ Fitz, Jr., '40, llonabl JI:u~h. '41, .Julin LC'\\IS, '41, 1-\.t'fllll~th ,\lat·Kell:t.lt', '41, .Julm Philf(n->, '·11, .:\'lullltllcr l{uU.ius, '41, Hobt-tl SvhUl- l1e 1 ~. '41. La:-l·Wl' :-}t'lm .at tz, '11, Janlt}S E. T\\ tniug, '·11, I ~c:ue Ed it or .. .......... C. H ussell De yo Assistants orce on exan · e1· e 0 s ·OW our eams wa\-consider Joe Woolman ln. seriously considered things· such as to drain oux .golden pen. Theref0re: , that we are behind them one h tmdt·ed per NGw that the new constitution ·has 1935, Bob Langer in 1936, and values, ideals and ,ethics. Haw fair been formally appl oved and accept- Charlie Reeves in 1937~allt five- is being honest? and hqw honest is ed and the campus regaining .its prize winners. It was a good thillg being fair? Last -night's Thursday uo>ual -lethargy we quote from the Carl's seat was near the chancel- 'Musical Club' Concert, which fea- cent, win, lose, or draw. col•lege handbook: \-·All students otherwise it would have paid hiin · tured the Metr-opolitan ten 0 r, Fred- NE\V PSI UPSILON HOUSE have voting power but freshmen to install a pr·ivate trolley. erick Jagel, \Vas such a perform- are not given the privilege of the • ·. ance. Un·ion Colleg-e as well as the members of floox.\ In other words Tuesday's Having n':'a.rly rounded out ayear The choral ,gx:oup is a hard-worlr- the P~i Ur~::;i'lou Fratemit~r may well be vote was unconstitutional . . . as a ptactrcxng columml!t, •v ha'le ing organization which, .from an J North co!llltry ·Prom: ... Jacques C?me to ~h~ momentou~, If not pre-., amateur .standpoint, is well above proud of the 1-umdsome new chapter house Hena.rd failed to live up to his xep- Cisely orxgmal, conclusron that we the average. However, every time t t . I the ord he was plain r_ abb_ le_ rousers are as a gro. up and we have reviewed a -conc:ert by this which the· Theta chapter opens this week- :~~\~o~. _n,o Th~ 'bar:mouth Green mdividually extremely unfaH. Such woman's chmus we have mention- eHcl. Situated in a IH'O!HineJ,lt position, its. band of Saturday night was better unfairness is not intentional, but; ed the fact th.at tlie contlalto sec- ltked by the bunch ... A certain arises out of our des~Je to ~e l'ead. tion is good but the sopranos are clean architectural beauty is a definite addi-. Union man felt pretty good when We present thmgs m thexr most • often ju.st a sex:!es of squealt:s 1 25 startling light-and that is seldom· · • · tl .(J!l to the cai1lpu.~. The ent·I·l·e st•Idet1t '-odu hi;; gal asked him to dinner ( . - M J 1 b . .I . t \' c u J favorable. While not deviating r. ·age IVas :o v1ous Y In er- pex l at the Gideon Putnam. For · \bl · 1 t · ht b t th t h II b f . th ] t b ,. f1\t' fxom honest convictions and.simple ,rx· e vmce as n1g _, u a ap- aos we as mem ers o · e c 1a:p er ' eJ-.e· drinks they went to the bax. BiU: truth, we accent a w0rd here and a ·pens to the best of artists . .Should 1. • t $12.00. . . . Denzler managed to get h · · 1 k h\ d · u~· I S presence. to the Prom in spite of l<'lsing his phrase there and presto!-powerful . t e crxtxc over- oo t xs an praise I · th t 'b implications ap.pear to lend our a man ·on how he should have sung tepresentmg e genemus COH 1\1 u- tail:s and 10tuff ... Uncle Willy · d t h h t 11 d-d? maiked time ... In the Worden at sentence a quality extremely dis- an no ow e ac ua y 1 . tions of seventy loyal alm~1ni 1nembers of the 12 : 35 : \Gosh she may be easy on turbing to the people and institu- There was, howeve1·, one Iedeem- fnttemit.:v, it is a symbol of the fine spirit the eyes but on the wallet- Wow!\ tions we attack-implications of ing feature of .the .pe-rfox·mance. ... 12:41: \That blind date wasn't which we om selves are unawa1'e 'at That was a H:y1nn of Peace ·by the which guides the mo1·e fortanate in shal'ing >~ bit good looking, if ym:x know what the time o.f writing. iocal composer, M1s. Caldwell, which I J \ J \I k • * * won the contest sponsored by the their advanta2:es with othel's. mean, awn_ · · · awn: now t h Cl f '\ what you mean!\ ... 12:55 at I is muc easier, natumlly, t1> do Thursday Musical ub as part o Vv'e hope that other fraternities will find Kings: \Most Unions know Skid- a good job of satirizing a pexson's' the club's twenty-fifth anniversary. · · t\ 1 b t foibles than to eulogize his -merils.: ·This piece is wl'itten with a bwad, < 'l \\c''\' to 0 1.1'1Ll·late the eff~OI'·t of Psi· Upsl-lon. mOle women 111 tmate y, ut no ., '· \ ., well!\ ... Was there no mutual The nasty habit people ha.ve of strong style and conveys the spirit Union ha::; a campu 8 which compal'eS favor- friend in the house? ... Not many looking for ulterior motives maki!.S of the Biblica 1 verses from which Union men at the doill's . . . Is the average panegyric seem insin- ' it spxings, Nfica.h IV, 1-5. Its in- ably with those of the best colleges in the Smith cutting in on Slddmore's mo- cere-wiitten .for what the col- troduction and finale had a blunt- east. With more simi·lar additions, the Union nopoly of the clientele? , • , umnist hopes he can get out of the ness and strength that was almost Nasty but not Newsy: Wonder individual lauded. The encomimn, Sibeliusque. The middle section was campu::; could not l.Je rivaled in beauty and whet e Mulca-re got that black eye? moreover, is per se the dullest foxm not as strong, ,original, or convinc- of literature. Hence our scallions· ing. The composex turned .from the charm. R. A. S. Dave Taft has been cutting a lot of far outweigh our orchids. (we gaunt harmonies with which she Bronner's classes. Statistical note: It is one hunclred miles to North· Winchellites!) Since there is no had fared so well- and adopted a STUDENT CONCERT SERIES Our social life has 'been augmented this year by several new innovations. The Stu- dent Council sponsored two \All-College\ dances, the newly created I nterfraten1ity Council ran a successful Interfratet·nit:y Ball, and La uri tz l\Ielchior presented a con- cert to the college under the auspices -of :Mrs. Walter C. Baker. The success of these func- tions shows clearly that the student body sense in ribbing a nonentity, t:he more classical style. If Mrs. Cald- ampton. ltsk!l · · · Prom Pl'evue:>~: most sterling characters on the well could decide whether she The price for the Amherst Prom tLany Clinton) is $ 7 . 50 . The differ- campus, sta1ting in magnitude with wants to be arnodern ora classicist, ence is due, no doubt, to the fact the President, naturally come in for and not a sort of hybrid, her music that Amherst has a roof over its the most satirizing. Yes, we col- would stand a. good chance of be- umnists are unfair! But otherwise, coming, if not great, at least very gym and can guarantee ax idity. Shall we call it a cover charge?? would we be Iead? good. More gent>I'al stuff . . . Ask Johnny March what Lhe English of- fice boy spelled with a \k\ ... The penny wise editorial in Tuesday's issue wa,; the McCoy. With the Glee Club in Buffalo: Spring Vacation Baggage Tip: PHONE RJUlWAY EXPRESS C. Fahy J. Twining ,J. Lewis fully appeeciates the added emphasis on They stayed at the Buffalo Athletic Club, one of the most palatial club<> in the country ... pool, etc. , .. The glee club has a good \rep\ in Buffalo ... \Ace\ Dodge took care uf all the lonely hearts on the train home. Car by car ... Jay Dayton went into the train bar at Buffalo and came out at Fonda-happy , , . Hank Clay flew back in order to make a Mountebanks rehearsal ... Bud Campbell, '25, in Charge of the concert, wondet ed who was trying two-and-a-halfs off the low board in the dark Sunday morning A Nil SAVE MONEY, TlME ANIJ TRfiURLE =-=-====-=-~-=-~-~- ~- -~~~==~====- Union College social life. Ftiday. April 2~. 1938 OFF 1'0 A BAI> ~TART Apparently some members of the Student Cmmcil have sacrificed pl\inciples to gain re- sulb. At least. the~· have been ~uilt~· of a g-rave oversight. The pmponents of the \functional\ constitution we1·e elated over the results of Tuesday's student body vote; their effot·ts had been cnnmed with success. Unfortunately we must question the validity of this vote. The official Union College Handbook for the ~·ear 19:3-t-:~G lists the fGllowing colleg·e rule. \College activities a1·e governed and controlled to a large degree by the students themselves organized as the student body of Union College. l\Ieetings 1n·e held the first l\Ionday of each month. At these meetings all business concerning student activities is transacted and all students have voting power, but freshn1en are not given the privilege of the floor.\ The freshman class was not allowed to vote in Tuesday's meet- ing. As this procedure is contrary to college rules, the voting· is invalid and therefore the \functional\ constitution has not been for- nutlly accepted by the student body. We feel that the \functional\ constitution is a step forward in the rig·ht direction. It should give the student body a populat· form of :::>tudent government. There are some wealmesses in its propos-€d set-up, but we feel that its many ad van ta.ges offset these inherent defects. The maj.ority of the three uppet· classes favor this \n-ew deal\ in stu- dent government .according to the recent vote. Yet we feel that the freshman class must be allowed to voice its sentiment be- fore the new constitution can be formally put into action. Let's start off on the \right\ foot. WIN, LOSE, OR DRAW Union College has many things to be pl'Oud of these days; ·but it should be espe- cially pmud of its varsity baseball team. As has been the case in the past s-everal seasons, this year's team has been dogg:ed with in- .i urie:-~, inex1>el'ienced players, i neligibilities, and a small squad. Yet with all these short- Pnming·s C'nnPh \T1nl\P\ Nr>lson h:ts apparent- At the last meeting of the Student C<Jun- cil, Herbert 0. Fox, '39, made a proposal which promises to broaden our social and cultural activit;y to its propet• place. Fox sug-gested that a student wncert series be e::;tablished for the college. This series would probably consist of a concert by the college · glee club, another by an instrumentalist of national reputation, and a third by a singer or instrumental group. The cost of this series would be defrayed by funds from the Student Tax. We feel that the student body would be very wise to support this proposal. Oth.er colleges of our size, notably Williams and Skidmore, have found simila1· plans success- ful. The cost that these concerts will place on the student body is inc0nsequential i.n comparison with the benefits derived. And at Other Colleges ... DAHTI-ITh!OUTH has a new pxogram for regula- tion of its Greek-letter fratemities. Beginning next year, a thiee-year pxogram to reduce the maxi:mum numbe1 of members for each organi:?:ation to 55 will be inaugurated. No one hous~ may pledge more than twenty-one students from a single class. Moreovex, no .:tudent who is un probation can be pledged, and all actual pledging must be done in the office of the ad- viser to fratei·nities. * • The COLLEGE of PUGET SOUND is one of the most unique institutions in the United States. It has never had an endowment. It has never had outside suppoxt and has passed through the depression years. with its income always exceeding its expenditures. It has 600 students, four buildings, a.nd a forty acx e campus. * DICKINSON COLLEGE students must participate in extra-em ricu!ar activities be fox e being eligible for gxaduation. Both the over-assertive student artd the inactive are restricted by minimum and maximum regulations set down by the faculty, regulating all stu- dent activity. * 3 * The average college student sleeps 56 hours every week, according to a survey conducted by Dean L. Hekhuis of the UNIVERSITY OF WICHITA. The survey showed fm ther that the students who W()rlted the most studied the most. * \ * The Rev. R. C. McCax thy, president of MAR- QUETTE UNIVERSITY, believes there should be. fewer college students. The Rev. Mr. McCarthy be- lieves \wE' spoil many fine bricklayers and plumbers by subjecting them to a college education. * * * And that's that for today. ---o--- IN THE MAIL STUDENT COUNCIL SCORED To the Editor: After nine months of labored de- liberation, the student council has finally forced through the student body what .they believe is now a new type of constitution, However, may I point out the fact that the procedure in ratifying this constitution was illegal, unconstitu- tional( if possible) and therefore our supposedly new document is null and void. At the ratification, the freshman, present at that daily assembly meet- ing, were not allowed to vote. Ac· cording to the old rules of the stu- dent body, f1eshman are not given the privilege of the floor but \all students have the right to vote.\ Since a majority of those p1esent at any regular student body meeting is necessary to ratify an amend- ment, and since freshmen present at the ratification of the new con- e:titution had no voice in the matter, the new constitution is not valid. I recommend that the present Student Council examine their old constitution thoroughly before they attempt to put a new one into effect. Julius J. Bundgus, \38. BLOCK U DINNER REPORT A deficit of $55.60 was shown in a financial report of this year's Block \U:\. Dinner recently submitted by Wxlham H. Hawkes, Chairman of the Terrace Council. The affair was held March 30 with Stanley Wood- ward, Sports Editor of the New York Herald Tribune as principal speaker. The complete report fol- lows: Exrwnses: 3~5 dhmE>rB rnrlered at $.90 ................ $~92.5(1 Le~H :-:alvagt' \'alue ou ditlllel'~ not Ol'f]Ptttd 12.50 Tntal -·--·-···-··. l'rinting--iiUO tid<~te .. $ 3.50 :~so progrnm~ . . . . . . . 12.00 Total ........... . Tra vehng rxveuses .. Total f•xpen~e~ .. B:ei'Piptl-l: $~Sfl.fl( l:i.50 10.00 $:ln5.r.o TlPl{ets \ol<l ((1 $1.10 A movement h!ls been started at COLGATE to pro-.- to fratemilies ...... $171.60 vide for a compulsory Wasserman test as a part of the lo• neutral\ . . . . . . . . . 27.50 entrance examination. The student council has . to A thletir llepnrt- adopted the plan, and wishes to exclude all appli- ment and guests.· 26.40 I • . lo alumni . . . .. . . . . . 17.60 cants proving to be syphi xt1c. * * • ROCHESTER \swing\ enthusiasts have 1 un into the long arm of the law. The City Council has drawn up an mdinance that n-o jam sessions can be held on Sundays. So sponsors of the jam sessions have rhanged its name to \Swing Symphony\ and are flght- lllJ; the ctty futher s. Tntl'll ........••.. $.20 <'harge fot• ex- pen~-es nn t if'l<ets to Halt\\ Hom~t> Dine!·~ .. . Tnlnl l'Pt'Pipts· ..... . Defieit .......... . $2·13.10 6.80 $2 !9.50 305.50 $ us.r.o We'll call for your trunks and hags without -ext:ra charge in all cities and principal towns-forward them by fast express train- deliver them at rates as sweet and low as a croon. And you can express collet·t, you know, if your fund-s are low. Con- venient? One hundred pel\ cent, and you take y()ur train free from baggage bother. When you return to college, ship back by tb.e same eco· nomical ronte, and your baggage will be delivered promptly. Special tags and labels-t:hey're by far the be.st to use- free for t:he asking. Cor. WALL & liBERTY STS., 'PHOI\IE 4-!il>l2 DEPOT OFFICE: N.Y. C. STATION, PHONE 4-85.12 SCHENECTADY, N. Y. W ABOUt YOIJ\t \.AUMDil'C '! ••• AND KO <1-bac:l< service that We've a fast, home-an A k our agent far dymon•Y· 1 saves you rea tf man to know. . He's o goo information. NATION- WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE How many of these Questions can you Answer? l. What is the shortest time element an engineer has to deal with? 2. How quickly oan an 8000 H.P. slo-w-speed steel mill motor be changed from full speed ahead to full speed reverse? 3. What is th.e moot powerful Diesel-electric loc1>motive in use today? What is its horsepower-1 4. The purchase and development of -what patents. by whom, furnished the sta11t of our present day universal availability of electricity? 5. What are the lumens per watt of (a) :a Mazda -lam]>' (b) a mercury lamp (c) a Neon lamp? 6. What is the De-ion prinsiple of arc control? 2. Who discovered it? s. 9. What is a \Spencer Disc?\ The new streamlined•streetcars ate called \l?.C;c.i•· cars in th.e industry. What do these lettets stand for? 10 •. What initials, which ·in the United Stoates mean simply one of many lJ. S. broadcasting statio-:ns, form the Vlioi\d for \broadcasting\ in th.e Eskimo language? ANSWERS WILL BE FOUND OW PAGE 4 Thr Sla1 It \I' when onstral lege l place I Thre play '1 teams ent st outfits gagem Ve,rmo Colg its w Army initial squad day's • Alexan lege oJ player; o'c:lock baseba ford, f ander Whil travels ken fo the go The Ia ously : inside of -the golfme forth, fined match( the otl Colg: hit by Jack ' ankle agaias· out fm Howev Maroo1 opposii dashes tine c cock x agains· John so will sprint~ sent a Game1 But C upon to helt Old f: and G place events. l Ha.vt powerJ men h tories and M gins. who y first t• Al M:o but. Well ex curs player the F< son rr all lilt same showe' final < Coach plete staff. Stev in fou and l umn Union Chuck start : Henr~ de fen~ and < positi1 Paul, and A sive Hark1 AJ B Wells Halpe cover Mm Kapp. Phi I Neub Sigrm TuE AJphs Sigml 7:11) Delta Phi. Sp Th< must tomo: their roun< pletet 7. TUI Alph: Kap~ we 37; s 11; f Th 10: I Thet:

_,._ oncert col- as fair is day fea- Fred- an above time this see- are n ter- hap- praise sung by the which the art of br-oad, spirit which in- blunt- was the she pted a Cald- she music of be- t very to THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 29, 1938 Three Home Tilts Slated Tomorrow T1·a:ck, Baseball, Tennis Program Begins 12:30; Lacrosse, Golf A way One Win, Two Defeats For Teams In 2 Days With Chet Ro·binson doing yeo- rna,n work on the mound, the Union varsity base ba;ll team rallied its forces yesterday afternoon and, looked 'like a championship club SPORil-EMYTH by Jerry Smith • in defe-ating the Middlebury Col-: 11~~==~~===~:!~==1~~~~~~~~~=====::=~~:!:! 'lege nine, 3 to 1, in Vermont yes- !.! terday. 'I'he victory came on the Modesty often is one's most among athletes . , . \My fatigue It will be a parade of states heels of a st~nning 19 to 8 setback difficult accomplishment . . . graphs indicate a time of 4:01.6 when the long-awaited mass dem- ·in the season opener Wednesday but when someone whose ac- is thP abs()lute- limit of hum~n onstrations :by the five Union Col- Robinso-n twirled the full route, tions really deserve publicity, performa.nce ·in a one-rmle lege Spring Sports teams take holding -Middlebury hitless .for the hldes his light Wide!\ a bushel, race,\ Hamilton has stated · · • place tomorrow afternoon. -first five innings. The home squad well, that's where WP> ji.ImJ• in... but om· ·own Bill Ketz sa.untEJI'S Three Garnet varsity squads will came to life for a brief spell in forth with his own ideas about play ·host here. to intercollegiate the nin.th frame. Take 0ur own Nels Nitchman, the subjEll!t .. , Bill belle\\'es teams each representing a differ- Agaln.st Vermo.nt, Union sprang e.g. , . , how many ·of ycu know nothing definite cart be said· ent state. Meanwhile, two Union into a short\lived lead with a f.ive · that Nels, ::;ince hi::; appointment limits of human endeavu1• ·ha1·e outfits wi:Jl leave this state for -en- run attack in the second inning, here as athletic coach several year-:> been set for 50 years now !Uld gagements in New Jersey and only to have Vermont retaliate ago, has delivered some 65 taiks records have been broken r.aJI- Ve,rmont. with three fiv-e-run splurges in a and lectures befm e alumni groups,· idl:v • , , he cannot see ·how Colgate Unlver•s·ity, rested after row. Fred Patrie featured with a civic organizations, church groups, anyone cart predict ... some- its unsuccessful ·skirmish wit.h ·home run, athletic banquets, high school as- one may pop up, able to move Army last week, will provide the Though Captain Fritz Hawley semblies and miscellaneous? . . . with le~s energy and bring out Initial season test f0r the track and Marv Dwore ran their doubles three times to a:iumni in Albany less lactic acid ... Incidentally, squad in a meet that opens the winning streak to 11 straight, and Schenectady, twice in Glens Dr. Cloi\\C and Ketz are plan- day's calendar at lZ:30 o'clock o:n Union's tennis team bowed to su- Falls, once in BinghamtoN and. ning to conduct sugar tests on Alexander Field. Middlebury Col- perior .Syracuse netmen, 7 to 2 N. Y. C .... to Rotary clubs in the x-cmrntry runners next ;Fall lege of Vermont affords· the tennis Wednesday afternoon in Its first Amsterdam, CobleskiU, Coxsackie, during various stages of a prac• players their second match at 2:3{) match. Tominy Ralston registered Schtdy and Scotia; Beukendaal tice race , , , they have been o'clock, follo-wed by the 3 o'clock the sol'e win in the singles. Lodge in Scotia; Scht dy Kiwanis, Jllanning general work on these basebacll game between .the Haver- l'nlon- All I{ H 1'0 A E Schtdy Lions, Schtdy Chamber of lines in the past . . , but at ford, Pa. and Union nines on Alex- •lyers, ~h · · · · · · · · · · · 4 1 0 5 ·• ° Commerce, Schtdy Dental Study last they hope to do actual ex- . ld Uamet, :llo · · · • · · · · · · 1 ·I ., 0 1 1 Club,· and Schtdy Elks; and Amster- perimentation and testing .. · ander Fie . Thomas, ilf ....... , . . 1 o u r 11 u While the varsity lacrosse ten I<'el<lman, er . . . . . . . . . :l 1 1 3 o u dam Older Men YMCA Conference, Monday p. rn. at 8 : 3 o, at the 'Troy travels to Stevens Tech in Hobo- Patrie, •s .. .. .. .. .. . :l '' '' 1 1 ·• Mohawk Valley Towns Assn ... in At morv, Fred Peny and Ellsworth ken fol , r'ts second road encounter, C'an, \\ .... , ....... 1 tJ 0 u 0 0 Schtdy, the Emmanuel Baptist, Tab-. o • Wylie rf ·• ·• I u 1 u Vines are ~oing to resume theu h If tf 't · d M'ddl b ' · .. .. .. .. .. .. ernacle Baptist. and First Presby- ~ t e go au 1 Inva -es ' e ury. Bu\hanan Ih . . . . . . o o o o u •J pro tennis battles . , , Tuesday's The latter ·contest has been anld- Bn;H'kner, 1b-rf . . . . 1 1 u 1 terian Young People:s socities and pspers carried a story that Perry ously awaited, since it will give a.n · l'almer, c • • . . . . . . . . . u 1 u U Sunday School Basketball loop . . . was to supervise Canada's Davis l 'nside view on the actual caHbel' Yunil·h, \ · · · · · · · · · · · 11 u ·U 0 0 sport festivities before .Averill Park . Hohinson p u u u 1 9 Cup forces against Japan Ill zone of the J.inksmen. Several promising Hanson 'p • ·' • • • · • • u u u o ii H. S., Ballston A. C., Sehtdy Boys' play, but the Englishman denied golfmen are expcted to blossom z-Enzer' ..• ::::::::: .' 1 u u u u u Club, Gloversville H. S,, Greene this . . . the outstanding junior forth, although it will be a con- Totals ............. ~9 8 g 18 li 6 County H. S. League, Jennings Bas- tennis star of this district will be h Th ·t M'ddl b Verrnor1t- All n II 1'0 A E k tb II Team of Schtdy City loop fined s ow. e wo I e. ury Xi<'hoh;un, rf , . . . . . . 1 ·• :l 1 u 0 e a . . • awarded year's playing member- matches are foursomes, whereas .·'IcDorJuu\ll ~l! . . . . . 3 1 ., ., 0 Johnston H. S., Lebanon Springs h' . a local club The AI the others are with six players. i(imball, \u :- ... :.... ;, u s u Centmi School, Mohawk Country ~aiy mSenators of 'the· Easter~ te St Herry, 3b ... .. .. .. .. ·• ·• 1 1 o Day School, Northville H. S., Nott League open their minor league Colga rong Sunderland, rf . . . . . . 5 ·• ·• 1 U U Terrace H. S., Scohanna Valley H. h · 5 3 1 I 1 3 baseball season at home this aft· Colgate trackmen will be hard B~aue enun, \\ · · · · · s. League, South Champlain Valley 1\ 'olt'n ·In· H \ .J u u o ernoon at Hawkins Stadium . . . hit by the absence of Co-captain ~ ''' ·' · · · ·' · \ H. S. League, Tri-County H. S. Jack Thomas who fractured his 1 ,,·~· 1 8 mareit 1 ,'' .. 11 • •. •• •. •• ·.:: •• •• •• 4 5 ., 0 t ~ League at St. Johnsville, Troy H. S., Johnny M<>ir, pronounced moy-r, ~ · wants to ·become a G-man; he's ap- ankle kl the polevault event Total. ............. 36 19 13 :.!1 12 ~ Van Antwerp School, Vincentian plied to the F. B. I. for informa· agaiast Army, and· who will he z-Halt<>rt for Buehanau 111 7 th. Institute, Vocational H. S. in out for the remainder ()f the year. t:~~~~~m·t· ·:::::::::::::::::8;~ J'f~ ~=~~ Schtdy, and at Smukier testimonial tion · · · However·, Bill Cook, the star !fennis Summaries football dinner . , . twice at Mo- So as not to lose out on thP Maroon sprinter, swept aside all Singles: Dixon, Syracuse, de- hawk Country Day School chapels, original investment of $3,00fl, the opposition in the 100 and 220-yard · feated Hawley, Union, €-1, €-4; once at Delanson, Heatley, Mont Athletic Department is grad- dashes; Co-captain Drew Valen- Rogers, Syracuse, defeated Dwore, Pleasant, Schtdy Vocational, and ually having the tennis co·tut tine captured the 440 and Han- Union, 12-14, e-2, 6-2; Belden, Syra- N. Y. State Vocational School at surfaces gone over with ne1v cock ran away with the two-mile cuse, defeated Rathbun, Union, West Coxsackie ... misc. includes clay ... -thee proposal was offer- against the Cadets. 6-2, 6-2; Slavin, Syracuse, defeated Hi-Y groups at Mont Pleasant, Nott ed and accepted by the A. D. John Krull pulred a muscle and carr, Union, 7-5, 7-5; Ralston, Ter1•ace, Scotia and Woestina, twice that the l!a.ckstop fences be re- so will not start for Union In the Uaion, defeated Silverman, .Syra- to Johnsonville C. C. Corps and Mo- paired on the bottom, thus p~·e- sprints. John Quinlan will be ab- cuse, 6~3, 6-3; Stearns, Syracuse, hawk Mills baseball team, to venting flails from rolling out sent along with Tillar Shugg, the defeated Murphy, Union, 6-4, 6-3. Oneida School Scout Troop, Schtdy ... Here's one for R. P. I., In Garnet's outstanding quarter-miiel', Doubles: Belden anq Slavin, Baseball School, Phi Sigma Delta 1·eturn fo1· its recent rumor re- But Coach Bill Ketz is counting Syracuse, defeated Carr and Hal- Founder's Day and Schtdy YMCA garding 'Union: we have it on upon his new find, Bob Hayner, ston, Union, 6-2, 6-4; Berkman and Buddy group , , . quite an impres- inside col!tacts that Bill Eddy, to help Union garner some poit1ts. Silvez·man, Syracuse, defeated Mor- sive accomplishment, what say . , incumbent track mentor at Nott Old faithfuis, Captain Win Day rison and Ralston, 4-6, 6-1, €-2; Terrace H. S., may coach cross- and Grant Smith are expected to Dwore and Hawley, Union, defeated Tracl> Coach Butus Hamilton country at Troy next Fall , , • place high in their respective Dixon a.nd Rogers, 4-6, 6-2, 6-3. of the University of Califm•nia Blind :men tell no tales, but events. I:niun- AB H H J•o A E has been studying the body's they're adding baseball to those 'fltomao 1r 5 u I 0 I> capacity to c~mbat lactic acid sports tllEJ•· are rnasterino-, via a Havel \'ord Has 3 Wins o, · · • \ .. \ .. • v , ,., • Barnett, 3h ........... 4 1 1 U o poisining, one reason for fatigue most novel plan , . Haverford wil bring the most Feldman. d ......... · 4 ° 0 8 ~ ne-xt Friday , . , f I b b II tam t he Dutch Patrie, 1~ ........... 3 0 ll power U ase a. e - Jlroekller, rl. .... , . . '' 0 II !~ 0 men have yet faced, boasting vic- 1 _·ar!', \\· , ............ ·• u 11 o o tories over Lehigh, Stevens Tech Pa!mel', c .•.•.• , , ..... 4 1 u 1u 3 o Page Three Frosh N etmen Practice Old Union Fourteen freshman tennis aspir- ants wHl be competing in an in- formal court tournament the re- mainder of this week and next week, so that Coach Achilles ':Viii Year in and yeaz out Union meets be able to obtain a first-hand vre.w nearly the same set of opponents of the yearling material availa'f)le but, in looking thr·ough the rec- this year. ords, we ·find quite a few contests Two matches have been sched' with institutions that we think of uied to date, one with Williston now as \name schools\ in athletics. · Acad·emy at East Hampt0n .. Mass. In tennis Cornell was scheduled on May 7 and the second with in 1908, '09, and '10. After being Pawling School her·e on May 21. •rained out in the firBt two matches Included among th0se now play- the third resulted in a 3 to 3 tie. inu- in the tourney are Joseph Michigan defeated us in 1909 5 to 1, Schattan and J.ames Shaw; Phil and we tmned the tables in 1911, 4 Potter• and Walt Swart; James to 2, after the contest in 1910 had Smith and Arthur King; Lelan-d I'<\sulted. in a 3 to 3 deadlock. The Beik and James Twining; Edward Ma-ize and Blue also was scheduled Miller an·d William Noonan; Irv In t920, but r·ain forced .a cancella- Shoor and Warren Kimmey; and tion. Brown aefeated us in 19·12 by Robert Herman and Warren Knox .. a 5 to 1 score and the University of Pennsylvania trounced the Ga.r- net 8 to 1 in 1931. We met Prince- ton in 1930 and 1932 with defeats of 9 to 0 and 8 to 1 being- charged against us. In track the most interesting meet was the one against Caiifor·nia in 1895. The meet was held i.n Albany at Ridgefield Park and, though we were d·efeated 39 to 59, it \'\'as a day of individual triumph for the great Charles l{ilpatrick of the class of '98. He won the 440, 88(), and mile mns. His time in the qua1ter, 50.2 seconds, wa.; consider ably undez· the intercollegiate record of 51.5, The .Dutchmen have also faced Lehigh, defeating them twice; Manhattan four times, winning three of the en- counters; and breaking even with Swarthmore in two contests. In baseball Cornell has been met in 10 games over a period of eight years extending from 1880 to 1903. We managed to win two .games, one in 1880 by a 9 to 3 score and the other in 1884, 7 to 1. NEW YORK LAW SCHOOL Eo;;tablishE\!l !S!Jl REGISTRATION NOW OrEN FOR 1938-39 Morning Course Tbree Years · Aftet•noon and Evtr ning Courses Four Y~ars ALL COURSES LEAD TO DEGREE OF LL.E. Regi;;trar, New York Law School, TH.l: DWWHT JIETIIO]) OF I :oiS'l'ltl'!''riOS Cornmittt>d to tht· fH 11i1' .Y (d ~mall da~se:-; so that t'aclt ~tudent ma .. y rt-\C'th·e edt:'- quatP pPrsona.l atte11tinn and II!::O:.tl'Ul'tiUil. i\or furthPr informllt,Jon a.tltlrt•sN: 63 l'ark Huw, ::\e\~ Ycrrk. X. Y. or telt-IJhtliH~·. H Ef:'krnan 2-255~ mmm;mmm;mmm '\\\'\\\'\'\\\\\\m!li Iii !,I.!, !,_~-~,~.,: m iii \DopPeEviR·:;i~~mb!\ ~ Ill c;~~~t~~~:.. ~ rfi:m::::::::::::::m::::::m:::::::::::::::m:::m::m:::m::H! or $5.00 to $12.()0 STYLES for STUDENTS FACULTY a pair Serving Old Union for 45 years Family Shoe Store-245 State St. PATTON & HALL, Incorporated and Moravian by comfortable mar- Myers, 2b. , . , •....... 4 I 1 5 2 0 gins. Captain Ham Welbourne, RoiJinRon, Jl, •••• , ••.• 3 o 0 0 1 0 Who Yl 'elded but er'g·ht ht'ts t'n the Total• · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 31 • 3 3 27 A~ E 1 3lldtlle bUl'Y- All H H PO • first two games, is expected to face Hogan, If. . . . • . . . . . . . ;; o o 0 o AI Mould in the- latter's season de- Kirl<, 3b •..•..••. , •.•• 'I o 1 u o but. Derrico, 1'1>. , •••• , • • • . 4 II 0 0 6 Buy ICE CREAM With Confidence r-·--------------------------------------------------------------1 I I ! I W ell-rested after their two-day Anderson. cf. • • · • · · · ~ 1 2 0 I Lins, ss .............. 4 o 2 0 2 excursion into Vermont, Un on cook, rf. ............ , 3 u u o o players will be at top form against Hawes, 2il. , . . • . , . . . . o· ll 0 1 the Ford nine. Coach \Duke\ Nel- f,~~·t:~~o~l, · 1 ;: ·:::::::: ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ son may shift his lineup, but in z-Kister ......... , . . . . o 1 u o 0 all liltelihood will depend upon the zz-Arnold ............ 1 u I o o 0 same combination. Haverford Totals .............. 33 1 7 27 1 5 showed its greatest strength in the z-Batted for Cook in ~th final contest; should it uprise her-e, zz-Balted for Hawes in !lth th Union ..... , ... , ......... 00•1 000 ufr2-3 Coach Nelson will have e com- ~iiddlelJury .............. ooo ooo 0111-1 plete services of his entire mound staff. Stevens Experienced DeWitt's Lunch Room and Tap Room FRO JOY Stevens Tech has participated in four lacrosse encounters to date and has broken the victory col- umn in the majority of matches. Union's starting lineup is illl doubt. Chuck Passe or Jack Coleman may start at point, and Merlin Fay and We Serve Better Food ·f1lr Better Health 118-1~!1 JAY ST. ICE CREAM Henry Clay or Al Borden on the def.ense. Howie Thompson, a fa~t and clever player, will ta.ke hts position at center. Captam Joe Paul, Doug Blue, Len1t1ie Schult!: and Art Lawrence will have offen- sive duties. In reserve, Co~ch Harkness will have Sumner Insh, A! Borden, Stan Mayersohn, Ed Wells, Mike Stillman an.d Ar~y Halpern. Art Breymaier Will aga.rn cover the goal. ---0·---- INTRAMURAL$ Softball Schedule Monday, May 2, 12:45 o'clock~­ Kappa Sigma vs. Kappa Nu; Alplia Phi Delta vs. Chi Psi. 7:15 p. m.-:- Neutrals vs. Theta Delta Chi; Ph1 Sigma Delta vs. Phi Gamma Delta. Tuesday, May 3, 12:45 o'c~ock-: Alpha Delta Phi vs. Delta Phi; P~1 Sigma Kappa vs. Beta Theta Fr: 7:15 p. m.-Soutb College vs .. Ph1 Delta Theta; Sigma Chi vs. Sigma Phi. Spring 'l'e:nnis and Horseshoes The first round of each flight must be completed by or before tomorrow. Opponents must arrange ' tbeii· own matches. The second round of each flight must be c~l)l­ pleted on or before Saturday, M:ay 7. Softball &esnlts · 1 , Tuesday, ,A:pril 26-Lambda Ch.i · : Alpha, 15; Phi Sigma Kappa 4., Kappa Alpha, 18; Sig~a Chi, 3. . . Wednesday, April 27~Delta, Phi, 37• South College, 5. Kappa S1gma, 11: Beta Theta Pi, 10. . Thursday April. 2~Sigma Phl, 10 . Phi Sigma Delta, S. Phi Delta Theta, 15; Delta Upsilon, 13. Opp. New City HaJI HALE HOUSE OFFERS • • • Pleasant Atmosphere • Courteous Service • Thrifty and Convenient Dining Facilities • Refreshments a Ia carte i As Much A I l I j Rendezvous For j I 1 I U N·I·O·N MEN As I i 1 ! The \TERRACE\ itself \ I I I I • • • • I : : ! : . • • I I • • ' ' I 9 ' ' I I t • • t I ' i l • • • • I I I THE vAN CURLER I 1 TAP RooM 1 ' . • • L---------------·------~-----------------·~-------------------·~-t

Page Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRlDAY, APRIL 29, 1938 Seniors Honored ·On Class Day ~t·u<.l'ent in t.h•P Sl}phomore t•laH:::; who Jm~ t>xt·etlt>tl i11 Pil')'Hh·~. Awr.u·cted to ·Ert>rt-tt ~larl\ :Jraftu:t·. Vtul tlnlt>ll .l 1 r-izt•, r(lr 'l'lll~ ntt\BtLu;;•r t·1t Lht' frel\'hlncw t·.1a~~ 'fut· eX·r.t. .. llt•Jlee ill 'l~~llg·l ish t'UllllttJ:;i l·IUII. .\\\ ardt>tl 1't1 ).ll'i t.n11 1lymau 'SL·lJ.:!lHnau. Delta Upsilon Gives Hadem Hop Tomorrow Li je Passes Presented Tu Band Officials Debaters C~nven ticn Here 1 Continued from Page ll N.Y. U.,. Houghton College, Keuka College, Col!eg:e ·of Mount 'St. Yin- cent, Naz:aretll .C1>llege, N. Y. State College for Teachets, Niagara Busi'- ness Co'llege, Niagara University, University of Rochester, St. Law- rence· Uni versily, C0llege of St. Ro.Se, .Syr-acuse Un.iver·sity, Union 'Colleg-e; and Wells CoJ.lege. \Y.nrm•t• J'r.]z~;~, .fur tht\· :-;eitiut taking L:l<tlll a:-; a. ·majt·>'l' w·h~~;J hri:-; n~1 ~dl.t'ti ·the highest sl·a ltttl>Hg 111 l.!w fll'l fonna.m•t• l,Jr t·olleght-lt.> t~'ll't.lt\'~. .\ \\'HFdt~<l l·o Carl Hit•.lmrtl Tra:II·m:tu. FI'NH•h l:.tu1 ei'H!tll~llt 'Prize, ~·.vt'H hy th~ Frendt ~I l'lli~Wy ol' }i\'or~lgll Afl'air~ ttl the U]Jil~rr-ht~~nta 11 ~' ith tht• IJt>:-.t l'!:t'Ul'tl i11 tlw ~lltdy of :[-i'l't-Hc•h lan- bUHKt> alltl ·IHt~lT\ilUr'e. Awnl'dt<t·l to Loui~ Ed '\H \1 ·l'i.t·,<;t:, 1 Continued from Page l·l and Mrs. Charles Stubing, and Mr. and· Mt s. Or in J. Farrell. 'Fe night, before the Glee OJ ub Cbncert and Da-nce at the Moha-wk. G<Jlf Club, Delta Upsilon will hold a fl>r.mal d·inner party in honor of tlle tr·ustees of the fraternity and their wives. Wee·kend guest• of the fl·aternity are the Misses Ruth Mettlach, · -..vestfleld, N. J.; 1..inda Bock, Sche· nectady: Hilda Rt own and Char- lotte Long lois, Plattsbur-g; Eliza- beth Stone, New Yor•k; June Fuller, In appreciation of ,the ,;e:l v- ices r•endered by .the •Cc.lle~e Band during t-he past foatbaU .;;eason,. and in an attempt to s,pur them to ·better effor,ts, the Department of Athletics will this year present Life P.asses to athletic .events .to the Stu- dent Leader• a•nd Ma·nagel!'. The Department wilr alw· pre- sent a Life Pass to Prof~ssor Charles T. Male, Di'l'ector o.f' the Band. NOTICE Yoll will lind yl)ur C<)<Illplete HWltlng (!)ut:fit .Reasoliably l:'deed at T~he l>lvi~JUil ur J;;ugia~;>~rillg' Uraw-' · ing.of tht' ~(Whty .ftW .the ·lJJUIUt·ltiUll O[ 'E.iJ;:illt'l .. t'ittg ,f•: •• uctt.tl<lll, ~:U· 1 'P awaJ•cit-: tu h\ll llklllbt•r::. uf the SLJJ·Jhonlnre t·la.::-.s hr t'Xl't•tiPIH~t> .111 th\a\\lug. lq !,he att- lJU:I•l ('OillJII':'tJ'liNIJ!• l'.OJidUt'lell !\Jy ! lit' di- \'i: ion. f• H~:-:t ·1 'la<'l\ :f't'tl it.il:a·lt' a.\\ a.rclt:>l' to 'Jlaru:tl N~•nald \\'·l•l•:-. il'l'., <'lid a St'<'t•Hd· •1-'l<w•· l\~t··t.lit~atv uwunte l to l~t. uil\' Jamt>::-; l '.l H. Jr. Garden City; Fl'orence Jackson,· All. Ft·eshmen intere-.;tcd >in f\rm- 1 R-ussell .Sage; Ksy Waters, RussuH. iug an unofficial' Freshmam 1 Gulf 137. State St. THiE HIIB 'l:>lione !l-7 SJ6 tContinued from Page ll <f,---- ~~~~}_t'·:·i~~t,Jr~-,\.~'lf:~ll~tl~ ~-~~:t·~~~~;~l~-- •·I Fn·tt•h. ·J·.,··:,',',•,·,';;,··,·, ',',~. lht· f~tn· a!!':- .. \·\'\;LJ'•Ied t•' l\lllt>.,f PJI.t.:l'. tut !Ita! ~··nH•l \\-tJH 11. 1 .... - ~br•t;tn 1 =\!t\\\11 t-.IJt :.:,t,;·.~.,,..., 1 dt·\t·hq.r 1 : 1 ·ut , 1 ..., ,, Uidtmoutl .l)rl.~::· in 'lu.,inll \J)(II't•du· lll;llt .ttul .t :-• lt••l.u •IU!Illg l11 ... •••ilt.ht' f.iuJI, f••l ~ '' • llxttt ,. 111 th· ,.,,Ul:-t• Ill .\i•· t·••Ul'!->t• •. \\·:Udt-.d t•• t'h, tit·:- H Jl••t•l- qtt•t'tati\ll n.f .\'lllf.tt .. \\\;lldt•d 1-cJ l>.tdtl l-i.t'l . F.tll\ :tttd -'1 \'U Hit~ H .. oht•rt 4;, C-1'':\(•alt• Pt\it:l' t:ot tlw c-It!- ('tU:l ~t·.ltu.r; 'Prilt\ in Binlo~). 1 1.''~' Un- dt>ttl' t;.ddrtg l•.itll!t a:-- •!Itt' ,, 11.:-o ·tn.tJ•I! nttpt·t-dtu ... ~ :--llldt·.ut \\ho :-ubmtt:- tl~t· Jatt~U;q.,:t·:.. \\ l1u tl.t!-' h;ttl !Itt ltt,..;·ltt·\t !It'-.! i\ l .rlot>ll it•(HHI 1111 :1 ldcdt~gj,·; 'l :-Ub- :-.la.tldl'll,l!. cilllllli-.: hit-- lt:lJJ )t•:tl·!-- 111 tnl- Jt·t·t .\\\:ll·tl,·cl [11 l' .. ul l~!;nl\:-.tot:'(• \t·gt· .• \\\;,.,d.~d t,, t'.ttl J·t Tr :lltt!l.\.lt n\'''h Elia ... Pt•f,...,nt•r· l'l\i/.t> I• q t lt:tt :--t·tw 11 (' • 1 \•I .. , 1 ) •• • I . . · . ~ 111!1!--1 ptrdtllt._·ltl IIi t:t•llll:t-ltil ._, 1 ,J.. Ul .(.Ull~ lilt II (oP1lll1lll, lctJ.t).· \\\ •tdt·d 1 ,, 4.'· I p 'I' . 1 . · ll !t •. tt>llt·rt•·p 1n •·•(•I'III.lll. .\l•.:trdttl tu Ht>l- . l;ullma.n ( lt;~~lo::ul Pr~i~t:t~ll~·~';.~' llt.tl ~tit· lltld .\aJ·t•IJ ~tt;qtt·t· .. '\' \\!J,. h .... ;t.t!:tllt•·d !111· ln~t,, .. , .. t, 11 ~''· Ftding· .11. smith Pl.izt• In tll..,tcll'), in~ Ht lht· I·~t\.·t ... trtn nf ! .. tll~:·tt:tL:•· • 1 . 11 d l••r tl1t• \'t•ntut \~i111 ~lthrnit:-. lht· hl·~i Ltkt:tlllrt· .\\\,IJ•\1.<1 l•t \~.111 1: Tt.dt- tl!t·:--,~ lit 11'1:-lttl:_'l. .\\\;ttt.lt·d to \'natlt•:-. (.11,\.11 lkll!~' llttll:-ot· •• Jr PullU!tLJI E·tH~·hll't•l'illR' Pl'il:''• f,l t-Ill Sh•rllit>hl l 1 hilu,ophh~nl fl.l'i;..;t·~ fu1 .. l·lttjt! 111 'It• 1 1 i\ t:--t\ll •·I J·:~o~..::tt'l'• ttllt..: t'llt· -..tu•lt\Itl \\-b, --uht1db tlll' 1···~1 , 111 gl \\It•• ha:-- att'.\tltt''l Ill•· lngll(':-.t :--t:tnd:tt~ !t,tl ('~!-<a~ 111 phlltl:o-IIJth:-o .. \,\,ttdt·.d 1 11 .\\\,i.ldt•tl Itt l,tHillld :\1. Eo\';t.JI' l'aul SLtl\111 c:oldht•Jg. Hidunoud \Pdt.t• In l'in~ \tt .... tu1 t:\· J:amt•, Ht>ur} Turnhu!I Pr-l:.iP~ tnr tilt .. CLOVERLAND CREAME~RY FOR PROMPT SERVICE Phone ~-S104 919 State St. .. :;; ·•· .. '.(:{.:'.·.' .. ·· .. ' .. :·_':.· .. .... ::} 1. The shortest time element in engineering is probably that encountered in short wave radio tube design- an allowance of ·I , 600,000,000 second for an electron to travel a fraction of an inch. 2. 3. 4. s. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. A Westinghouse steel mill motor of this type can be reversed from full ahead to full back in 5 seconds. The Westinghouse-equipped streamliner \City of San Francisco\ is one of the two most powerful Diesel-electric locomotives in use at this writing- 5400 horsepower. Three years ago, the most powerful tr11in of this type was powered by a 120() H.P. unit. The purchase and development of the Gaulard & Gibbs transformer patents by Geo. Westinghouse in 1885 led to our present widespread use of alternating current, the foundation of electricity's universal availability. The lumens pel\ wott of various types of electric lights a!\e a~ foll.ows: Ia) Mazda lamp, (60 watt size1 13.9 lumens per watt; ib) mercury lamp (250 watt size} 30 lumens per watt; (c) Neon lamp, !average tube and gas) approximately 19 lumens per 'I.Vatt. The \De·ion\ principle is one which breaks arcs into segments by passing them through a series of grids. It has completely revolutionized the construction of such arc-carrying d~vices as lightning arresters, circuit breakers, motor starters, and safety switches. The \De-ion\ prinriple was discovered ~nd put into practire by Dr. Joseph Slepian of the Westinghouse Research Laboratories. The \Spencer Disc\ is a type of thermostat whirh acts on the bi-metallic ~xpansion and contraction principle to give a rifle-like make-and-breRk in elec- trical contacts. Tt is an exclusive Westinghouse electric iron feature, and is also used to protect Westinghouse motors from heat damage. The initials \P.C.C.\ in connection with the new streamlined streetcars stand for \Presidents' Con- ference Committee,\ a committee appointed by the American Transit Association to d~si~n these cars. By invitation, Westinghouse engineers worked with this committee, and more than half of the cars of this type now in use are completely equipped with Westinghouse electrical apparRtus. The initials KDKA, representing the \Vestinghouse pioneer station at Pittsburgh, Pn., mean \broadcast· ing\ m the Eskimo tongue. Watch for another interesting \Electl'kal Ouiz\ in a coming issue of your college publication. Elect;icity is the ,greatest srngle force in this modern a>e, Learn more about 1t · ·and about the companies, lik~ Westinghouse, that put it to doing the world's work. Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co. Pittsburgh, Pa. --- --0---- --- - Sage: Jean Strcibert, 'Skidmore; ~· ~·e~a~m~·~,h~, ~ou~ld~· ~~~·e~p~o~t~t;t~o~Ha~~lt~: \A~. ~:r~·t~t~-n~e~r~~~~~~~~~~S~~~~~~~ Evelyn Connolly, Schenectady: Mar-. \ (at et Bur de kin, Syracuse: Alice Festival Pittn~-> Announced . ~arkle~J, Skidmor•e:. Betty Ballan- H ue, Sca:t \dale·; Ruth Jenson, Skill-: 1 n1.c1 e.: I!>or·othy Pr·enti~s. Baltimor.e .. \The School of :Scanua:,\ Richard 1 ~l'd. ;. Evely-n Neigh, Skidmm e; ·Mar·\·· Br im;ley Sherida. n:s rollicking com-~ jmie Mable, Albany; Alice Garland, edy, will be pJ,oduced by the Me- N'.ew York: Roberta Skilling, Bronx- hawk llr:ama :l:<~estival next sum· , ville; Rita Martin, Skidmme: Ann, mer, it was a\nncnmced today. Canning, Newport, R. I. 118 'S. FE.RRY Si. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. \VE GUERRA PH.AR·MACY maJGS, PR.,SCRI·PTIONS: SUNDRIES S~~!:Vl<~ SA:ND'Wl!CHES ANU LIGHT LUNCHES UNION COLLEGE STAfiONERY' 29c ·G()O Union St. cor. Barre~ PhOtne 2-9419 ·633 State St. Thi\U to ~HONE, 6-3456 !11oft Terl\ace CHESTERFIELD and PAUL WHITEMAN bring you preview O()ast-toacoast broadca;t from New Yorh '39 World~s Fair \Rhaps()dy in Blue\ .•. thousands of happy dancers ... a blaze of color . . , flags and costumes of every na..tion .•• Light ~fJ your Cltesterficld and JOtn us in the preview of the New York 1939 World!Js Fair. When it's Swiag time at this great opening llali it'll be Chesterfield Time a.l'l ()Ver the country .. Ai%%!i::~:::l':[®~l'Wtm for more smoldng pleaSIIre emywltere Chestetjield is the right cigarelle • .. C:opyright1~38, LIGGE1T Ill Mrnns TOBACCO Ct>, 1 Z511 VDI. ] v Jap Will At: Dt~.T: 0 I~ 'Will I 'Dr. J,apane tiona! 1 tb1>-r o.f .lapa.ne under tiona.! inEhe 1 toclay chfkirm tee- tl•:nunl turoe, n the Ja] ton.. to ucbi,, v plo:mac rnu.ch trigue Talkeu< ter:maU Galtllin is mow Un:'ited Take Japane g!O>Utld point Ne-w ' See!ti<Jl1 of his zev-ealE ent.et e( qutreli China. wlched read rr1 import tabtly- c!ttded Vla.r,. ~ nese ii' E;eve the Inl the 1>< Freder ence 1 J. Bu11 1-IO.we. '(Spe1 Cllat Bl)-()th, tecJ. to an:nual -wa..s a frs:~or Bon' self o: an<! a tiona! ch~u·_gE C~rll ( the Cf va:tsit~ sam .ar l:psilo prize t ot thE pi·ize, Bo<>1 electec Beta l erc:lse! in ret WDIH Coht i1s an wor.lt ne:xt ~ ::Bot! Se lten' his he \The1 SG\'Vil'n will b ner T in N Achiil I. :M St..anle a~d c

