1' e t e e e e '\ i l 1 l I } ~ ' i 1 :\ i I i ; .! ;I l' 1 i 'ii .{ • Geology Studer:~+ tfttStS Coumcil Trip Planned To tylee+ ~· .. Z-511 VoL LXIII., No.§ UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1939 PRICE FIVE CENTS Uean Announces N'on -(redit Air Training Course Eligible Students Requested to Meet Tomorrow Evening The possibility that Union may have an extra-curricular course in g10und and flight aviation was re- vealed by Dean Charles F. F. Garis yesterday. The letter ft om the Dean fol- lows: Sopho.mores Routed in Cane Rush, Pelt Freshmen, Win Tug of War The Sophomore armies rallied'~--------------- ·----· from a crushing defeat in the cane, The superior numbets of the rush on the plains of t·he Council. freshman told on the sophomores. 1 Field to pull the freshman farces The former were able to rush fresh through the mud and water of Hans reserves into the battle which was Groot Kill as interclass rivalry was being fought on several fronts. actively renewed Saturday. The Sheer numbers pushed the sopho- battles we>re marked by fierce hand mores over· the freshman goa·! Hne. to han.d and trench warFaTe, The final count. according to Mobilization of both armies came \Bill\ Ketz, showed the freshman in I at 1:15, the freshman corps in front possession of seven canes, the soph-1 of the Old Chapel and the sopho- omores with four. Two batt!Ps were more division in front of the Civil undecided as the sophomores pro- Engineering Building. The fresh- tested one cane in freshman hands men wet e marked by a red spot on beca.use it was passed act ass the their heacls and both sides were field to fl. yearling, who ran un- informed of the rules. The forces molested to the goal line. The other then hurried to the front. battle was a draw as the fot·ces were still fighting in the middle of Thirteen canes were placed in a the field when the time Hmit was row across the field by the neutral up. New Members Elected To Student Council In a special election held this mot ning in Daily Assembly. James W. Smith, '41 and Joseph F. Furlong, '42 were elected to be members of the Student Council. Thl> newly elected members will replace Paul Santee, for- merly of the Class of 1942, and William Ford, '41, who did not I'l'turn to college. Three men were nominated on each ballot by the Student Council. Louis Carr, '40, president, announced that those men who were named on the ballot were next in line fo1· offices in the regular elec- tion held last spring. Carr also announced that Al- f.red. Knopf, '12. was appointed as \The Idol\ tepresentative to the Council, replacing David Light, '40, who did not return this fall. Miss Doyie Completes Casting For Mountebanks' N~ew Production Speziali. Tiebout Scheduled to Play Leading Roles in November Offering Of Sheriffs •Journey•s End• After attending try-outs Friday evening and Saturday aftemoon, ;\I iss ;,\liriam Doyle, visiting director, and the members of the Executive Committee cast almost aU the characters for the l\Iountel.>anks forthcoming production \Joumey's End.\ The play, a wartime drama, will be the group's initial offering of the year and will be produced on November 17, 18 and 20. The College has been considering fot• some time the advisability of requesting the establishment on the campus of a non-credit course in ground and flight training under the Civil Aeronautics Authority. D'scu~sions have reached the point at which it would like to ascertain the interest among eligi- ble students. For this purpose a meeting will be held in the Civil Engineering Building, Room 106, on Wednesday evening, October 4, at 7:45. observers \Bill\ Ketz. \Herb\ The so.phamorcs retreated to the Houghton, Professor Russell K. heavy fortified section of the woods Hall and Joe Paul, who acted as behind the outdoor stage. There -·----------------' --~ Andrew Speziali, '42, will por- tray Captain Stanhope, the cent:al character in the drama. Ralph Tiebaut, '4, who played with Spe- ziali in \Rosmersholm\ last .sea- son, will be seen as First Lieuten- ant Osborne. Second Lieutenant Trotter will be played by Stanley Green. '43; the Colonel, by David Wilder, '40; Captain Hardy, by Everett Haeffner, '40; Private Mason by 'vV. Neil B. Loudon; the German Soldier, by Marvin Ep- stein, '43; and the Signaller, by George Sabey, '40. Hale House Looted In Unique Robbery Campus residents were shocked when it was learned yesterday tha~ vandals broke into Hale House late Saturday evening and stole sixty dollars, the receipts for that day. The money was hidden in the cigarette machine in the cloak umpires. The opposing lines wete they took up the fight again, shell- d.rawn in front of their goals and at ing the freshmen with over-t ipe the blowing of the whistle the great tomatoes. The i'reshmen returned offensives were launched. the fire with amunition which they Freshmen Lauded At Body Meeting The sophomore army, outnum- had caught. The \dum-dum\ toma- bered three to two by the freshmen, toes soon ran ~ut an<;~ the forces was divideti. into thirteen units of assembled on e1ther srde of Hans six each. These units swept across G1·oo~ Kill for a tug .of war. !he the plains and seized most of the yearlmgs were pulled mto the river Louis Carr, '40. president of the Student Council, officially wel- comed the freshman class to the Student Body at its first meeting for the current year, held yester- day morning in Old Chapel. Carr announced, for the Student Coun- cil, that due to their victor:,· in the cane rush. the freshmen would be allowed to walk on campus gras~. room. The following students will be declared ineligible: 1. All freshmen. 2. All students who have had any solo flight experience. 3. All students working under the National Youth Administration. 4. All students on Scholarship warning. 5. All students who have loans or work scholarships. G. All students who work to help defray theil· college expense' Students in none of the abov0 categories but not on the Dean'\' List will be required to chuOl:,l' this course as their only extra- curricular activity for the emir€ year. The course requires 72 hout'3 of ground instruction at the college and from 35 to 50 hours of t:ight instruction at the Schenectady airport. A fee not to exceed $40 must be paid by each partieipvtin;.: student. Most of the fee will be used to cover medical examination and required insurance. canes. The freshman forces feH on I ln several sharp tugs. them in front of their goal and The war over, the two classes Move them back sharply. Four of proceeded to the Idol .where they these units, however, were able to cheered each other, Jomed m the take their canes across the goal singing of the Alma Mater, and line within two minutes after has- staged a joint attack on down-town tilities opened. Schenectady. --------------------- Council to Hold Initial Meeting The first meeting of the Student Council for the current year will be held in Old Chapel Wednesday night at 8:30 o'clock. Louis Carr, '40, president. announced the or- der of business for the meeting. The first business scheduled for the evening is the election of an executive committee. Following this, Carr will appoint two seniors to meet with the Graduate Coun- cil at their meeting during Alumni Weekend on October 14. These men will act as representatives of the senior class until a formal elec- tion is held. Among ether business, the Coun- cil must elect a member of the Tax Committee to the Publications Board and elect a head cheer lead- er. The group is expected to ap- prove plans for the Interfraternity Ball at this time. Six dates must be listed for fu- ture Student Council meetings and a method must be set for the elec- tion of freshman class officers as well. Workshop Inaugurates New Radio Series Union College Radio Workshop will inaugurate, as its first program of the current school year, a series of weekly educational news broad- casts to be entitled, \From the Campus.\ It will bring to an inter- of the United States, including all news in an educatirmal vein, such as news of new and interesting courses, news of resear.ch and dis- coveries ·by students and profes- sors, and news of outstanding achievements by students in both curricular and extra - curricular fields. The program will be broadcast internationally by General Electric's short-wave stations WG EA (for- merly W2XAD), 15,330 kc., and WGEO <formerly W2XAFl, 9,530 kc. It wiii be heard every Thursday afternoon at 3:45-4:00, E. S. T. The Workshop will shortly resume its regular monthly series of programs about Union College, an.d will, from time .to time, also produce other programs of interest conceived by the members. It was also announced by Carr that elections for freshman class officers would be sometime next week. Procedure for the election will be determined this week by the Student Council. Can cautioned against the spnt into factions which, he said, seem:; apparent in the class of 1943. He said that the neutral meeting held last week for social purposes, was misunderstood by some to have, been a political grouping of neu- ttals against fraternity men, and that the misunderstanding has di- vided the freshman class into two opposing factions. Such a condi- tion would hurt the spirit of the forthcoming elections if continued, C1lr r said. L:)-ut 150 freshmen attended and turned in their names to members of the Sophomore Disciplinary Co:.:1:1ittee. Carr made several announce- me:J.ts to the group. He reminded all f1eshmen and sophomores who gained possession of canes in Satur- day's rush that they will be able to have them insc1·ibed with their class numerals and the date of the battle by bringing them to the Student Activities Office in Washburn Hall. Students participating mu.st be citizens of the United States, over eighteen and under twenty-five years of age on or before Septem- ber 1, 1939. and must have passed. the required medical examination,;. Each student will be required to furnh;h a statement signed b:,· himself and his .parents or guard- ian, releasing the college, the flight operator. and the Governmen: in case of pa.ssengcr accident. Freshmen, Sophomores Tangle In Rush No arrangement for transporta tion to and from the airport is at present eontemplatPd by ti'>e Col- lege. October 2, 1939 C. F. GAR£::-3, Dean. This pwpused training course is f'imilar to those which have been instituted in colleges and univer- -.ities throughout the United States. Sl'ver a! colleges in the East have already organized Civil Aeronautics Authority training eourses, Rensse- lear Polytechnic Institute being the only one in this area at present. 0 ---- Hampton Singers Present Program of Spirituals A negro quat tet from the Hamp- ton Institute of Hampton, Virginia, visited the campus this morning and presented a program of spirit- uals in Daily Assembly. This is the third year that the singers have performed at Union. The quat tet sang a regular pta- hi am of four spirituals and one en- core. The program consisted of '•Down ·by the Riverside,\ \Go Down Moses,\ \There's No Hiding Place Down Here,\ and \Swing Low, Sweet Chariot.'' Their encore was \Ain't .Qwine to Study War No Mroe,\ Scenes hom Sntul'day's festivities, including the rtwh, the tug of waJ·, the tomato fight and a verbal battle with a Schenectady policeman. The money had been plac~d in the drawer of the vending de·vice for safe keeping. The thieves drill- ed holes around the lock and re- moved the cash after the lock had yielded. Detectives Jerome Monahan and Joseph Loft, who were assigned to the ca.se, removed the lock and drawer to the police headquarters to be tested for fingerprints. The C.oncordiensis spoke briefly with police headquarters last night only to find the department silent on the matter. It was admitted, however, that several phone num- bers were being traced in an at- tempt to search out the criminals. The police also revealed that the 1 obbery was engineered from the inside, either by employees or an~ other people familiar with the man- agement's habit of caching week- end receipts in the cigarette ma- chine. Mr. Anthony Hoadley, Comptrol- ler of the College, when asked for ;:, statement on the situation th:s morning was non-committal. \There 1s nothing I can add,\ he said, \of course, it is regrettable that there has been a tobbery. Nobody likes to Jose money.\ 0- Geology Students To Hold Conference Tluee Roles Still Unfilled Three important roles have not yet been cast. They are Second Lieutenant Hibbert, Second Lieu- tenant Raleigh and the Sergeant Major. There will be understudies for all parts. Miss Doyle will not direct re- hearsals until November 1, as sh.o is presently on tour directinr, :Cdc ward Everett Horton in \Sprmg- time for Henry.\ Until she t•eturns, David Wilder will direct rehear- sals in addition to assuminJ hi.; duties as stage manager. The settings, which will be de- sir;ned and executed by John Boyt, '42, will stress simplicity. The one set used in the en tire play is a dugout in the front line trench.os. A few benches, a table, a stair- way and several beds will be the only furniture used. The whole cast will be dressed in khaki um forms. ---o--- Ellery Preaches At Sunday Service Giving life to one's fellow men was the theme of Dr. Edward El- lery's sermon at the second regular Chapel Service of the present year, held Sunday, October 1. Dr. Ellery, Professor Emeritus of Chemistry, acknowledged that pop- For the first time in the history ular approval is usually desired. of the geology departments ir. either institution, geology students \To be seen of men,\ he said, \is from Union and Smith Colleges a normal human desire. Applause will hold a joint field trip on Sat- is sweet to hear and affords an en- urday, October 7. The excurswn joyment equaled by few experiences will tal•e place in and about Sc he- of life. Popularity offers release nectady. Approximately twPivc from life's troubles, quiets mental girls and two or three farult~· disturbances, is !'. basis of security members from the Massachu:;ettE for 2 · livelihood, H meas.ure of what women's college will travel here we call success. To secure it men to join with students from Uninn's will spend money, amuse the crowd, geology department in stuctying play to public whims. various Jocai geological phenomena. \Yet the enjoyment and satisfac- Frofessor H o ward Meyerhoff, tion and pride of popular approval head of the Department of Ge- lre superficial and temporary.\ Dr. ology at Smith, will lead the visi- Ellery continued, \Applause affords tors while the Union contingent no lasting happiness, accomplishes will be directed by Professor Ed- no permanent good to humanity. So ward S. C. Smith, director of th • artificial, so fleeting, so futile is similar department at Union. personal fame in all essential re- Professor Smith said that the spects, it is not worth the effort to joint conference and field trip secure it. Progress is not made would last all day Saturda:,·. The that way, in art or literature or exhibits in the GeCllogy Laboratury music, in economics or civics or in Old Chapel will be studied and morals or religion. Without great discussed. Professor Smith also an-· ideals men Clo not grow. 'Man's nounced the program for the field reach must exceed his grasp.' trip. \We plan,\ he said, \to tak2 \Such a principle is found in the group to visit the great ovH· man's religion. Man is religious. thrust east of Schenectady anrl Religion is a belief and a way of Sa1atoga. We will also visit the life. Every man believes something, extinct volcano at Schuylervilic. and what he believes affects all his the springs and the great Hoffman social relations. Basic principles of fault at Saratoga, and the fault at life are the principles of the reli- Wolfe Hollow.\ gion of Jesus, but they did not or!g- He added that the group will de- inate with Jesus·, They were first vote much of its time to a detail- proclaimed by Moses, and later ex- ed study of the rock f<i~'mations at pounded and expanded by Jesus: Schenectad~·. Geology students at 'Tbou shalt love the Lord, thy Union are familiar with all the God; and thy neighbor as thyself. geological phenomena that will be On these two commandments hang seen on the trip, as the clemen- the yhole law.' They are not the ,tary and advanced classes in this laws of Jesus. They are not the subject visit the sites on their rc~- laws of Moses. They are the laws \liar class field trips, On Thursday, of life-the adequate foundation of September 28, the Geology 1 class human happiness and everlasting visited Wolfe Hollow. peace.\

,j : I ':1 't ' 'f Page Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1939 . . :FAREWELL TO REFORM .--------~~NOTICES CALENDAR Olnutnr Fout>IJED 1877 \ . .z Causa Pnsa Parole .I ssai'' Because we feel that the situation de- scribed in the following editorial is espe- cially pertinent at the pt·esent time, we re- print \lt'arewell to Refonu\ which ap}>ear- ed in an earlier issue of The Concordiensis. !\lemtn:r llf thP .\swJt·i,l..tl'd Collt'.gia.ll· Pn·..,~ a11.i tlistrihutnr of thl• t ~o:h·gt,tlt• I Jig:t:::--l. T·ne tJffldat lll'\\'::--Jl.ll';.i~ltllt-· -;:\.lti.ttut;-UI:L~WO College. Publbht.·f1 TUL·~day autl Fridays thHIU~lt­ uut the l'nllt gt,' ;:t't':tl'. Eltlful·~Huum~, Slifil~llalr- -f'tliutl l '••llq~~ l\unpu~. Tt l·~l'hotll', ~··h··rtt·l\\att;:-. t-nt:::: Publicntiou (Jt)'lct•, Th~ t ~~Zl·tG.~-1-'t-:- .. ~~:--. :::11.::-;i::t~· =-'1 . ::::i•:ht\t •t•t·tady. ~- _ Y .• 'l:t· h•pl~t ·11~· _1: 111} };tjilll'l'Ct\ at t!W ~d\Vll_.d.lli)\ }'o~t lJfiitL' a~ s~:l<llld Class Mail :\latter. The prese11t editorial staff of The Con- cordiensis has taken a sort of perverse pride in the fact that since they assumed control last spring, they have resisted all tempta- tion to publish any editorials on courtesy in the daily assembly exet·cises. SuiJ~H.:rivtLUll JI!\Wt F1\:-:.---:-~t-~!--:·;-$:UIII a- ~~ ... ~lr; dt~Iivert•d auywlll·n· 111_~~·-t ~t~~~~-~·~·~' !'- •. Senior Boai'd Lawrence V. Pellettier, .Jr ....... Editm··in-Chief 24 N. S. South College-6-9728 Robert R. Eisner ............ Business Manager Kappa Nu House-+7331 C. Russell Deyo ............. , . Managing Editur Chi P:;i Lodge · 4-6527 George Load wick Pt»eli ........... Spot t..s Edt tor 938 Union St. 6-3548 Christopher M. Fahy .............. New~ Editot· Delta Upsilon House --4-7922 Edwin A. Fitz, .Jr ................ Feature Editm· 1254 Glenwood Blvd. · 4-28B7 Jacl;; Rabinowitz .......... Circulation C\,1anager Phi Sigma Delta House-6-0765 REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL. ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. Co/lege Publishers RePresentative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK. N.Y. CHICAGO • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES t SAN FRANCISCO John Lewis Paul Becker Junior Board Jan1es T\vining RobPI't Schulberg John Phillips ------ Sophomore Board Alexander Arony, Armand Fiegenbaum, John Grow, Samuel Portnoy, Jonathan Pearson, Solo· mon Blechman Business Staff Andy l(a.y, Ju~t\11 l't·!l:-olt in, ~t.lttlt ~ '; ... , • ,, ... r,·.•·. llonn.ld Haigh, La~lLll' ~dt\\.tliZ •. \I tlllll ( '·'' 1 .... ,:\lyron ).1111:'. Issue Editor. . . . Rnlwrt :o;.,hulh~l ~ Assistants S. Blt>c!Jman, J. Twining Tuesday, October 3. 1939 ===========- =·=-· =~- =-- ... -~ ~- EXIT THE IDLE IDOL With the delivering of prospecti last \Veek, and with the announcement of a contest for student contl'ibutions in today's issue of The Concordiensis, the too-long decadent Idol gives tangible manifestation to the campus that it is awakening from its protmcted dor- mancy. Founded in 1927, the literary publication has had a checkered career ,since its incep- tion. In 1936, the f01'tunes of the Idol reached such a low ebb that the Publications Board formally abolished the magazine. This abolition galvanized the editors to the extent of circulating a petition and causing the Board to reinstate the Idol as a college pub- lication. The revitalization \Vas ephemeral. however, and interest and participation have dwindled ever since. One of the eternal campus questions was \When v..-ill the Idol appear'?\ and when the publication was circulated, usually one or two weeks late, the popular query was \Why?\ The magazine usually contained fewer than the scheduled number of pages. had too few articles and stories, and seveml of the published works were of questionable merit. The tenor of the magazine seemed to reflect the general campus opinion that the editors had thrown a fe\v pool'ly edited arti- cles into a format and had gone away and left them. Time and ag·ain our· l'esolution has been stretched almost to the breaking point. We have marveled at Dr. Fox's patience and good tempe1· as each da,\· he is obliged to stand and wait before t·ending the announce- ments while scores of latecomers bustle into their seats, chat with thei1· neighbors, and call greeting-s to their friends across the aisle. Yet there is neYet• a word of repri- 1 :umd fr·um the president, only courteous pa- i .ence until the noise subsides. In the past, admonitions, reprimands, in- dignant editoria.Is, had no effect on conduct in asselll'bly. It is our fi11n belief that they never will have any affect. People just don't respond to an appeal to thei1· better natures. We describe the daily assembly situation, not as a deplorable fact, but merely as a fact. Xow it seems certain that the courteous example ol' Dr. Fox i::; having no effect. Colll'- tesy is not contagious. \\'e should give up trying to reform. Let us admit that, if the,\· are given the chance, 20 per cent (ancl this is a cautious estimate) of the student borly will stroll into the chapel 11f'ter the proceeding·;-; have begun, interested only in getting to their seats sometime be- fmc the markers have left the building. These latecomers disturb those who come on time, and are tr.ring to hear the speaker. They give the speakee a very unfavorable imp1·ession of l'nion if he is a guest, and con- . firm that impression if he is a student or professor. And too often stmting assembly must be delayed l.Jecause most of the audi- ence is in motion. There is only one thing to be done: Shut the chapel doors pnHnptly at 10:00 o'clock. Let the latecomers sit un the steps and hold an assembly of their own. Or, if they are anxious tn hear the speaker inside and are willing to forego attendance credit, they may be permitted to .slip quietly into the vacant seats in thP rear of the Chapel. IN THE MAIL October 2, 1939 To the Editor of The Concordi(>nsis: This year, however, the l'enaissance of The Idol is in sight. The board, has expend- ed a remarlmble degree of effort and ingen- uity in effecting this revitalization. Accord- ing to current plans, the publication will con- tain at least 40 pages, but no increase in student tax money will be asked, as an added advertising and circulation revenue will com- pensate for the added cost. Features have, been solicited, innovations in undergradua-te publications will be incorporated, and more illustrations will be included than were used in preceeding issues. At the Stud0nt Body MePting this mmning con- gratulations were given the Freshmen and Soph- omon•:; for their excellent display of spirit ·on .Saturday afternoon. That they deserve praise I mo\t hPat til~· agt ee. I only differ in my reason fot· it. They are to be congratulated. not for having put up such a valiant fight, but for hav- ing negotiated it with whole sl-;ine. No one would deny that the supervisors of the cane fight did as well as they po:;sibly could. But neither they nor a small army could manage a melee like that in a mannPr sufficient to guarantee safety to the combatants. Surely no spectator left that field without the feeling that acc-idents, and acci- dents of a very grave nature, might have occur- red. Let me illustt·ate just from what I saw: One man was hit over the head with a cane. He wasn't hurt seriously, ·but he did wave his arms dazedly a:bout in the ail·, collapse for a minute or two. and then :;;tugger off to another fray. Another man picked up one piece of the broken cane, ran a few yards, and was tackled. How near he came to falling on that jagged end I dis- like picturing. But there was no accident, and the College can feel very thankful for its luck Am I indulging jn wild p1 ophecy when I say that ju;;t as surely as thosP fights are continued, just so su1·ely will some tragic mishap, perhaps not next year or the year after but inevitably, put an end to the fooli:\hness? Let the thing be enced ·before there be so heavy and shameful a cost; because no amount of headshaking, no amount of sorrow, can bring back health, or even life. to mme lad who will be hurt. The tug-of-war was ce1 tainly a healthy enough affair, and if H be necessary to instill elass spitit by some such competition, that should serve the purpose. The sooner the cane fight dies, the bet- ter. ThPre are very few of us who wouldn't enjoy a scrap like that, but for the good name of the CoHege and more e~pecially in behalf of that nameleES Freshman or Sophomore who might one day bring that disorganized fight to a griev- ous close, I suggest that the Student Council in- :\urc that It never occur again. Yours, Thomas H. Ralston. We cannot, of course, guarantee that the fall issue of the 1939 Idol will surpass sim- ilar publications of all other colleges, but we do venture our unqualified prediction that it will be a definite improvement over any issue of the magazine seen on the campus in the last several years. OUR COLLEGIATE CONTEMPORARIES Cigarette consumption at WILLIAMS COL- LEGE set a new high dw·ing rushing week this fall. The \Record\ estimates that 52,000 \weeds\ -enough to make a chain two and oue-quarte1· miles long-were consumed by the sixteen frater- nities in the :umuaJ effort to impress the poten- tial pledges. ANNALS OF ST. ANDREWS By ,JOHN P. LEWIS, '41 Geneva, Septembe!' 14 In our first effort we predicted Paris for the above dateline. We were innocent then; we were happy- we knew nothing. of the mystel\ies and Black Magic of the Fl'ench wartime visa set vice. Now we know, for we have been in Geneva already for eight days and are rank optimists if we think we have only eight to go. Much has been happening to the world since September 1, all of which the United States knows a great dea•l more about than Europe. He1 e we have carloads of news, but it is always German news oi· Eng- lish news, Italian, French or Polish. Seldom is it real news and when those ra·re instances occur we are unable to identify them. We !mow only that general war was declared a couple of weeks ago, that the Germans are moving forward in Poland--how fast, we have no idea -that the French are probably having some sort of success beforfe the Siegfrie-d Line, that the Reich's undersea fleet h? ~ begun its hellish business with H wili, and that there is an awful lot more going on than we suspect because forty French recruited from Geneva alone have been officially accounted for with the terse comment, \killed in ac- tion\. * * * A friend of ours who is heading for home in California-if the Ger- mans don't cause an international naval incident and get him first- has consented to especially convoy this item of the annai>J to New York so that we may say exactly what we think of the French foreign >Jet vice without fear of censorship. Therefore the ranting shall com- mence. On Wednesday, September 6, hav- ing learned in Berne the day before that some new wartime visa was neceEsary for an entry into the land of the Franks, we practically pumped the back axle out of the PhanomE'n to cover the 150 kilo- meters to Geneva by 3:30 so that- we fondly thought-we could get the application for the visa off to Paris. where it had to go to be mailed back again. As was said, we were innocent then. The Amer- ican consul was kind: he broke it easily, mumbling only, \I wouldn't bother to :;-o around today.\ On Thursday the Swiss took a hand by producing a national holi- day which closed the French Con- sulate for the afternoon and made it impossible for us to get the pass- port photos which they demanded until Friday. In fact we couldn't get them until 10:00 Friday, and that licked us. Later by grim ex- PPr ience we found that it was nec- essaty to arrive before 8:30 to stand a fighting chance !\fighting\ being used literally>. When we arrived Friday there were 150 inside on the same mission as ours and at least another 200 outside. In the after- .noon it was worst. By Saturday, having assumed a sort of fatalistic calm, we wE're not at all surprised to discover, upon arriving early that only those who had received tickets at 5:00 on Friday were to be ad- mitted. Wondering how in the world the French Army was going to a void annihilation if it was or- ganized like the foreign service, we tried to drown our disappointments in the waters of Lake Geneva over the week<:>nd. But by Monday our attitude had 1eso!ved itself into one of grim finality. It was either to do or be done-and after five and one half hours we did. From 8:30 until ex- actly 2:00 p. m. we were rolled and tossed in a mob which will always be our idea of the Black Hole of Calcutta, in which children were trampled under foot and women clung to smelling salts. Finally after this lunchless vigil victory was ours. As for when the visa will return from Paris. as the clerk in the consulate cheerfully put it: \Cinq jours, cinq semaines, deux mois -qui sait ?\ .. • * The odds for the visa, however, are on a fortnight, and had best stay there, because it has been firmly resolved that war or no war these annals will be of St. Andrews for '39-'40, and the term of that worthy institution gets un- der way shortly after the first. The day after the declaration of war we wrote Sir James Irvine- principal of St. Andrews <benefit, Class of '43)-fot• advice. Sir James cabled back, proving him- self the wily Scot he is. In our let- tet· we had mentioned the fact that our consul in Zurich had ad- vised proceeding to Scotland as planned. So Sir James, to avoid any run-in with the British cen- sors who might not be ,iparticularly enthusiastic about his procedure, answered, \Follow American Con- sul's advice.\ Today ·!:30 p. m. Libnny Make-Up Tests. Old Chapel. Wednesday 10:00 a. m. Daily Assembly. Speaker, Henry L. Crosby, J.r., . '41. \Student Taxes.\ 1:00 p. m.--Glee Club Rehear- sal. Hanna Hall. 7:45 p. m. -- Student Council Meeting. Old Chapel. Thursday 10:00 a. m. - Daily A::;sembly. Speaker. Miss Frances Travis, \S t u d e n t Employment Bu- reau.\ 1:00 p. m.-Glee Club Rehear- sal. Hanna Hall. 8:30 p. m. - Lectl1re. Speaker, Ruth Bryan Owen. \This Businrs;; of Diplomacy.\ Me- morial Chapel. Friday 10:00 a. m. - Daily Assembly. Organ recital, Dr. E. A. Tid- mars!! 'blue' Coal - Fuel Oil Seeds Fertilizers HIRAM J. McCAIN COMPANY 306-314 Union Street PHONE 4-4448 AU the Latest Records at Cassed/s VICTOR BLUEBIRD COLUMBIA - DECCA VOCALION Victrolas - Sheet Music Musicai Merchandise CASSEDY PIANO CO~ 460 State St. Near Proctor's All freshmen who live neither in the dormitGries nor in frater- nity ho~:~ses who wish to attend the first Skidmore party next Satur- day eveni·ng are aslred to register with Brad Hastings at the Kappa Alpha Lodge. All ·freshmen attending the fi·rst Slddmore party, who are holders of weekly dining tickets, are re- qhlested tG use the ticket for the week of October 8 at the dinner prPceeding the party. TYPING SERViCE 30 cents 1,000 words, Mss. typed 5'/( off. Phone 4·0133 Miss Jmn Cl'·oxfold SILVER. DINER Erie Boulevard Quality Food--Always Open One step fl·om State St. JOE'S BARBER SIH!OP Opposite Post Office Featuring Haireuts for Union Men ~-:,.,,.,.llt•!Jt HarbL·l\~ K>;<·ellent \\·url-; HEALTHFUL ALL YEAR 'ROUND ICE CREAM e~f your Favorite Soda Founfain Watch and Jewelry Repairing Engraving JAY JEWELRY CO. COR. STATE and CENTER STS. CLOVERLAND CREAMERY For Prompt Service MILK - BUTTER - EGGS - CHEESE - ICE CREAM Phone 6-8104 919 State St. \Call Ball and Ball Will Call\ P H 0 N E 6·3456 .. ,. SEND your laundry home by convenient RAILWAY EXPRESS Thrifty idea, this: .It saves you bother, and cash too, for you can express It ho';le \collect\, you know. So phom our age?t today. He II call for your weekly package. speed It away by fast express train, and when il returns, deltver your laundry to you-all with- out extra charge. Complete and hand 1 , Onl RA E y, e1. • Y ILWAY XPRnss gives this service and tt'~ the same with your vacation baggage: For either or both, just pick up a phone and cal Cor. Wall & Liberty Sts 'Phone 4·5612 • , , Depot Offic<.: N. Y. C. Station Prore 4-RSI2 Schenectady N Y 1B39 • • • A Cet~t11ry of Servi•• • • '. 1ss' RAIL 'W\ A\'\: EXPRESS AGENCY, INC. i ' ., , GA Norris :Pace Union's C In 41-16' Haverfor1 The Unio ball team i1 son with a SCO!'ed a ' Haverford Pa. George merstrom fense, the the six Gar Coach Ni terday thai ragged dur and he w out before home seaso ity College Engineers 26 to 19. Coach N• 2G men wh fit st elever of the wh1 off to Ha' host's offe tain Sam who with C paced Unic through ce Haverford' then ran 1· Hammerst the score, after touc: Van.n About 1 period thE clicking a drive Jack a 15-yard 1 second ta verted frc close of tl play was again on third Unl· tain HamJ The on! ford agai also cam· when Di Black tri] fiel.d. goal half ende to 3. At the period, f through t walltakir 20 yard n: on a re, failed to At this sent his serves in1 plete sec< scored tw but conv their totE J.<~n: Union':: played p1 experien< twice ag: In the n Ed Ensti recovere• stice in raced 80 for the Sherman the SCOr• The 1 period a: ing up ' Both wei on defer a pass Union S< tute qu: versions ond hal fil st tea Un LEMar LTW.l LG Kea C Mol: RGKn RT Klu RE Gui QB Bal LH Var RH No FB Hat Score Union Haverf< Toucl strom, after Sherma -Beele ford. well, Eisner, man, I tice, G ford: J binski NOTIC Any who g: the ru suitabl them 1 flee in

. j ' , ,, , THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1939 Page Three GARNET ROLLS OVER HAVERFORD IN OPENER Norris and Captain Hammerstrom A OF PECK SPORTS :Pace Unio:n to Decisive Victory ,.~------- Union's Offense Clicks ln 41-16 Win Over Wea·k Haverford Scarlet and Black The Union Col'lege varsity foot- ball team inaugurated its 1939 sea- son with a bang Saturday when it scored a 41 to 16 victory over · Haverford College at Haverford, Pa. George Norris and Sam Ham- . merstrom led the Dutchmen's of- fense, the former scoring three of the six Garnet touchdowns. Coach Nitchman announced yes- terday that the defense was very ragged during the game Saturday and he would try to smooth it· out before the Garnet opens its home season Saturday against Trin- ity College which took the R. P. I. Engineers into camp last Saturday, 26 to 19. Coach Nelson Nitchman used au· 2G men who made the trip and the first eleven playE'.d only 35 minutes of the whole game. Union kicked· off to Haverford and stopped the host's offensive immediately. Cap- tain Sam Hammerstrom, fullback, who with George Norris, wing\back paced Union's offense, ran 30 yards through center to place the ball on Haverford's 15 yard marker. Norris then ran 14 yards on ''- reverse, and Hammerstrom bucked the line for the score, but failed to place-kick after touchdown. Vanni<\r Passe;; to Norris Scores Three TouchdtJwns Congratulations to the var- sity team fo:r bringing back a victory .... Those who saw Trinity beat R. P. I. say that Duke Nelson is doing a lot of wailing fot· no reasoH at all, because he has a speed.y back- field and a very heavy line. How about it Duke? ... Other Union opponents who played last Saturday came out with the following results; Trinity 26, R. P. I. 19; Middlebury 7, Williams 0; and Vermont 7, Amherst 6. . . . Ed Enstice's GEORGE W. NORRIS · 80 yard run went through the whole Haverford team for the most spectacular play of the Frosh Squad Shows Improvement With less than one week remain- ing in which to polish up a green freshman team on the fundamen- tals of blocking and tackling be- fore the Kent School invades Sche- nectady, Coach Art Lawrence ex- pressed satisfaction today over al- most 100 per cent improvement in the yearling squad. game, so they tell us .... Ac- cording to men who were there, two sophomore half- backs had g-reat fun Saturday night dousing passers-bywith glasses of water from their hotel window. In order to stop the \showers two guests (inebriated ones) tried to smoke them out by burn- Varsity Runners Below Cal.iber Of Recent Years Third Week of Practice Will Condition Men For Opener with Vermont With Paul Santoro, Frank Mele- wicz <co-captains), Bill Johnson and Don Collins assured of nosi- tions one, two, three and four·, re- spectively on Coach Bill Ketz's var- sity cross country squad, eyes are center·ed on the number five spot which must be filled before the Garnet opens its season with Ver- mont UnivPrsity Saturday. According to Ketz, the above mentioned four are as steady as ever and shonld do equally as well if not better than last year, but the remainder of the squad is in- experienced Rnd does not appear to be of last year's caliber. Pearson Has Edge The fifth position provides some- what of a question. Jack Pearson, Fred B1·and anol Dick Conly, a!~ green in regards to varsity com- petition, have been practicing daily under the tutelage of Coach Ketz. Of the three, Pearson appears to have a slight edge and will prob- ablY be started as number five. Be- sides Brand and Conly, Gale Hoff- man and Doc J'..Iaines are running daily and will run with the ha<- riei·s. The freshman team will be able to begin routine p1·actice session» this week, according to Ketz, sincE> the library course ls complete and will no longer keep the freshmen from reporting on schedule dai!y. INTRAMURAL$ . Football Tickets TOUCH FOOTBALL Results of Yesterday's Games Sigma Phi 14; Sigma Chi 0. Theta DE'lta Chi 27; North Col- lege 0. Psi Upsilon G; Neutrals 0. Alpha Delta Phi 13; Oldgym Hall 0. Schedule for Wednesday Beta Theta Pi vs. Psi Upsilon and Sigma Phi vs. South College on Council Field. Delta Phi vs. Phi Delta Theta and Theta Delta Chi vs. the winner of the Delta Upsilon-Kappa Alpha game on Alexander Field. Bellevue Quality Bakery 2625 B'way Phone 4-6248 BREAD - ROLLS • PASTRY Tickets for the forthcoming Union-Trinity football game have been on sale for the past week. Students will be required to pro- cure tickets for their seats in the Cheering Section for each varsity game. There may be obtained by presentation of the \Athletic Tick- ets\ at the gymnasium office. Ad- mittance to the Cheering Section will be denied to all non-holders by the ushers. Students must show both their tickets at the gate to the ticket· tal{Cl'S', All persons attending athletic contests are REQUIRED to take the seats which their tickets call for. BELLINGER PAINT CO. Arthur Trigg, Prop. Paints, Oils, Varnishes, Glass Brushes and Wallpaper 126 BROADWAY GUERRA PHARMACY We deliver all kinds of sandwiches as well as any drug needs. Call early ... deliveries 'till I I p. m. 25c minimum on deliveries. Phone 6-9419 600 Union St. cor. Barrett About mid-way in the second period the Union offense started clicking again, and after a short drive Jack Vannier, halfback, threw a 15-yard pass to Norris for Union's second tally. Hammerstrom con- verted from placement. Near the close of the same period the same play was duplicated with Norris again on the receiving end for the third Union touchdown, and Cap- tain Hammerstrom converted. \We have not outstanding Indi- vidual stars·,\ he explained, \but with good teamwork we shall be able to give any opponent a good battle.\ Kent is considered very strong according to all reports with a more seasoned outfit than the Garnet freshmen. The remain- der of the week will be spent with practice drills on tackling and blocking. Friday's session will be limited to signal drill and kick off practice. ing the \Do Not Disturb\ ·i\\r!===========:;, sign on their door. Some fel- low players then rushed to their aid and put out the fire. . .. Jack Guibert, who played a bang-up game on the field without getting a scratch, The only score made by Haver- ford against Union's first string also came in the second period when Dick Beeler, Scarlet and Black triple-threat, place-kicked a fiel.d goal from the 30-yard line. The half ended with Union leading, 19 to 3. At the beginning of the third period, Hammerstrom crashed through the center of the forward wall taking the ball to the Quakers' 20 yard marker. Norris then scored on a reverse, but Hammerstrom failed to convert. sustained one black eye in a paper fight on the bus .. Olio Prof. Hal Wittner offi- According to Lawrence the fresh- man backfield is shaping up nicely whereas the line can stand much improvement. Punting and passing have been stressed in the past week and improvement has been dated at four grid tilts in the shown in both departments. Capital District ovet· the 0, __ _ NOTICE weekend. A man-.sized job! The Senior. Reading Club will I Billy Thomas is a frequent meet at 8 o'clock this Pvening at and welcome visitor at the the home of President Dixon Ryan At this point, Coach Nitchman sent his sophomore backfield re- serves into the game with the com- plete second team line. Haverford scored twice against the substitutes, but converted only once to make their total of 16 points. Fox. gym. l<~nstice Races 80 Yards Union's second-team backfield played poorly because of its lack of experience, but manage.d to score twice against the Haverford eleven. In the middle of the third period Ed Eustice fumbled and Haverford recovered. On the next play, Eu- stice intercepted an aerial and raced 80 yards to the Haverford 5, for the longeEt run of the game. Sherman Hillick then plunged for the score. The reserves sta1 ted the last period an.d finished the game, open- ing up with a passing attack. Jim Bothwell, left end·, was outstanding on defense and offense and caught a pass from Billick •for the final Union score. Lee Sherman, substi- tute quarterback, made both con- versions from placement in the sec- ond half. Jack Guibert was the fii st team's defensive star. Union Haverford LE Marotta ....... , ..... Mechling LT W. Baker ............ Williams LG Kearns ........ , ........ Baum C Molloy .... , . , .. , ........ Lewis RG Krull ............ , .. D. Brown RT Kluge ................ Hendill RE Guibert ............. , . . Snipes QB Balch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Beeler LH Vannier ............. J. Magill RH Norris .............. A. Magill FB Hammerstrom . . . . . . . Prescott Score by periods- Union . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 13 6 16-41 Haverford . . . . . . . . . 0 3 0 13-16 Touchdowns-Norris 3, Hammer- strom, Hillick and Bothwell. Points after touchdown-Hammerstrom, Sherman 2 and Beeler. Field goal -Beeler. Safety against Haver- ford. Substitutions-Union: Both- well, Hallenbeck, Burns, Lynn, Eisner, Friedman, Goldblatt, Sher- man, Killian, Baker, Billick, Ens\ tice, Griffith and Howgate; Haver- ford: J. Brown, Smith, Cerroco, Du- binski and Green. ---o,--- NOTICE Look Well for Union's First Home Game 0 0 0 VISIT THE ACME BARBER SHOP Where Service is a Pleasure 509 UNION ST. PHONE 4·4525 Free Haircut to Union Man Making First Touchdown! Gazette Press Printers Wm. Green Jr~ DAIRY PRODUCTS MILK CREAM • BUTTER EGGS • ICE CREAM CHEESE Any freshmen or sophomores. who gained 'possession of canes in 1701 un·•on· St. the rush Saturday may have them suitably engraved if they will bring ·Phone 4-6173 PEOPLE'S FOOD MARKET FINE FOOD and GROCERIES 1291 Rugby Rd. Schenectady Engraving Co. 147 JAY STREET ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORDIENSIS r~;e~;::;:;;:::;l ~ THEXDOL ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ w ~ ~ Announces a Cash Prize Competition Open to all ~ ~ Undergraduates now enrolled at Union College. .~ ~, Contributions in any vein- Fiction, Verse, Criticism, ~ ·~ Biography, Exposition, Humor - are Eligible. ~·· ~ ~ . ~ JFJilll§'f JPlllliZlE o o o $HUH]) ~ ~ §lECONJD) JPlllliZE o $1,~0 ~ ~ 'flBlJIJil][)) JP'lllliZE $~,00 ~ ~ Tho competition will do;;o \ fi\ p. m. oo ~lom\oy, Dmmbec 11, 1939. :-1 o m\\i.U ~ ~ submitted after this date can be accepted. ~ All contributions must be limited to a maximum of four thousand words. Copy of over four thousand vvords zci/l 11fJI be accepted. ~~ Contributions ~hould be ad(lressed to THE IDOL. and should be left at the Comp- ~ ~ tmller's Office in the Administrat!on Building before the closing date. ') ~ All material submitted will automatically become the property of THE IDOL, and ~ ~ the editors reserve the right to print contributions not awarded prizes as well as those ,~ ~ ,dectol by tho judg'-'. ~ ~~ The Judges will be- ~ ~ DIXON RYAN FOX I~ ~~ BURGES JOHNSON ·~~ ~ FREDERICK L. BRONNER them to the Student Activities Of- · flee in-washburn Hall. lbi;;;;;=========================;;;;;!.! ~~~~~~~~

!f :I '·'' :.t: Page Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1939 1\ \1 New Bulletin Board IN THE MAIL CRITIQUE ~ To Be Constructed ·1 To the Editor of The Concordiensis: ll.=============;;;;;!.!- . . . . . Your eultorml on the sopho- .. . A specml stuucnt activities b.ulle-; 11101 c-!!'e\hman relations is one of • Movies can be divided into at least three classes. The first is that in which the direction of the play is the entire basis on which the movies rest. The second grouping is that of the star who is the en- tire show, and the third is an ad- mixture of both. The Disney pic- tures are the purest form of a director-picture. No matter w:tac 1Eeans is used, entertainment value can be de- veloped or a point can be carried. Fifth Avenue Girl presents Ginger Rogers in a film that is entertain- ing but which does not allow her to be effective in her presentation. She has not yet the ability to carry a show by acting; wit.hout Fred Astaire as a partner she has no special ability that attracts the public. So the result is sad, very sad. Mourning is in order and flowers are appreciated for the lamented Astaire · Rogers films which are being replaced by poor- ly acted Rogers films and no Astaire shows. If Disney could usP her in anothe1· Snow \\ihite good ,;ince her per:;onal attractions do warrant attention, but as an ac- tress s·he needs much cardul ci- rection which she has not been receiving. C. H. M. Unquestionably Favored! tm bua.nl, to be u~ed exclus1vel~·1 the best 1 have seen m! 'l'he Con- for notices conccr.m.n.g extra-curr1- co!\dien However. 1 believe you cular student act1v1tles: has been mi:;.;;ed one pomt. · 1 bat 1 s that the erected on the east wall of_ 01~ uppcrcla>sman ate egging the Chapel .. next to the two ali ead) 11 eshmen on to action agamst the thet·e, 1t was announced yester~ay sophomores. certainly the nvalry b.y Professor Bea~c>tt: Coordma~ bl'tween the two underclass groupl tion of Student Actlvtti?S. arc a matter for them alone. That The ?oard, of approxtmat~ly the was shown in Saturday's contc>sts sa.me s1z~ as those already m use. which went off with no bad feel- will be .framed, and .covPred .bY a in. and engcndel'ed mutual tespect. glass wmdow. The wmdow ':\'Ill be u;perclas:; :;upport fat· fre:;hrHan lOCl{ed, and the kPy kept 111 thl' gt·oups a<>ainst certain sophomores Student Activities offie•:· snO\utl ll~t be toletated. . Plofe.;;sor B!.'nnett sa1d. that the \\ ould it be possible to further tdea for the new Bulletm Boat·d cla~s unity by ct·eating a different. ar~se ft·om a request. by Mr. Fred- can for each class·: · 1 ·he wearing· e~·1c A. Wyatt, Outmg Club a?- ot · the~c cups t wtth the exception Vtsor, for an Outmg Club .Bulletm of th<• ft'!'ohmen who would 1 eta1n Bos1d. It was felt tha~. smce the their prPsPnt Hdsl wourd be en- :;tudent body was paymg for the til ely U!J to the intin·il:ual. Pet haps board, a genf'ral b?~.r? :ot·. the use a ,(,moan! cap might be de:igned· of all stud:nt act1nt1e\ v;ould be for seniots, junio 1 .;; and sopho- mol e practical. . . . 11101 e 1 differing in color arrange- The 11ew bulletm board IS be1ng nH·nt anu numerals. constructed by the college carpen- MURRYBS For that in-between- classes bite and regu- lar meals. The best f o o d s at moderate prices. • Nott Terrace High Sc~ooi ! J<'ORTY-TWOER. TRY BOWLING FOR WHAT AILS YOU THE MEETING PLACE OF UNION MEN · 16 Alleys Billiards TABERSKI'S Next tl:l Mohawk Hotel Poet Rhymes on Signs That Clutter Campus The editorial board of The Concordiensis is a ware that col- lege has again started in earn- est. A little birdie flew into the office Sunday evening and dropped a tiny white car.d on the copy desk. The first writ- ing that came in sight were the initials H. A. L. Forthwith is the bard of Union's latest masterpiece: \Comment on the Outdated Signs That Clutter the Campus\ The burden of thes£> halting lines Is that I am a frowner On every putter-up of signs Who's not a taker-downer. H. A. L. NOTICE NOTICES The Pyramid Cil:lb, Ron-~ra~er­ nity s0cial organization, mv1tes all freshmen and neutrals t0 . a cider pal ty which wii'l be hel~ m Silliman Hall, Thursday evemng, ing weekend before the Hamilton football game. Men who plan to travel te Clinto11 for the game, however, may be excused from third and fourth peri0d classes. at 8 0'cloclc Dr. Augustus P. Za•bues11ic, pr0- fessor of French, will spea!lt to the :club members and guests, and games will be . played. A~ . a r~-, . cent meeting Edward TaJkowskl. '40 was elected president; Charlc!.i G~iles, '40, vice-president; Delbert Pasco. '40, treasui'er, and Ge0r15e . Clark, '41, secretary. Because of the recess on Satur- day, November 11, during ~nter­ ftaternity Weekend, there Will be 11o Saturday recess on the fol10w- C. S. M 0 0 D Y Optometrist Louis Wasserman Cf)t:JAI.ITY MEAT MARKET 354 B'way Ph. 4-33'64, 4-3365 Ruth Bt·yau owen, Ambassador to Sweden. will speak on \This Busines;; of Diplomacy\ in Me- . moria! Chapel at 8:30 o'clock, Thursday evening. Eyes Examined, Glasses Fitted 115 n'way Telephone 6-5747 'l'hree Doors from State St. \'What's new, we show\ Famous Make SHIRTS $1.55 Values Interested in Schenectady Interested in UNION MAURICE B. G'RAUBART Th• Jay Street Jeweler 166 Jay St. Watch and Jewelry Repairing a Specialty PARKER and WATERMAN PENS PHONE 4-5614 Everything. Electrical JAS. Fe BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. $1.09 Hand Tailored TIES 65c Values 44c SNAPPY :MEN'S SHOP 179 JAY ST. ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM Located next to j I Serving Union 17 Years ~~~~---~- ~:::='. ~=-- =-~-=~--=- _=_ =. __ =. ~~=-=.:..~' __ ll::::::::::::::::::::::::~===~l===-=--=-======~:=!:l~~~:::=:~~~ BELLEVUE DAIRY PHONE 4-2553 Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market OUR MOTTO \Quality - Service Satisfaction· 598 Broadway For Better Values SUITS Cleaned-Pressed TWO SUITS Cleaned and Pressed B~cJ: 93c Call for and Deliver \For Students Who Care\ .---- G & G----. CLEANERS DYERS 12 Elm St. Phone 3-1775 DALEY'S Featuring GOOD FOOD AND DRINKS BOOTH and COUNTER SERVICE 414 STATE ST. FRED AST A IRE has the right combination of great acting and dancing to give you more pleasure THEY HAVE THE • 1 your pleasure ... Ihe Riljh(:t '·' OJnbJital/dtt , of tlte .wodds best: cigarette tohae-eos FOR MORE PLEASURE Chesterfield blends the Right Combination of the finest American and Turkish tobaccos to give you a milder, better-tasting smoke with a more pleasing aroma ... And when you try them you'll find that these are the qualities Chesterfield has above all others in giving you More Smoking Pleasure. THEY SATISFY. ester 1e Copyright 1939, LIGGBT'i' ll MY!Jns Tonhcco Co. Appoi I Z-1' 11 Vol. LXH Stude1 Elects Of :Ex• GrouF lnterfr For N· Alexandel topher M. '40. and Sal were electe, mit tee of tl;te first ( academic y on Wednes Turchick pre:;ident r chosen to potted acti Hammerstt fratemity The rema' group will Chairman Paul Mata w. Benne• without Yl :ettier, Cha ,_i Cummittee Nove-ml Permissi tedratet·ni dance to I November chester fo under wh lowed to :;a me as ,, ! fraternity fraternity any defici and any submitted along wit fraternity penses fo: In resp1 ard Bale! cil make ing the f of the c chairman pear be: Council t vide roo bquad. I view of ternities during t1 of the foe to seek night. A mot the Tax istration to provic two del· Hetald 1 before t Noxnin officers, group, 1il used by nominat floor. Carr 1 pointed n;eet w when t1 meeting Ralston Carr we purpose A per tober 1: football the cha freshm< secure 'I Stew< the St• elected that g Board. Brad he half reporte fines, 1 Junior short c .chas'e Counci tiona! The meet in at: N uary 1 May 8

,, ; • • trnsts Union, ,. Opponer:~ts, 'Simon Pure' Dance ·:commiftee Appointed Z-~ 11 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1939 PRICE FIVE CENTS Vol. LXIH., No.6 Student Council Elects :Members Of :Executive Body 'Backg1~ound For •W ar' · Provided By '1'ime' Through the cooperation of the editors of TIME magazine, the booklet \Background for War\ : distributed with this issue of The ; Concordiensis is supplied to our . readers free of charge. This ' booklet has been currently sell- ' ing fo·r five cents at newsstands. lnte·grity Essential In Student Work Miss Travis Says Explains QuaHfications Required By Student Employment Burea•u Student Service Bureau Distributes Blotters The official Union College blot- ter made its appearance on the c am p us yesterday afternoon. Published and distributed by the college Student Service Bareau, the blotter is 'ctistributed to Un- ion students free of charge every year. 'Woody' Herman's Orchestra S.i~gned To Play at Interfraternity BaH Hayner Appoints Miller, Brown, Cone, Hanson, Witbeck As Comm.ittee Group Approves lnterfr.atern.ity Ball For November 10 --------------------------------~ David Hayne1·. '40, President of the Interfrate1·nity Council, has an- nounced that \Woody\ Herman's chestra ha:; iJcen placed under orchestra has· been placed under temity Ball to be teld in the Alum- ni Gymnasium on thp night of November 10. Alexander Turchiclt, '41. Chris- topher M. Fahy, '40, Fred Patrie, '40. and Samuel Hammerstrom, '40, were elected to tiH' J£xecutive Com- mittee of the Student Council at tl)e first Council meeting of the academic year, held in Old Chapel on Wednesday eveni.ng. The edHors of Time have i ·. written. this .magazine to help its 1·eaders see the war news of . today against the long range of yeste1 day. The booklet has re- viewed the events of the past which have led up to the crises of 1936-39. Mis:> Frances Travis, director of the Stuc'ent Employment Bureau. I described in daily assembly yester· 1 day, the many phases of the work of the Student Employment Bu· ' reau. Praising the co-operation al-: ready given her by the \College 1 community,\ Miss Travis went on I to outline the step necessary inl \ the development of an employment ·bureau. The blotter this fall was un- der the supervision of Alexander Turchick, '41, William Wardwell, '41, and John Cone, '40, and in- cludes such features as varsity football, basl,etball, and baseball schedules. Also included is a calendar, as well as fraternity and other frequently-called tele- phone numbers. Tte blotters are being distrib- uted to aH fraternity and dorm- itory residents by the Service Bureau, and any student who has not received his copy may do so by communicating with any member of the Bureau. Turchick wa\ elected as the class president representative, Faby was chosen to represent tl:e tax sup- por·ted activitie,, while Patrie and Hammerstrom are the neutral and flaternity delegates re~pectively. The remainder of the Executive group will consist of Louis J. Carr, Chairman of the Student Council; Paul Mata, Secretary; Dr. William W. Bennett, Coordinator, member without vote; and Lawrence Pel- :ettier, Chairman of the Student Tax Cummittee. The booklet is divided into seven sections some of which deal with the economic, political and social conditions in Europe : as a whole since the World War and also in Ge1·many and France alone. Other sections deal with the war machines in Europe, geogt·aphy, and possible battle- field;;, Asiatic conditions and the neutral countries. N.itchman Praises Morale of Varsity Football Team She pointed out that applica- tions for work have increased, es-\ pecially among upperclassmen, and stated that this situation is paral- leled on other campuses. Saying that it is the mission of the pres- ent student body to keep intact the cooperation between the em- ployment bureau and the various sources of employment, the speak- er went on to explain how this may be brought about. Of Appropriation $11,205 for N.Y.A. Nove-mhl\r 10 Dance Approved Suggests to Students They Watch Blockers In Game Tomorrow Miss Travis emphasized that »orne sacrifices must be made, and that dates and week-ends should be of secondary importance. Intt>g- rity, a delicate senEe of honor and courtesy were Jh;ted as being of paramount importance, a.s well as having one's work done well. Students Will Earn $2 1,700 From Other Sources During Year Permission was. granted the In- terfratet·nity Council to sponsor a dance to be held on Friday night,· November 10, the eve of the Ro- chester football game. The terms under which the Council was al- lowed to l:old the dance were the same as those granted the Inter- fraternity Ball last fall: tbe inter- fraternity group is to underwrite any deficit incurred by the dance, and any profit realized must be submitted to the Tax C'ommittee along with a budget of the Inter- fraternity Council's anticipated ex- penses for the coming year. Nelson W. Nitchman, '30, coach of the varsity football team, in speaking in daily assembly this morning, told the student body not to look ahead too far in the foot- ball season and nlan on victories over traditional rivals, but to point each week to the coming game as the team does. The speaker concluded by com- paring the student-worker to the film in a camera. in that he is un- der constant observation. \Ques- tions asked by employers,\ she said, \seem to indicate that the ability to make pleasant and agree- able contributions to every day life -the human element if you will- is still a determinant in men's af- fairs.\ -----o---- Supplementing the information which she divulged in her speech in daily assembly, Miss Frances Travis, head of the Student Em- ployment Bureau, revealed to \The Concordiensis\ ce r t a i n figures which she had omitted from her chapel talk in favor of more gen- eral advice. The National Youth Administra- tion appropriation for Union this year amounts to $1,245 per month, or $11,205 per year. This money will be distributed among the 101 students who have thus far been awarded N.Y.A. work. In response to a request by Rich- ard Balch that the Student Coun- cil make arrangements for hous- ing the football team on the night of the dance, Balch was named chairman of a committee to ap- pear before the Interfraternity Council to ask ttat group to pro- vide rooms for members of the \quad. Balch pointed out that in view of the fact that many fra- ternities would hold house parties during the week-end, the members of the football team would be forced to seek lodging elsewhere for the night. Nitchman next tJ\aeed the his- tory and development of the sin- gle wing back formation in the backfield and the subsequent de- velopment of the double wing back. No Definite Action At Air Course Meeting No final action has been taken by the Administration in the mat- ter of sponsoring the proposed Civil Aeronautical Authority non-credit flying course at Union. it wa:.s in- dicated by Dean Garis yesterday. In describing the work of the Student Speakers Bureau, Miss Travis explained that this agency handled not only speakers for va- rious occasions, but also student en:ertainers in all fields. Thus far thi ~ year five student speakers and one c:1tertainer have made appli- cation to the bureau. There re- main> a demand for musicians, es- pe~i..l!y those who could provide light music for meetings or teas. Dl'feat Motion A motion, originally referred to the Tax Committee by the Admin- istration requesting the Committee to provide funds with which to send two delegates to the New York He1ald Tribune Forum was brought before the Council and defeated. Nominations for f-reshman class officers, it was decided by the group, would be by the same method used by the class of 1942 last year; nominations to open and from the floor. Carr announced that he haci ap- pointed a committee of three to meet with the Graduate Council when that body holds its campus meeting on October 14. Thomas Ralston, Earnest Bodenstab, and Carr wer~ the men selected for this purpose. A pep rally for Friday night, Oc- tober 13, the eve of the Middlebury football game was announced by the chairman who added that the freshman class had consented to secure wood for the rally fire. Both of these formations add power and deception to offset the strength of the defensive team, he said. Asks Studt>nt Suppo1't In mentioning the present var- sity team, the speaker praised the m<Jrale and spirit of the team. \The spirit of the team from the cap- tain down to the last substitute is fine,\ he said. \With the student body behind it, the team is cer- tam to keep up this morale.\ In closing his speech, Nitchman suggested to the student body that it watch the blockers in the Trin- ity game tomorrow, rather than the ball carrier. \Anyone can gain with good blockers in front of him,\ he said, \and good block- ing is one of the most important factors in good offensive football.\ Pointing out that of the 300 eli- gible students but 13 h.:.d reported at the meeting on Wednesday night to learn further details of the course, the Dean added that a mini- mum of 10 men must enroll for instruction before the course can be given. The number of students taking the course must be in mul- tiples of 10. Six to Eight Jobs a Day T:1e odd jobs department is fill- ing jobs at the rate uf six to eight a day, Miss Travis said. Last year· over 500 odd jobs were handled by Union students, Nine freshmen have been placed in homes off the campus to work for either room and board or mere- ly theil· room. A total of 35 fresh- men are this year working for thir rooms. In totaling the amounts from various sources which have been given as estimates for this year's -------------------- income, Miss Travis said that ap- Enrollment in the course entails no military obligations, and suc- cessful completion of the 72 hours of ground work and 35 to 50 hours of flight instruction, leads to a civilian pilot's license. Compulsory insurance and health examination charges are covered by the $40 fee. proximately $9,000 will be earned JrT. • D fb ll f7l O t through the employment bureau, v nzon L' 00 a .1. eam, '}Jponen s $700 from special college jobs, $4,- 000 through positions as Hale A ll\n R·ated 'Sz\mon Pull\e' By Tu·nz\s House waiters, $8,000 through jobs 1 11/ 1 1 as waiters, stewards, or furnace The Union football team and the<e>·----------------------------- men with the fraternities, as well as the $11,205 already mentioned teams of its .opponents. can. never I are not paid, either openly or in connection with the N.Y.A. be cha~·~ed with professwna.llsm ;n , covertly, but where one or two key Looking ahead in the work of ~he ?pmion. of Joh~. R. T';Ims wn~-1 men are helped through.\ the Student Employment Bureau, mg ~~ the ?ctob~r Am~nca~. Me~; 1 \Colleges where squad members Miss Travis stated that plans are cu~y. In h1s article en~;tled Vll::.-:-. are assisted in one way or another\ being considered for a benefit to Pnce College Foo~ball, Mr. Tums form the third of Mr. Tunis's cate- establish the first work scholarship. li.s.ts Union, Hamilton, Haverford, gories. Carnegie Tech, Colgate, The benefit, which, if successful, Middlebury, R. P. I., Rochester, Dartmouth Fordham Notre Dame would undoubtedly become an an- Trinity ~.nd. Will!ams amOJ::g the Northwest~rn. Pittsb~rgh and Pur~ nual event, will probably be held Tosh Elected to Board coll.eges chiefly mterest_ed .~n the due are among the collegs listeC: in March, she •,aid. mam purposes of educatron. in this class. Stewart Tosh, Senior member of To make this survey of profes- The last group listed are colleges -----o the Student Tax Committee, was sionalism in college football the \where the profit motive is impor- Rev. James 1-\, Paul Here November 10 Hayner a;so announced that the committee in charge of the dance will consist of George Miller, chair- man, William Witbeck, Robert Hanson, John Cone and Foster Brown. Brown ha.s been placed in charge uf publicity and Witbeck in charge of decorations. Cone and Brown will handle the sale of tickets. \WOODY\ HERMAN Mlle. Dupre To Join Father In Union Concert Marguerite Dupre, daughter of Marcel Dupre, French organ virtuoso who has been engaged to appear in a concert in the Me- morial Chapel on Friday eve- ning, October 20, is risking a transatlantic crossing from Bor- deaux in order to join her fa- ther in this country for a con- cert tour this fall. A cablegram received yestevday by Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, director of music, disclosed this information. Dupre, who appeared here on the campus in a concert with his daughter two years ago, was originally scheduled to play a recital alone ln the Memorial Chapel on the 20th of this month. According to the most recent plans, Marguerite Dupre will ·be featured on the program in at least one ·composition for organ and piano with her fa- ther. Following in the traditiol1 of a musica;: heritage, Miss D).lpre has toured Europ€' either alone or jointly with her father, giving recitals in Paris and in various cities in France, Bel- gium and England. According to the latest re- ports, Mlle. Dupre's arrival in New York on the S. S. WaShing- ton is expected during this week- end. Mlle. Dupre and her father Will tour the United States from this month to December 8. Fox, President of A. C. U., Opens Annual Meeting The tickets for the dance are on sale now for tht·ee dollars and may be obtained from Foster Brown at the Kappa Alpha Lodge or from John Cone at the Sigma Phi Place. At present Woody Herman is playing in the Flamingo Room in Boston's Ritz Carlton. Previous to his Boston engagement, he played in the Glen lsland Casino, end- ing the summer there after Glen Miller had left to go on the road. Herman can be heard over the air several nights each week on a Na- tional Broadcasting Co m p a n y hookup. Unusual Decorations The decorations committee for the Interfraternity Ball has prom- ised unusual decorations for the setting of the dance. Hayner also announced the hours of the dance are to be ten to three. There will be no classes on Saturday morn- ing following the function. The dance, which has been sane'j:i!Jned by the Interfraternity Council, will be one of the main features of the Rochester Week- end. This second Gridiron Ball will open a weekend of football and dancing, with the Rochester foot- ball game on Saturday afternoon and many house dances scheduled for Saturday evening. Woody Herman's fifteen piece band is one of the top ranking bands in the country according to recent popularity poll conducted by the Metrotone magazine. \The bands that plays the blues\ is led by Herman himself, one of the youngest leaders of name bands, twenty-five years old, and features solid swing and sweet music. Mary Ann McCall handles the vocals. Besides appearing at the Glen Island Casino and the Flamingo Room in the Ritz Carlton Hotel Roof Garden, Herman has played at the Meadow Broolt in Cedar Grove, N. J., the Famous Door in New York City, Triannon, Cleve- land, the Raymour in Boston and the Netherlands Plaza in Cincin- nati. -------0--·-- Tid marsh To Play Works of Marcel Dupre President DIXon Ry&n Fox of Union College is among the eighty presidents of colleges in New York States who are meeting today at Lake Mohonk, the occasion being the Annual Meeting of the Associa- tion of Colleges and Universities of the State of New York. Dr. Fox, as president of the Association, opened this morning's session with introductory remarks on teacher eaucation in the colleges. Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, in his regular Sunday afternoon organ re- cital in Memorial Chapel at 4:00 p.m., will play two works by Mar- cel Dupre, French organist, who will appear here in concert on Oc- tober 20. The afternoon's program will feature the Grieg \Convcrto in A minor,\ in which composition Dr. Charles Gilbert Spross, a pianist familiar to Union College audiences will play the piano score, accom~ panied by Dr. Tidmarsh at the organ. elected to act as representativt:J of writer traveled about 8,000 miles, tant, sometimes decisive. Their T S k 1 d Ch I that group on the Publications visited about 100 colleges and uni- teams usually admit it, instead of 0 pea n 5 .. :n ay ape versities, and talked to every per- pretending as the others do, that The Rev. James A. Paul, St. Board. Bradford Hastings, spealdng in son who could conceivably possess Money Is Not All.\ Most of the James Church, New York City, hehalf of the parnet Key society, information on the subject. Inter- teams of the Southern, South- will deliver the address in the reported that the campus parking views were held with college presi- eastern, and Southwestern Con- Sunday Chapel service this Sun- Professor Franklin C. C'hillrud of Union College is also attending the meeting and will take part in a panel discussion with other prom- inent educators following a speech by President Edmund E. Day of Cornell University today. Dr. Spross has played for the stu- dent body here on the campus sev- eral times during the past few years, and he and Dr. Tidmarsh' have established an annual custom of playing this Grieg concerto dur- ing one .of the year's recitals. fines, which ate turned over to the dents, deans, business managers, ference as listed here. day in Memorial Chapel. Junior honorary society, fell $6.75 athletic directors, alumni secretar-1 Football as administered today, The Rev. Mr. James received his short of the sum necessary to pur-. ies, coaches, assistant coaches, stu- the author concludes, favors the B.A. degree in: 1932 from .St. Ste- chas:e keys for the group. The dents, and most important of all, few with brawn rather than the phens, Columbia University, with Council voted the Key the addi- with the players concerned. millions who need instruction. Phi Beta Kappa honore. After that tiona! funds. Not so clear of the charge of pro- Scholarships are open to athletes he attended Seabury-Western The- The dates •for the six subsequent fessionalism are such colleges as which are not available to the ological Seminary, Evanston, Ill., meetings of the Council were set Columbia, Cornell, Harvard, N.Y.U., average boy. Jobs are reserved for and received the degree of B.D. at: November 1, December 6, Jan- Princeton and Yale, which are star players, and .tutoring advan- in 1934 and then tool{ a year's uary 10, Febru<try 14, March 27, and classed among those schools \in tages are offered that the average work at Keble College, Oxford Uni- May 8. which the majority of the eleven student never gets. versity. The theme of Dr. Fox's address was that \it is fooliGh for college and university ' administrators to avoid thinking about what they are going to do if war comes.\ He declared that, in his opinion, the positive factor:.~ toward participa- tion in the second World War are stronger than the negative. The program follows: I. Citadel at Quebec ........ Alexander Russell The Bells o:i' St. Anne de Beaupre ........ Alexander Russell li. Suite Bretonne •. , , . . . . . . . Marcel Dupre Carillon . . Marcel Dupre III. Concerto in A minor . . . . . . . . . . . . Edvard Grieg

Page Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1939 ---··.c I __. +t±U\±hl' I 1 It •II GOOD BUY THE INQUIRER . REl'EATED, COURSE FEES PARKING RULES In order t0 relieve the congestion IlEPEATED COURSE FEES ia the parking space at the rear mnutnr FouNilED 1877 \..! Causa Pl'rsa Parole :l.ssai\ A news story appearing in a recent issue of the \Middlebury Campus\ should provide food for thought for the several fraternities at Union. IB that recent cane rush, it seems ARE DUE AND PAYABLE AT of the gymttasium the colleg;e 'has that Em Hutchins steeredl pretty THE COMPTROLLER'S OFFICE decided to designate for pl!tr'king cleai·· of the tussle after he man- ON TUESDAY, OCTOBER :1:0. Bills during such parts of the college aged to hobble over the lirl.e with have already been mailed. Ail pay-· year as it is feasible the east side a cane. What was the trotlble, Em?· ments made after the above date of the t·oad in front of the gym- Were they after you? A few Con- wHJ be subject to the '~sua! fine ?f · naslum. One-way traffic 0nly, from cm·dy boys were caught in the to- · $2.00. The Comptrollers Office Will stDuth to north, wiH ·be aHowed on mato fight. BHI Kl'lz and \Hel b\ be open fm the collection of Re- thiS! road. Carl'\ mljlsi be parked :\'lt'Inln-r 11f t.ht· .\ss•11·ia.tt>d t \llll\'giall' Pre~::, aud dt:-.ti.I,utul' ''t' tht• l'oiJ .. ~t.~tt· l•igt·~t. ··i·--;-w :.·t:n'\Zl.lt~·\v~ 1 ~.~ 1 ,~1-:--~--ri.-l:- srwlt·Jl.~~ ( 'ollt·~t.... 'PuJ,Il-.I·H·•l Tu·~day at1tl F'nday:-. through~ u~Jt lilt' tu!lq,!•· ,Yt•'tl. In an account of the continuation of a co- opemtive rood purchase .system at the \'er- mont college, the \Campus\ states: Houghton we1 e almost w it 'hi n pealed Course Fees from ' headed north and close to the iron drowninor di~tance at the tug of war. 'l b t een the t'oad a~·' th• \ g·.co A.M .. to 12:00 A.M. rm• e w · · · •• u · v Be mm e careful, boys. track. Etift~-ri'ati ut,;;rt.:;;·--sliT:lli.~u--llall~ -1 ·t~i\JII -L ~-;-,u~:gt.: l \llll]lll\\ 'l\ \Pp\l(J]It', ~1'11 ·Jil't'l!ll y, l~Ol:~:L l'tt~Jlit~a-titJu Oil1l't', Tilt' t i-.t~t:t ; 1 Tt·;;:-j-~T\\:~u~t\.:' St. ~ •ht·l·t't'\~ttl.Y. X y. '1\•lt:plHI!lt• -l-·11-11 l·:t;tll~~~ ~;t --t~~~---:_~~ l~·~•~·~.ul~ 1 11:-.t-ufiT~:.-- -~-;-;- ~t.·\ ~ \ \.,:-.~ :.\J:dl :\lattL·t·. -- -- ---~-- -~tih~l'l ip~t-o(, -~~i~cl• l-1\ -,. 1 t•ut.: a t opy; $a uu a )ear; dt•un·rt•d :ttl:V\\ lwn~ 111 tl!e t•nllt>ll ~tnlt!-\. Senior Board Lawi'Pnce \'. PeliPttiPr, ,Jr ....... Editor-in-Chief 24 N. S. South College-6-9728 Uob!'rt R. Eisner ............ Busine:;s Manager Kappa Nu House-4-7331 C. Itussell Dt•yo ... , ........... Managing Editor <.:hi Psi Lodge--4-6527 Grorgl' Loadwi<'i• J>edi ........... Sports Editor 028 Union St. 6-3548 Chl'istopher !Vi. :Fahy .............. News Editot· Delta Ups1lon House- -4-7922 .Etlwin A. Fitz, Jl' ................ Feature Editor 1254 Glrnwnod Blvd -!-28tH .Jm•k Rnhinnwitz. . . Circulation Mnnag!'r l'hi Sigma Delta House 6-07G5 ~EPR~SBNTED POR NATIONAL. ADV£-FffiSING ioY National Advertising Service, Inc. Co/lege P11blishers RePresentative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y. C\ICAGO •· BosTON • l.OS ANGEI.ES ' 'SAN FRANCISCO John I.e\ i~ Paul i;l·L'kl'I Jtmior Board James Twining Robert Schulberg John Phillips Hophornore Board Alexander Arony, Armand Fiegenbaum, John Gtow. Samuel l-ortnoy. Jonathan Pearson, Solo· mon Hle~llman Husineoss Htaff .\1 d\ l\ I\, .'J q ... t,lt r't>~ l...,lt Ill, ~l.tllh) I ii\L·t.>~t~1t·lll. f1\1•:t:•l ll,t.~il. ld:-1..\'1 ~~lt\\,lliZ, .\JlhUt ]la\1:--. M.:l •(I ;\I .1 'J ~·up 'Etllbr ,John Phillips Assistants <;rang,•:· Tr:pp Thumas O'Connor Solomon Blechman Fliday, October 6,!1939 FLYING COURSE i ! Leam to fl~· for n maxin1um of $40 ~ Ini- tial cost includes health examinations and necessary insurance. There is not doubt that if a private flying- school were to offer a flying course at such a reasonable price it would be delug·ed with applicants. When, however, a g·ovet·nment spou,sored course in fl;ving- is offered to l'nion students at this nominal fee but 13 of the more than 300 eligible undergTaduates are' sufficiently in- tere:>tcd to investigate this 'opportunity. Because we feel that this sparse attend- ance a:t Wednesday's meeting was caused by the failure of many of the: eligible men to fully comprehend the offer, we are attempt- ing·, through the medium of our editorial columns, to present a clear picture of the oppo1·tuni ty afforded. The Civil Aeronautics Atith01·ity is spon- soring these flying com·ses at colleges throughout the countt1·y in an effort to make the younger generation \ail· con- scious.\ There is no at'filiat}on between the Authority and any of the arms of national defense, nm· does participation in the course involve any military obligations. The cost of the course is, in large meas- ure, defrayed by the C.A.A.-the student's assessment of less than $40 is used to cover compulsory insurance, health examination, and other incidental costs. The coms.e, althoug·h of a non-credit na- ture, provides comp1·ehensive training in all aspects of ground training, and includes ft·om 35 to i>O hours of actual flight instruc- tion. Upon successful completion of the , course, a .student will receive a civilian pilot's license. Dean Garis has indicated that classes will be held in the evening-, so as to minimize the possibility of conflict with other func- tions. The cooperative among- the frater- nities fo1· the purpose oJ saving on the costs of food supplies is being continued a.gain this year as n successful buying org·anization. Realizing two years ago that group cooperation instead of in- dividual buying would cut down on ex- cessive grocery expenses, the stewards or the fraternities formed a buying so- ciety, pooling certain resomces and thus beginning a system which has saved the members from ten to twelve per cent of tlleir former gl'ocery bills. A few professors ga-ve thPir opin· 1:30 P.M. to 5:00 P.M. ion of the choir at a banquet in C. F. Gal'is, Dean. This year, the buying club has order- ed and had delivered large amounts of the year's supplies to the seven houses that are members. These orig-inal or- ders for groceries, pota·~oes, bread, pa- per and coal were placed last June. The manager obtained wholesale dealers' bids on this orde1· and by September 1 had given the bid to the company which quoted the most l'easona·ble prices on the Grade A quality products which the fratemities demand. Because of the size of the order the delivery charges are much less ti1an with a small quantity. The 1\.Jusiness manager is the domin- ant executive position in this buying club. He canies the main work of or- g-anizing, ordering, booking and paying the bills - making it the position of of manager, secretary and treasurer. Fur this work he .receives a salary ,the only one in the organization. It is not our intention to offer unwelcome suggestions to Union's fratemities, but we believe the implication is obvious. If other colleges can effect a 10 pel' cent reduction in food prices th1·ough cooperative buying, why not Union'? There will, no doubt, be seveml difficul- ties and technicalities to be overcome uefore such a plan can be adopted on our campus. but we feel that the ultimate saving will more than justify the initial efforts which must be expended. Hall' House last Sunday. I won- der what most cf the profs think of bolting classes for Glee Club t:ips. Some of them think it's O.K. \Vqat do you say. Lan_juagc De· partment? . I31ind drtes lll e abundant t:us year. I hear Freddy Lo:1ge is quite 1 hand at it. Hr has had three of· chem this year, and both of them ,, ere swell. Is George Fauset still tc2ring up, !Jills in ~ certain Saratoga rafe? We give the De't\l Chi's credlt for • thPir fine participat!on in interfra\; :emity spo1 ts this year. You should eee all the fa:rn ['ex: walldn\ along the Terrace late in the afte1 noon. \'ilhct an oppm-· tunity! . , \Vhen a man makes a touchdown. on the football field, there isn't much rea<·OH for a high· develop- ment of conceit. The situation 'leads, to a good razzing when he misses cne. A word to the wise .... Spealring cf fo0tball, the team has had a fine start; so let's all geL behind them tomorrow and through-: out the season and really cheer, them on to victory. , P1 of.eb'EO! Bennett claims that the, major p1 oblems on the campus al'e, \\Vh:!t time is it?\ and \What hap• pened to the heating plant?\ God knows: .... and we can't get in toueh with him. Prcfesc·or Whitaker's classes are all l'llther perturbed about the tf'l·minology used. After all, he's just in expecting us to be mat me at some point in our college career. To Nels and \Al\: After extensive investigation on that ire-arousing tid-bit in last week's column, I find that the inci- dent occurred at least three weeks ago and included only two practi- cally insignificant charactel'S. No hard feelings, I hope. Thanks. Frankie Fredericks is c·pending a let of time in the gym, g·etting in sl:aJ:e for ~the Inter fl aternity Ball. How phenomenal! Good evening, Jeau Bleau. CALENDAR Saturday lO:GO a. m. -- Daily As~·embly. Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, Me- morial Chapel. 12:00 a. m. -Freshman Football, Union vs. Kent School, Alex- under Fie>ld. 2:00 p. m. Varsity Football, Last year a p1·oposed milk-l.mying coopera- tive had to be dropped because of technicali- ties peculiar to the dairy industry. Well enough-fraternities can still pm·chase milk from whatever dairy they choose-the :;\Iid- dlebury plan makes no mention of milk in its i cooperative scheme. There is still the 10 per • cent saving on gToce1·ies to be considered. i Union vs. Trinity, A!exander Field. (;:CO p. m. ·-Union - Skidmore Freshmen Dinner, Hale House. Sun :lay 11:00 a. m. - Sunday Service, Pteacher, Rev. James A. Paul, St. James Chmch, New Yot·k City, Memorial Chapel. 4:CO p. m.- Organ Recital, Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, Memorial Chapel. Other colleges have taken the initiative I to rid themselves of expensive buying meth- : ods, but at Union- OUR COLLEGIATE CONTEMPORARIES COI.GATE UNIVERi'liT\''H rect>-ntly complet<>d athletic field is hailed by the \Maroon\ as the \largest single-unit-group in the United· States.'' Tbe field comprises an area of 27.7 acres, and \gives Colgate fields for every type of intercol- legiate and intramural competition-'' I Mcnday 7:30 p. m. ~ Band Rehearsal, Gymansium. Tues::uy 10:00 a. m. Daily Assembly, Speaker, M. Gale Hoffman, '40, Memorial Chapel. 1:00 p. m. Glee Club Rehearsa!, Hanna Hall. 7.30 ·p. m.-Cla8sical Club Meet- in:<, Dr. Kellogg's Home. 7 ::::::> p. m.-Chri<tian Associa- ticn Meeting, Silliman Hall. ST_ LAWRENCE'S \Hill News\ editorially at- tacl.s the recently adopted plan at theo Univer· sity calling for classes on Saturday mornings. \The new arrangement of Saturday morning classes is such that it is inconveniencing every dormitory, every fraternity and! sorority house and every private home in which students are boarding. The arrangement should be altered be- fore it becomes a tradition as foolish as an eight o'clocl{.\ ~~C-U-S-'I_N_E-'S_S __ S_T_A __ F_F~------------' All sophomores interested in com- peting for positions on the business s:aff of The Concordiensis are re· quested to report to Robert Eisner, Business Manager, at the Kappa Nu House. An intramural council has been drawn up at HAMILTON COLLEGE. The bod·y, composed· of one representative from each campus organiza- tion, schooules all intramural events, decides· the rules for each contest, and attempts to promote finer sportsmanship between the groups. In a poll conductl'd at FORDHAM UNIVER- SITY, the students voted Robert -Browning as the most popular man; the title of most popular woman went to--<Hedy Lamarr. In a. I'ecently annotmced list of fratm•nity and sm·ority scholarship averages at MIDDLEBURY COLLEGE, it was found that the sorority with the lowest average was higher in the ratings tllan the best fraternity. CLASSICAL CLUB The first meeting of the Classical Club will be held Tuesday evening, October 16 at 7:30 at the home of Professor Kellogg, next to the Nott Street gate of the college campus. Dr. Kellogg will read a paper on \Philip Melanchthon as Preceptor of Germany.\ PSI U TEA The Psi Upslion fraternity is holding a tea on Saturday after- noon following the Trinity foot- ball game. Alumni and friends will be the guests of the chapter at that time. All faculty members are invited to attend. ·, ... SEND your laundry home b y ·C o n v e n i e n t RAILWAY EXPRESS Thrifty idea, this: It saves you bother, and ·cash too, for you can express it home \coHect\, you know. So phon~ our agent today. He'll call for your weekly package:, speed it away by fast express train, and wher: tt returns, deliver your laundry to yoP,~ a>ll wlth· out extra charge. Complete and han,dy, eh? Only RAILWAY EXPRES~ gives this service, and it's the same with your vacation ,baggage. For either or both, just pick up a phoue and ca11 Cor. Wall & Liberty Sts. 'Phone 4-5612 Depot Office: N. Y. C. Station 'Phone 4·8512 Schenectady, N.Y. :1.839. , , A c.,.tury of SeN>ic<, , • 19:> RAIL~ A~ EXPRESS AGENCY, JNC, Here's the set-up back of the familiar blue B ll ~w~- e 1. Amer~can Telephone and Telegraph Com an h' coordmates system activities_ advises P 1: Y• 1 whICh · h on e ep one operation- searc es for improved methods, 2. 21. associated operating companies wh. h 'd h . · · h . . . ' Ic pr.ovi e tele. P one seivice Ill t eir respective territories. . 3. Long Lines Dt>partment of A. T & T h' . . t h · • ., w 1eh mter• c~nnec s t e operatmg companies lind handl L Dt:>tance and overseas service. es ong 4. Bell Telephone Laboratories which . t . r· h ' carries on scie 1 IC researc and development f th n· or e system. 5. W estet·n Electric, which is the manufact . In brief, Union men are afforded an QP~\ \r pnder a system proposed by the Stud!'nt Coun- cil at AMliERST COLLEGE, summer . rushing trips by filiterilities will be banned. The Cotmcil also hopes I to adopt a lllan whereby dormitot•y freshmen pledged to a ft•ttteruity will not be able to act as dormitory \rushing chairmen\ for their house. tributing unit of the Bell System. urmg and dis. .. \,Vith '?o~mon policies and ideals, these BellS stem compa~ues ~H 'work as one to give you the iinest and fnendhest telephone service at I portunity to le~l;JP ~o .,.fl.y .and ~~rn a P.i!,,ot;s license in a government sanctwned school, at a price which little more than covers pre- liminary costs. Opportunity knocks I PHYSICAL EXAMINATION Many freshmen hElve as yet not 1 ' taken theit physical examination.' All men who nave not, are required· to report to the College doctor at i'ihce. - owest cost. ·~ .... - ........................... . \~ ., - ' UN Dutchm For ViC' Btue an, Uni0B's firs wHl bring the to Alexander clash which ' cated wou-ld difficult on The series w to 1904, the fi on Novembel last game WE defeated Un· touchdown 1' The starti-n be the same to Lhe field I Haverford 4 ceptioB that right halfba at left end. Trinity Vo A driving Ish may be game lineup any indicat·i for ton10rro sever-al sopll iB positions sity letterm• team. Last wed Trinity tool• 26 to 19. T1 at the half l came to lif downs in tl a startlei ~ them. Trin ever~ on a 1 Trini -t Ryan, wl scoring pas was charac by Coach praised Tri excellent quarterbacl as he is a can pass ~ the .full ba ner Nitch: man on tht man's opin an exceller unusual a< : i ! I J j I i \ l ! \ ! l I i \ I Coach N diet the 01 promised 1 fighting 1 believes, h strength ' consequen t~ent. Uni tage of hE reserve si mores sa\ vice last E game. KentS, Freshm Kent S will pegil tonight 1 tilt with 1 Art Law! last nigh ing for a improved proceedir 12 noon Field. Kent i capable 1 orite ove bV€r, th1 gives e> hatd-figi: tormanc' team in any crit will figh no matt• Lawre M I c

• THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1939 Page Three ~ UNION MEETS TRINITY IN FIRST HOME GAME e e I- n n d n e. i. i l :,f I i l l ' \ i , I Dutchmen Prim·ed For Victory Over B~lu e and 'G o:ld UnioN's first home football game. wHI br·ing the Trinity College squad to Alexander Field tomorrow in a clash which Coach Nitchrnan imli-· cated would be one of the most difficult on the Union schedule,. The series with Tl'inity dates .baclt • to 19!H, the fi!st game beiHg p'layed on November 5 .of that year. The last game was won by Trinity who defeated Union last year by one touchdown 19 to 13. The starting Hneup for Union will be the same as the one that took to Lhe field last Saturday to smash Haverford 41 to 16 with the ex- ceptioN that Fred Patrie will be at· right halfback and J.im Botlnvell at left end. Trinity Voctor Over R. P. I. A driving game from start to fin- ish may be expected if the pre- game linetlp of the Trinity team is any indication of their intentions for tomorrow for it ap.pears that sevePal sophomores will ·be started iH positions formerly held by var- sity lettermen who are still on the team. Last week the Dlue and Gold of Trinity toolt the measure of R.P.I. 26 to 19. Trinity led R.P:I. 20 to 0 at the half but Coach Nelson's te9.m came to life to score three touch- downs in the third quarter before a startle.i Trinity team could stop them. Trinity scored again, how- ever, on a recovered fumble. T~inity Strong in Air Ryan, who threw ::-. forty yard scoring pass during the R.P.I. game· was characterized as a fine passer by Coach Nitchman who also praised Tri·nity's center Cary as \an excellent backerup,\ Rihl, the quarterback, is P. tri·ple threat man as he is a fine blocking back and ·can pass and kick well. Kramer, the full back, is an excellent spin- ner Nitchman said. The fastest man on the Trinity squad, in Nitch- man's opinion, is Ryan. He is also an excellent passer throwing with unusual accuracy. Coach Nitchman would not pre- dict the outcome of the game, but promised a good game and a hard fighting Union team. Trinity, he believes, had been fooled as to the strength of the R.P.I. team and consequently had been overconfi- t~ent. Union will have the advan- tage of having on hand a seasoned reserve since many of the sopho- mores saw their first varsity ser- vice last Saturday in the Haverford game. ---o---- Kent School Firs+ Freshman Opponent Kent School's varsity footballers will begin arriving on the campus tonight for tomorrow afternoon's tilt with the freshman team. Coach Art Lawrence announced his lineup l<J.st night and said that he is look- ing for a good game ftom his vastly improved yearling· combination. The proceedings will get under way at. 12 noon tomorrow on Alexander Field. Kent is usually reptesented by a capable team and will rule the fav- orite over the untried Cubs. How- tver, the Lawrence coached team gives every evidence of being a hard-fighting outfit and if its per- formance against the varsity second team in Wednesday's scrimmage is any critet ion, thP first year men will fight doggedly to the last ditch no matter what the odds. Lawrence will start the following PEARSON'S 108 Nott Terrace Sandwiches Hot Dogs SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES CANDY Magazines - Newspapers MURR.Y\S BEAT TRINITY! Come and visit us after the Game. Next to Nott Terrace Hiqh School 'Captain and Coach of '39 Varsity Cross Country Team Hopes To Repeat Win UNION vs. TRINITY Coach BiH Ketz and all his eligi- ble cros8-countrymen embarked for ; the University of Vermont early this afternoon with high hopes of ' getting off to a successful start in tomorrow's opener against the Catamounts. Probqble Starting Lineups UNION TRINITY No. Players Position Players No. 74 •Bcthw~>ll, '41 ........ , , ..... I.J<; ................ *Hopklns, '40 21 ''Baker, '40 ........... . .LT ............... . ''Dimblng, '40 46 ''Kearns, '40 ................. LG ............... . '''Lindner, '40 89 Since Vermont fell UHder a 17-38 58 score last year here, the men of Ketz should prevail tomorrow. Co- 79 captains Paul Santoro and Fran!' Melewicz were officially designated, 82 *Molloy, ' 41 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .C · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · *Carey, '40 16 . as Nos. 1 and 2 men yesterday and 70 · should rate that well against Ver- *H.rull, '40 ................... RG ..................... ,Jacy, '40 17 mont. Bill Johnson will run in the' !:SO *Kluge, '40 ................... RT ................ *Thomsen, 'U 49 thil:d spot followed in order by Don Co!li.ns, Dick Conly, Jack· 66 ''Guibert, '41 , ............... ,.RE ................... ~K~>lly, '40 29 · Pearson, Ga:le Hoffman and \Doc\ Maines. 60 *Balch, '41 ................... QB .......... : . . . . . . . . . *Rlhl, '40 12 Vannler, '41 ................. I.B ................. . Kramer, '42 27 55 '''Pahie, '40 .................. RB ................... *Ryan, '41 31 SantOl'o and Melewicz tied with 56 Joe Annese for first against Ver- mont in 1938. Vermont still has Ketcham, who finisted second to this tl io, but there are only two other men remaining from last fall. Union, on .the other hand, will have · veteran men running in first, sec- ond, third, fomth and seventh po- sitions. The team will arrive in Burling- ton in time for supper tonight and plans have been made to return early tomorrow night. PARAMOUNT PETE'S 22 Church St. Ph. 1613 \TOPS in SARATOGA\ for Union Dates Fer.turing the NEW Marine Room 78 *Hammerstram, '40 .......... ·FB ................. Mugford, '42 33 *Varsity Lettermen GUERRA PHARMACY We deliver all kinds of sandwiches as well as any drug needs. Call early .•• deliveries 'till II p. m. 25c minimum on deliveries. Phone 6-9419 600 Union St. cor. Barrett STOP AT THE ESSO SIGN NITCHMAN WISHES HAM..'\IERSTROM LUCK ON EVE OF TRINITY GAME. Completely Renovated Come in and Enjoy Yourself lineup: John Adarnzevich, left end; Larry Howe, left tackle; Howard Berger, left guard; Walter Hochuli, . center; Eruct May, right guard; Douglas Slingerland, right tackle; Art LeRoy, right end; Ken Sharpe, quarterback; Fred Wikoff, left half- · back; Don Quigley, right halfback; and Ed Green, fullback. Don Gir- oux will probably spell Sharpe at calling signals, while Sam Coppola, Frank England and Paul Santee should also see service in the back- field. Two members_ of the frosh back- field have had previous experience on freshman teams, Frank England having played with last fall's R P.I. frosh and Don Quigley having quarter backed on the strong Cub team of last year. Quigley will do the punting. Latest Swing Records IOc Esquire 19c, 3 for SOc Come in and browse around -Your Favorite Magazines 3c, 4c, 5c, 7c BACK N'UMBER MAGAZINE STORE 627 State St. FILL UP ON GAS AT SCOTTY'S Super-Service Gas - Oil - Lubrication Radios - Batteries - Tires Accessories Cor. NOTT TERRACE and LIBERTY • l\f• u• tlhi'IJit.t• Gazette Press Printers The nicest thinq next to your neck -an Arrow collar • If you want to look super-swell on your next date, here's how: Get yourself some of our .brand new Arrow starched collars to crown your handsomest neckband shirt. We have some of the slickest styles ever concocted. You'll like the economy and comfort of Arrow collars. Neckband Shirts $2 up Collars 25c each Corner Van Vranken & Nott Streets Complete Lu brication Auto Accessories Battery Service Tires W. & G. SCHUHL Follow Arrow And You Follow The Style Duncan Lord Kent Walton DATING TONIGHT? WHEN you want to look your best for an important date, no other article of apparel creates more the impression of immaculate attire than an Arrow white starched collar worn with a solid colored or striped Arrow neckband shirt. With any one neckband shirt you can vary the style of the collar to suit your mood or your girl friend. You'll like the smart appearance and economy of Arrow starched collars. See your dealer today regarding this high style I 94q fashion. ARROW COLLARS SHI~TS • • • TIES • HANDKERCHIEFS . . . UNDERWEAR

• i :I ·,,,' .I Page Four Crosby Explains Tax Allolments Reveals That $9,900 Is Distributed Among Fourteen Activities Reporting on the expenditures for student a:ctivities and reviewing the history of the Student Tax Committee, Henry L. Crosby, '41, said in daily assPm·bly on Wednes- day that approximately $9,900 is collected from ~tudents C'ach year. This money is distribut-ed over some fourtC'Pn acti1·iUes ranging ft·om one cent for the Chl'istian Association to $2.73 and $3.40 for other activitiE>s. Before the advent of a student tax, activitil',; had been hampered becaus~ of Jack of money to pur- chase equi-pmPnt or to provide for adc<JUate Jeadet tihip, Crosby said. E8pecially hard hit were th£' ath- letic teams which were struggling alung· with poor £'C1Uipment, little coaching and inadequate !taveling funds. ThPy had dPp<mdecl upcn thE> passing of a hat by the man- a~.:.f'n; for mone-v. Thi~ ·vra~~ remM ediP<l by th<' ii-ltroduetion of an athlPtie tax paid in the tuition. OthPr aPtivitie~ thPn a~ked for allotments which were gt·anted and the student tax was increased to over forty dollars. Followii-tg an investigation by the Student Council which revealed wastp in expenditures, the tax was :;-epat ated from the athletic fund. Activities were required to draw up a budget which was argued be- fC't e a StudC'nt Tax Co.nmlttee com- pc~ed of flve student\' appointed by the Pre>'idPnt of the Council and a faculty m!'mbez. They were given the tina! say with rpgard to thP mon£'tary ap,propriations for thP variou~ activities. Crosby closed his speech with the statement that \Once in a while you hear criticbms of om· present tax system. Ther£' is prob- ably a basis for thh• dit>cussion, for I strongly doubt that the plan is pezfect. A comparison, however, of thP way t hr activities are financed today with the methods of the past will reveal such an improvement that we are apt to overlook its present weaknesses.\ -- --0 - -- Freshmen To Attend First Exchange Party Frederic A. ·wyatt has announced t lle final plans- for t!w fh st Union- Skidmore freshman patty of the ~Taz· to hP hP!<l on the Union Col- IC'gP campus tomonow afternoon and Pvening. Thl• Skid mote freshmen will ar- t ive on thP campus at one o'clock and will meet at the president's rome l'nion freshmen will gather there at quat·tet after one to meet the it date:<. The Garnet Key So- ciety will be in charge of introduc- t;ons. Th£' gr.mp will then move to Alex- ande! FiPld where thPy will see the last quarter of the frpshman foot- ball game with the Kent School and the complf'!f' varsity gam£' with Trinity. Following the game the ft·eshmen will bP sNved dinner in HalP House at five o'clock. The ft·eshman football team has been invited to eat dinner with the group, The freshmen will bP allowed to use their weekly meal tickPts in pay- ment fm· the din-ner. After the dinner a dance will be held in Hanna Hall for building health in mind and body Amsterdam Dairy MILK 2 glasses before retiring Repeat Daily Phone 6-2351 for Daily Delivery SHIRTS $1.29 HATS Feathe.rweights Silk Trims and Rough Mixtures $2.00 Edison Hats 309 State St. (2 doors from Erie Blvd.) 'Joe' Paul Enjoys Role of Instructor By GRANGER TRIPP, '43 \I still feel more like a student than an instructor. I'J.J probably get more out of the courses than the students.\ So spoke Joe Paul, instructor in Electrical Engineer- ing, member of the class of 1938, and ex-lacrosse star. Mr. Joseph E. Paul would be a more conventional way of describ- ing a member <!lf the faculty, but it is typical of \Joe's\ position at Union that he has as yet failed to adopt thl' usual formality of the faculty. Mr. Paul knew many of JOHEPH I<~. PAUL, '38 the pt esent Junior:;o and Seniors wh<'n he was an undergraduate, and has had, he says, a hard time ad- justing himself to the perspective of a faculty member. Aftpr graduating from Union in 1938, Joe Paul returned to his high school alma mater, the Baltimore Polytechnic Institute, as a teacher. He also served as lacrosse coach and assistant coach of hockey. He hope.•, he says, to serve as Fred Wyatt's assistant in coaching ftesh- man lacrosse at Union. He played on the freshman and varsity la- crosse teams while at college and was captain of the varsity lacrosse team. Less reticent about Mr. Paul's college accomplishml'nts was a News Bureau t·elease from 1938, Working his way through college, being captain of the Jac1 o:o.;e team and \the most brilliant hockey playet· in college\ and his cou1 se in !'iectl'ical engineering did not deter \Joe·\ from earning the Dag- gett Prize for being \excellent in conduct and character,\ according to the News But·eau release. Questioned about his opinions of extra-curricular activities in their relation to class work, \Joe\ re- plied by stressing thl' contributions of athletics to a students training. He was particularly enthusiastic: about his own sport, la<~rosse, which he described as more spontaneous· than football. However, he warned against allowing athletics to inter- fere with scholarship, suggesting one hour a day as a reasonable time to be allotted to the various sports. When student-faculty relations were brought up, Mr. Paul reiter- ated that he hardly felt qualified to discuss the faculty point of view after such a short time. He agreed, l:.owever, that his closer touch with ; 1 - the student body was an advan- tage, although he still maintained that he would like the added re- spect of a greater difference in age. IDEAL BARBER SHOP 448 State St.\ EXCELLENT BARBERS \Come in and Try Our Haircuts\ THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1939 October 6, 1939 IN THE MAIL October 4, 1939 Dear Editm·: I was quite pleased to read through your edito!'ial \No Park- ing\ at~d find no Concordiensis plan whereby Union's campus might be converted into a system of speedways ending in combined ramp garages and lecture halls. Our campus is certainly com- pact enough to promote walking to classes. tinciden tally, this would make a good editorial topic.) I do not wish to appear to be a pt·agmatist, but, as I say, the tmf- ftc problem becomes more acute each year. If we don't alleviate it now, there may bP a ti•ne when we may have to stop for red lights, and maybe go again>'! that funda- mental concept that no two bodies can occupy the sa1ne space at, etc. Instead of more pat king space let\s have a Retrogression to Bi- pedal Transition campaign. A Dodging Pedestrian. October 3, 1939 To The Editor of The Conrordiensls: The Japanese d!'struction of books in China and the dislocation of all the schools in the north of the roun- try have ct eated such H dearth of text books that schools are unable to eany on their work. I have bt•<'n apppaJed to hy fornl<'r pupils of mine, now teaching in China, to send them text-books, fot· the teach- ing of English especially. I am ready to pay transportatoin costs on these, if they could be provided. WiJI any student who has text-books in English which he dues not need, leave it at my office for, China? I \hould like text;; of all sorts, gram- mars, composition books, histot ies. plays. poems -- in fact, anything which will make the teaching of English in schools of China again possible. Very truly yours, George H. Danton. Louis Wasserman QUALITY MEAT MARKET 354 B'way Ph. 4-3364, 4-3365 Douw F. Beekman Gasoline - Brake Service U. S. Tires - Motor Tune-up Exides - Lubrication • Let Us Prepare Your Car for Winter 601 UNION ST. Open Until II P. M. Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market OUR M 0 T T 0 \Quality - Service Satisfaction'' 598 Broadway For Better Values in a friendly, dignified atmosphere. O'MARA'S New Restaurant • Good food and drink \The white place with the picket fence.\ Ill WASHINGTON AVE. . 1 11 Outing Club To Sponsor · 1 Two Trips Over Week-end !:.:;;=;;;::;===;;;:;;========.! FrPd Wyatt has announced two CRITIQUE At Pmctor's The Real Gary Cooper. tlips fot\ the 01:1ting Club this Gloi'y, week end. One group will go to the North Creek cabi·n and the -other will hllre to the Princeton Hills on Sunday afternoon, leav- At the State--Nurse Edith Cavell, Anna Neagle. A new classi:fieation fot· movies ing from the Memorial Chapel at lias been inaugurated with the 2 o'clock. showing of Fast and Fm·ious. Pre- The Outing Club is seek-ing to viously the custom was to list make an arra:ngemCJat so that films as Class A or Class B, ac- members of the club who are cording to merit; but with this film away on a weelrend trip will be the new listing of Class PU is be- give·n Sunday Chapel credit if a gun and the first member of the· service is held at the cabin. grouping sets a standard which it. will be difficult for future films to follow. May the Class PU have few. very few, 'tis misery to sit through them. Few pictures are so poorly dii'ected, so vilely acted and such poor entertainment as this picture· with Ann Sothcrn and Franchot Tone. But there is no need to blame th(: actors alone; the entire cast is at fault as well as· the directive staff. This picture is an outstand\ ing example of poor direction cou- pled with hammy acting. It is half-baked ha,;h, The in- ft·ediPnts are poorly mixed and the textme is Iough. It was not leav- ened with humor or any ooftening ~ubstance. \Vhi;:>pecl together hur- ri!'dly and served quick!;,- to £'S- capP the notire of patron~. its parts ---------- il\ntut'n Just around the corner on Easte1•n A~-<>nue Quality Ice- Cream Ught Lunches OPEN TILL MIDNIGHT C. S. M 0 0 D Y Optometrist Eyes Examined, GlassC's Fitted 115 B'way Telepho~e 6-5747 Tht E'e Doors from State St. Restaurant • Tap Room Delicatessen GOLD'S ALWAYS POPULAR SI!.VER D·INER Erie Boulevard Quality Food-~Always Open One step from State St. 'blue' Coal- Fuel Oil Seeds Fertilizers HIRAM J. McCAIN COMPANY 306-314 Union Street PHONE 4-4448 a1 c tht ec lions plus a pint of tmin- er, val'ied sizes. of shapes of ill- prepared bathing beauties, two and a half cops, two murders, ' two faintings, one rare book seller, his weathered wife <Ann Sothernl and e·nough other loose ends so that the film also bears likeness to the wonder head of Mc>dusa. C. H. M. w® HOD RICE Products for Better Quality FRO-JOY and JERSEY ICE CREAM Cream - Crest Milk Cream and Dairy Products PHONE 4-3121 I'!SSO·SERVICIENTER Expert Repairing and Lubrication-All Make Cars ATLAS TIRES- BATTERIES - ACCESSORIES Cor. Jay & l.ilnio~n St. Phone 6·4342 PINE GROVE DAIRYg Inc& 61 !.:RiE ~LVD. PHONE 4·7741 Watch and Jewelry Repairing Engraving JAY JEWELRY CO. COR. STATE and CENTER STS. ~~••u••••M•••••••••••••••;••••••••aw•••••••••n••••••••••••~•••••••••i•m••~ • Ill • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Ill II • • • • • • • After the Game • .. • II • • Follow the Crowd • • • • • • • II • I! • i to • i • • • • • • • • • • • • • • II • • • • • Ill II • • • • • • ~ THE VAN CURLER ~ • • • • Ill • 5 TAP ROOM i • • • • • • • • • • • Ill • • R • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ti' I' ~ ut. . -o!.L,__.,-l ;. r.1., l 7 f r~,;_- -L.JJI-~-------- • • • !.!;;;;==;;;;;;==;;;;;;;;;;;;i;;;;;;;'i;:;=;;;;;:f;;;;;;\J' !flliii.IIZiiBB •• B'IiiBIIIIII 1 1iliBIII'li'BIII.BIIi.BIIBIBB•I•BIB••••aaiii!IM.II!!I•IIIIIIII!I.lllll~·l~JI;B,I·~···= I I I i I ! ! f' I i I t I I i Ba To 1 With Z-511 Vol. LXI Bus in WiU Com11 Secc On ( lndu W. Gib the Unite· noetce wi hPforr t l ('o!lege C Govet·nm' day by Sayer pr< Carey. the dinm vember 1 day con! hP: \The tre Eur' Man's V Fox will pet· to b Ltmcb Ev.ran reau of the So< Washin~ Jnncheot place V delegate Profess< side at Dr. Ch2 of the uress ol ic will <'mployt tion to lief.\ A pa jf'ct: i.aws: J'IOVed C:hapel. MiUon sion ol ment York; nation: United ··rq of Troy, body a Guth, ;\nnuil ~ocon~ H. E.: insura Comp! Forun At will a lege ' !inC C 1 r.e s• ll fOI husin (~OV€1 be hE F. D Harv :>cho< ~nd ! cd ir lhe f llf'l', wiJI not ~ ~essi1 Holli Th is to 1rorn t~C'ID11 man Pul To 0 ing Kel nee: gi111 5:4~ wit by Lat enc fOI\ jec· anc giv me anc '1 wh un fot en· of Hl

• • • • Iii • • • • • • • • • • • 0 Iii • • • II • • • • • • Jiil • • • • • • • • II II • • • • • • • i • • • • • • • • • • • II • • a • • Ill • • • • • • • • • • • • • • II • • • • • • • • • a II • • Ill f I L I i . I. ! I I i' I i i > I I !' I • trttsts Bamd To Travel With Team Sophomores Plan Winter Dance Z-511 PRICE FIVE CENTS Vol. LXIII., No.7 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1939 ==============~========================~====~===============r==·======~:.~======r=============:=: Freshman Class President freshmen Elect Library Dungeons: 'Aba.ndon Hope, All Ye Who Dare To Enter Here' ·Student Failures In Libra~ry Course To Be Announced Business Experts WiU Discuss Common Problems Second Conference On Government and Industry, Starts Nov. None but the lonely heart can~·;,-----­ lmow the s0rrows of a student, nwon. With both a1ms extended, embroiled in the la:by·r.inth of the all unnecessary armament such as ltb1ary d1:1:ngeons, seeking out some notebooks, pencils, eta!. abandoned, masty tome, incapacitated by alter- the hapless student turns t0 new nate darkness and dtafts of damp fields to conqaer, bJi.ndly, trackless- air. Anyone whn has found himself ly lost in the subterranean depths. intrepid enough to ventm e below Test to Be Given As Alternative To Repeated Course 1 he main floGr of the Nott Memo- In the course of his wandel ings, t ial Library knows exactly against he may encoanter one of the Dwel- W. Gibscm Carey, PresideRt of the United States Chamber of Com- 1nel ce wiH be a pl'indple speaker hefor~ the sL•cond annual Union rollege Conference on Industt·y and Government, it was announced to- day by Professor Mortimer F. Sayer program chairman. what ten ific odds he is set. lers. in the Cl ypt, who, legend teH The names of freshman librar' At the bottom of the staircase, us, have become ensnaTeu in the coutse failure,; wHl be sent to the th<' feat·Jess individual encGunters maze of the book ;;tacke, and wha office of the dean this week. ac- a switchboard on his left hand side, have been known to remain there ·CO!ding to Helmer ~'ebb. college toward which he grot>eS question- for years, growing long beards, librarian and instructot· in the li- ingly, according to the wise direct·ion ,;hrinking from any human encoun- btal y course, and added that the und admoniHon of the Seven Li- ter gibbering al newcomers in the list wHl be available in the ncar 'bl'aty Sages, with whom he has foreign tones oi Ice landis or San- future. consulted beion:: Gescending. Nine t<kirt, gleaned fl·om the multitudes A five dollar repeated course fee chaNces to one, nothing will happen. uf volumes which surround them will be charged to all students who And then again, if the adventure- on all sides in their imprisonment. have failed the course and each will some individual happens to tum a Willoughby, in his treatise on the bP required to repeat the c0mse switch, selected by a process of subject, has termed these Dwellers du1 ing the next semester. Mr. Webb eeny-meeny-miney-moe, which, par- the \Librovori or Devourers of (•xplained that the majority of fail- C'nthetically speaking, will not be Books, although Kent, on the oth- mes were due to over-cuts dming the one he wanted, some remote sec- er hand, ·holds that they have been the first semster course. Carey, Union '18, will speak at the dinner meetin;! Wednesday, No- vember 1, the first day of the two- day conference, and his topic will he: \The Effects Upon Business of tre European 'iVar: A Business Man's Viewpoint.\ Dr. Nixon Ryan Fox will be toastmastPt' at the din- I•er to be held in Hale Boase. Ltmcheon Meeting Wednesday Ewan Clague, director of the Bu- reau of Research and Statistics of the Socia1 Security Commission, Washington, D. C., will address the luncheon meeting .;;chcduled to take place Wednesday noon after the delegates reg.istel in Old Chapel. Professor Russell A. Hall will pre- side at the luncheon meeting and Dr. Charles N. Waldron, secretary of the collegE will deliver the ad- dress of welcome. Mr. Clague's top- ie will be: \Wider Aspects of Un- employment Insurance; It's Rela- tion to Old Age Pensions and Re- lief.\ A panel discussion on the sub- i<\ct: \Unt>mployment Insurance I.aws: How Can They Be im- p! oved '?\ will take place in the Old (;hapel. Those who will speak ate: tion of the cavernous basement known to seize upon 1 ats or crick- A possible alternative in the form will be plunged into sta1 tling bril- cts for sustenance. of a test will be presented to those liance. As he wends his hazardous There is still hope for the pioneer, who desire it instead of repeating way toward the gleam, little should \'lowever, if he can contrive to the course Mr. Webb announced. he be surprised if the illumination reach the one pHlar of safety, The test will probably be in the Euddenly blinked out again into known as the Center Basement form of a problem, representative uushing blackness, and as he stifles Post, on which are mounted still of a typical lib1ary situation. A s\reams of vexation and fear, he several more switches, which his- ·fee of one dollar would be charged plods into a stack of Goethe or tory records as being even practi- for the make-up test, receipts of Congressional Records. eal H the light combination is which will be added to the libra1y Shades of Stux and Acheron! It chosen. This is salvation, this the fund. i~ defeat to tm n back now. What prize, this the goal for the indiv- Mr. Webb also told of plans for the situation lacks, pe1·haps, is a idual's dauntless perseverance! a new library course which will be werewolf or two, snarling about his And loudly may the book stacks presented to the class of 1944. In ankles on all fours, or on all twos, ring with his joyous cries of addition to the fout· regular lee- depending on the phase of the ·•Eureka! I have found it!\ tures given this year by the library ------------------ ~taff, there wHl b\ an exhibit in the library exhibit case for study Winner of Berg Cup To Be Revealed Oct. 28 Sophomores Plan Winter Dance Armand Feigenbaum Made Chairman of Executive Committee and a set of films foi use in the optigraph to aid the student in re- viewin\' his entire work for the term at his leisure. The English de- padment will continue the supple- mentary library work it instigated last year. - --O------ Berg, Paul to Speak At Engineers Meeting Class Office.rs For Coming Year W. BRUCE MAY ,Band to Travel To Away Games Will Play at Hamilton And Williams This Fall, Male Indicates May, Shar-pe, Wilkin And Horton Receive Posts in Close Election W. Bruce May was elected presi- dent of the fl c·s:tman class in a special class cle<'lion held yester- day morning in the Old Cha1wl. Kenneth Sharpl' was votl'll \'1ee President. Other officPt·s e·]PC'tPd wet·e William L. \\'ilkin, ,;cctetary and Robert T. E. Horton, tr pasuret. The election was \ve·1 y vC'ry clo~p\ Lou Cat!', President of th,• StmlPnt Council, said. The method of election was the same as that used !n evc•r y class l'lection. A ::;heet listing 23 candi- dates was distributed and the voters ,.,erp asked to mark four men in the 01 der of their preference. May was graduated from the Ad- rnil·al Farragut Academy in Toms River, N. J., last June. His father was g1aduatcd from Union in 1919. A resident of Ard~ley-on-Hudson, he is pledged to Alpha Delta Phi fraternity. May· Becomes Council Member Sharpe, the Vice President. comes from Pasadena, California. He was graduated ft om the Webb School in Claemont, Califomia last June. He The Union College band will ac- company the Garnet football team' on its trips to both the Hamilton and Williams games this fall, ac- cording to Faculty Leader Charles T. Male. The band which is under the Ieadership of E. Dickinson Gliffith, Jt·., played at the R.P.I. contest in Troy last year and at the Hamilton and. Williams games :s pledged to Chi Psi. Wilkin lives in Schenectady and attended Nott Tenace High school. Horton is a graduate of Myn- derse Academy in Seneca Falls, N. Y. He is pledged to the Beta Theta Pi fraternity. two years ago. Conflicting class schedules and c.,ther extra-curricular events have greatly hampered the afternoon practices which are instrumental in the proper organization of the band, Mr. Male explained. MiHan 0. Loysen. head of the Divi- sion of Placement and Unemploy- ment Insurance, State of New York; Julius Emspak, Union. '35, national sccreta1 y-treasurer of the United Electrician and Radio Worl{- ··rq· of America; H.. Smith Payne, of Troy, vice president of Cluett, Pea- body and Company. Inc.; Geon;e W . Guth, New York City, manager, Annuities and Benefits Department. ::Socony-Vacuum Oil Company, and H. E. Neil, pxpelt on unemployment insurance for the General Electric Company on the comptroller's staff. Public announcement of the winners of the Berg Scholarship Cup for the year 1938-39 and the Galis Cup will be made on Oc- tober 28 according to a statement made today by Miss Frances Travis. The Berg Cup, donated by Dr. Ernest J. Berg, is award- ed to the fraternity group with the highest scholarship average for the year. Last year the Kap- pa Nu flatemity won this dis- tinction . The Garis Cup, donated by Charles F. F. Garis, is awarded to the dormitory attaining the highest scholastic average and last year was won by North Col- lege Dormitory. Louis J. Carr, '40, p1 esident of the Student Council, announced to- day that the Sophomore class would Pponsor a winter dance to be held on Saturday, December 2. The plan for the affair is the outcome of the desire on the part of the class of · 12 for further class functions, and is a direct outgrowth of last year's All-Freshman Dance which brought forth a great show of class spirit. Dr. Ernest Berg, head of the electl'ical engineering department. and Mr. Joseph Paul, instructo:·. Supplementing its participation will be the featured speakers at in the athletic activities and ral-· th·' American Institute of Electr•- lies the ba:qd will continue its cal Engineers' initial meeting of monthly asseEQ.bly serie,;. and will the ~ '-ar. ,particpiate in ihe coming football Donald Campbell, '40, President rally to be held in the gymnasium of the Society, announced that any on Friday evening:. Bruce May, President of the freshman class, automatically be- comes a member of the Student Council. This system, inaugur&ted last year with the acceptance of a new constitution, gives the fresh- man class earlier representation and one more man on the coun- cil. Two additional freshmen will be appointed to the council with the consent of the faculty early in November. Both scholarship and qualities of leadership will be co.lsidllred in appointing men for these positions. --- -0--·--· Forum Scheduled in Old Cha}Jel At 10 a. m. Thursday, delegates will attend the regular Union Col- lege daily as:;Pmbly pmgtam and unc of theit· number will address Dean Galis announced last year that the fraternities had attained the highest scholastic average in 11 years dming the 1937-38 academic year • inte. ested students would be cor- . , dial! . invited to the meeting which Charles H: C?mles, stud~nt man-. will \e held on Wednesday, Octo- ager a~d Gnff1t~ h\lye ':ss1sted Mr. ber 18 in the Electrical Engineer- Male m the 01ga1)lzat10n of the lng Building. band. Alumni To Attend College Week-end Programs Issued 1 r.e studPnts and faculty. At 10:30 :• forum on \The Effects Upon Eusiness of Continuance of Heavy (~ovemmental Expenditures\ will be held in the Old Chapel. George F. Doriot, assistant dean of the Harvard University Graduate :lchool of BusinC'SS Administratian, ~nd another ,;peaket to be announc- ed in the near future will address tr.e forum. Dr. Frederick L. Bron- 11<'1', associate professor of histOl y, will preside. The speakers have not yet been acquit ed for ~he fil1a.l session T.hursday noon m Hale House. Faith in Others Urged by Paul· Voicing his opinion on the need for such an affair Carr said, \Last year the class of 1942 ran one of the most enjoyable dances that I have ever had the pleasure of wit- nessing. I think the sophomores have started a fine tradition with these inexpensive class dances which afford the men opp01tunity to get together as a class. Such functions are conducive to genuine elass spirit.\ Philomathean Society Attempts Intercollegiate Debate Innovation ----------- By ARMAND FEIGENBAUM The first experimental attempt, as far as can be ascertained. in the United States to convert round table discussion into inter- collegiate debate hus been made by the Philomathean Society. The Soeiety expects that this new type of debating will form the keynote of the widespread policy of the re- organization which they plan for the club . The club believes that the first and greatest advantage of this system, which is to remain in the experimental stage for the rest of the year, will be the immediate sp1 eading of the openings for in- tercollegiate debate presented by new men. Since speaking ability is not necessary, many tnen who were interested in debating, but felt that they lacked the necessary physical equipment, will be given a chance. There will also be wider opportunity for personal academie profit for t}4e men in the field of debate, than. under the old style of debate. To Graduates, Friends For Coming Festivities Invitations· for the annual Col- lege Week-end to be held on Octo- ber 13, 14, and 15 have been is- sued through the Graduate Coun- cil, according to Charles N. Wal- dron, secretary of the CounCil. The invitations, which have be~n sent to Union alumni and their friends, outline a program wo1icn will seek to acquain~ the vis!tors \with the functions of the Coll•·s~ as represented by its cla:>s~s. tts athletics, and its alumni orgaai- zations.\ The purpose of the Conference Sunday Chapel Speaker Explains God's Kingdom Superior is to ·bring together representatives 1 rom the administrative and per- ~onnel de pal tments of business and manufacturing concerns. ----0 Public Speakinq Course To Begin in Old Chapel Speakil~g in Sunday chapel, the Rev. James A. Paul said that the human race should continue to have faith in itself and in God, since it is the characteristic of be- liev,ing in oneself and tne protection of the Lord which distinguishes man from the animal, mineral and vegetable kingdoms. Dr. Paul is pas- to1 of St. James church, New York Commenting on the organization of last year's class dance, Carr stat- ed that the Junio1· Class might well take note of the committee ar- rangement composed of a central- ized executive committee and a large active working committee which the class dances have devel- oped. ----a--·- For some time, the Philoma- thean Society had been consider- ing the proposal to drop old style Chr . 1 st·tan Association debating which had fallen into · disfavor on the campus for some To Meet T his Evening new and more appealing style, but due to the feeling that it would Twenty lettl)rS have been sent out to schools with which Union has de bated in the past, proposing a meet under this new system of debate, and to date seven accept- ances have been received. Included Friday afternoon's rcgbt tat wn will be climaxed in the <!V'?lllng with a football rally in th<~ .,ym- nasium. Schedules will be issued at the administration buildin;:;. Optional classes in Publtc Spe<' k- ing will be offered by Profess(•.r Kellogg in room 106 General Engi- neering Building on Mondays, be- ginning October 16. between 5 and 5:45 p. m. The course will begin with a series of lectures, followe•l by illustrations and questions. Later, members of the class are encouraged to~peal' fro~ the plat·· form for three to five mmutes, sub- ject to criticism by the instructor and the audience. Practice will be given in reading, speaking from memory, from notes, tlxtempore and impromptu. City. Dr. Paul began by telling the st01 y of Fredellck the Great, who ~·isited a school in his realm and asked the pupils several questions concerning the satus of things s~r- 1 ounding them. First. he que ned \To what kingdom do sheep be- long?\ The repiy was that they be- longed to the animal kingdom. He then asked to what kingdom their desks and blacl,boards belonged. He was told that they were mem- · bers o f the vegatable and minero.l kingdoms• . \Faith in others changes sinners to saints; faith in ourselves trans- forms us mto something divine; faith in God will enable us to con- This course is open to students whom the Dean considers eligible under the .scholarship rules. Un- fortunately, freshmen are at pres- ent kept from attendance because of a conflict with the lecures on quer our Hygiene. eluded. troubles,\ Dr Paul con- The Unic>n College Chri,;tiar. As- be extremely difficult to develop bociation will hold it:; second meet- any sufficiently universal style of ing of the year in Sillman Hall to- debate, little attempt at change was night at 7:30, according to Brad made. This year, however, Dr. Hastings, president of the society. Douglas Campbell, adviser to the club. worldng with the nucleus of in the list of colleges to be met are Dartmoutq and St. Lawrence . The Philomathean Society also plans a new system in respect to the physieal plan of its intercol- legiate debating in that there will be organized, in addition to the varsity, both junior varsity and freshmen teams. The former will act as more or less of a sparring partner for the varsity team, and· will replace men of the upper bracket, should any eventuality arise. The freshman team will be formed to afford an opportunity to The meeting will consist in 1 e- this year's vat sity debating team, ports by the various committees, has attempted to develop a co- including those on chapel ushering, ordination of round table discus- the Freshman Cider Party. and sian, with old style debating, at- Boys' Clubs aosistanee. tempting to use the best points of Officets of the Chri~tian Associa- each system. Under the new plan lion for the coming year in addi- of debate, there will be no deci- tion to Hastings, include Tom RaJ- sion rendered, no official speeches ~ton, vice president; Clarence Me- given, or any actual cases present- Cain, secretary, and Sheldon Evans, ed. While teams from various col- treasurer. ·leges will meet Union in what is Approximately thirty to thirty- . technically considered i n t e r co 1- five .students have indicated that legiate .debating, there will be no they will be active in the associa- ·impartial assignments of sides, tion this year. accot ding to Hast- and men will uphold the argument· ings, who added that any member in which they believe, rather than of the student body was welcome the one to which they have been at tonight's meeting. assigned . various men in the yearling class whc., under the old system, would have been forced to wait two years, before being given this opportu- nity. [~---..~ M£,1 ... :: .... Graduate Council Meets Saturday On Sat11rday morning all alumni are invited to attend stude:1~ classes as well as daily as.<embly at 10 o'clock. The fall meeting of the Graduate Council will !Je held in the Trophy Room of the gymnasium also at 10 o'clock. The Council will serve a buffet lunrh- eon in Silliman Hall at 12.30 for alumni, faculty and their fricrcis. In the afternoon the group will attend the freshman and varsity football games. Immediately after the varsity game the Schenectady Alumni Association will receive alumni and guests at a tea in Hale House. The week-end activities will end with the regular Sunday serviN• in the Memorial Cha.pel and Dr. Tidmarsh's organ recital at four in the afternoon.

Page Two TilE CONCOH.DIENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1939 orntt.ror ! w~~~~y ,~: ~~~~~~E:~:~~~nion fru-! I The Unhealthy Animal II! MEGAI!~q!~E ~~L .•~1 CRITIQUE .!J \ tel'llities have iumfg-urated the commendable! ! If you could go to elocution school, ~~==============.!. 1 I And 1.-m n to curb that me!','aphon- Fut·~tll.ll !8i7 1 cu~tom of sponsoring- a father's y;eek-end at It s<:,·m~ that L:nion ?nn add an- · i!' vuicr· At Ptc·Jctm'·· !Hollywood Caval- \\'hich father:; of fraternity memben; are in- other _llem to tts long llst 01 hoary If ·ou coul;l drop the accent and cadl'. Alice Faye and Hubby DoH twcllttons mcan1ng the annual ) h 1 1 Ameche. \'ih>d to be g-uests ur the house for a week- cry ftom. the Coi~eordy conc<•ming \''1, ttl~-i~l;·o~hat evt>n Ptexy would At the Stat<· Nlll'St' Edith Cave-ll. em\. In this way fatlwrs are afforded an sehoul Sjlll'lt at football ttl11l'. Why ' t'PjoicP; Anne Nea~ll'. \I (.'au\t! p,·,sa P,urJit ./Jscll .. :\[t·Jnl•tr ''f 1'.111 \.., .... .,l.tittl l',.l\tc:at' l\'ll·k.. ~:tt.·l tJl-..: I lo\11111 ·•1 I ht· t 't. J,.~, •tit l1J...!<'\1 Toll' .l.l!tLll lit·\\~-\•.tJII'J ••1'--tiH ;:d;~tl:~-.. \I l \t\1111 t'odl··~~-. l'tildt\-ll• '\ T:l-·:-oti.t) .tl d } t.t\Lt_\ t·hnnu.;h· EtlttutEtl~ u,.,-~Jn~~--~tl!ljj~,!~-1lall.- -f111-'11 l·, !l.gt· { '.IIH!Ill- T· l··td:~tlll\ ~ ·h 1:• <\t.t• ~. l-111.:.: Puhlit'lt-twu Utfh·~·. Tttt -~t·.·lZd •. l'l!':-<'\ ~; . ..-1 :-\l.~t· ~~. ~ \llt • t 1 t...ul , :\' \\ . l• ~ • '1'•. • ·I, • l I 1 11 hultl•-d .ll ill•' :'.h,.,. <Ltd~ 111~: li!Ll•<' .l\\ ~tlti(L•I \ l.t:-o~ :\l.1J, :\1 I': 1'{. ::-itdl\'t'll!•d<'ll !•l.ll j•,\ •··Ill a ttlp~, ;ji;;tHI .l ~I;Ll. t\t 1\t ltd '·tl\ \, htl'' 111 t>t• l''!ll'',o·d ~l.dt:-- Senior Board Lawrenre \'. I'ellr-ttiPr, Jr ....... Editor-in-Chief 24 N. S. South College 6-9728 Hobt•rt R. ·Eisner ............ Busine,;.; Manager Kappa Nu House -1-7331 C. Hus,t'll Dt>yo..... . ....... :Managing Editor Chi P::;i Lodge -1-6521 Gr-orgt• !.oudwidt l't•el,:. . . . . . . Spm L< Editor 83R Union St 6-3543 Christopht>l' ::u. Fah~· ..... NPW> Editol Delta Cpsllon House -1-1922 Edwin A. Fitz, ,Jr ................ Ft•at ut e Editor 12f.4 Glt'nwutH.l Blv<l 4-~lltil ,fu.ck Rahinowitz. .......... Cireulatiun :\1anager Phi Sigma Delt:l House - 6-0i65 REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL AO\IERTt~tNG B\' National Advertising Service, Inc. College P14blisbers RePresentative 42.0 MADISON AVo. NoW YORK, N.Y. CHICAGO • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES 1 SAN FRANCISCO John LP\\ is Paul !Jeeker Junior Board Jann·~ Tv.:inin~ Hobert Sehulberg John Phillips Sophomore Board AIPxand<'r Aron\'. Armand Fi<'gPnbaum. John Gtow. Samut-1 I';n·tnoy, Jonathan Pearson, Solo- mon Bleehman B nsinP,_,S S.t.aff .\t.d~ K.t~ Ju-· .. r. l'•tl .. tttu, ~,,~,,11~ <:l~·l·tt:-lt·tt•. )ll!lla~d H:t.:.!h, l,,:t:--1\.tl\ :-'dl\\,d tz. AI thur Ita\ 1~. .\'L .• t·>Jl :\·l.d- lssul' Editor ................. ,James Twining Aesistants G1 angPl T1 ipp Solon1on I~lt•d-i.r..lan John Grow ----·-------------' Tup,day. Octobl'I 10. 1939 IT'S UP TO YOU In daily as::;embly on Thursday mo1·ning, 'il'he Concordiensis will revive it::~ mmual questionnaire, anrl will poll the student l.Jody on matters of admini::~tration and campu::; guvernment. The result:; of this poll will be published a~ soon a::~ they are tabulated. Of more intere::;t to the editorial l.Joarcl. howe-ver, will l.Je the results of the ::;econd portion of the questionnaite which i::; to be devoted to que::~tions of Concordiensis policy. Student:; will be asked to indicate the col- umns they w.ish to appem· reg-ulmly, and will be invited to make constructive criticism of the lJapei. <lon't morP tutn out. why don't they I At PlOctor's, deliVl'ting line after oppurtu11ity to become acquai11ted with the. )l'll Can it bt· the ma~1wtic voiet• . 11 ·nn a~ if each were a speech, ! . '1'lt '-' 1 h J-1 1 11 If nnt ·wuuJ.d bt• a t!amnPll-tiight • u fratl'l'llit~·. tll\ ''<>llt·~!'e, ,·tn<l •\\'J'·tll tilL' Cl>l- · u \ 1 \'· 1 nt 0 us t wm Y<' • Gar<· Couper blatT:; through as the ~ ~ \ bound. Nt•xt Frida<· tht•Jt's to bl' a lll<ll'<' dis<'ll'Pl. J .n 'd l · j' · · 1 · ' \\I • d b r a public heto in The Ht>al Glory. :..;,avl eg.ah' Ill' ol t Jell' ::lOll. tally let's gPt to tUJning out ll>t';-; '-:en p.acP e oiP Niven and the> !Jeauteous Andrea het to yc•llin~. mict ophonc t' \YL' bdie\'l' that such a medium of foste1·- /.JHI lt<'<'P a civil t0ngur. and keep Leeds give mDl·e t·han suppor mg \B acl;jack\ t:uibet t and \Putl- ro!Ps, thPy carry the pictun•. 1 .11. J ' 1 t' [ t f' t\ ..l -''! \ IJ tt I . 1 \OUl' ,;pat h d A . g L' nsl'l' rea lOlls Jt' \\'l'e'll a Jer anu :;on u <'B e>.ar wet<' !Ut·tymg wme 1 • football, JpavP the Be 1 serll Moros be ea mencan l · 1 rl I la>t \\PPk from 8001° ·,>lacn ·or 1 ,\Hd ~tick to ff' t speal\ and then are Hill !at Jet' an co leg·e is too \\'OJ'thwhile Hll cJtl.c•I' \'' fa\t t·hat thP' local,cott- ,' 1<'>'1 alone 0 Jeer~. 08 ~ · \ · , u u mowed down by mac'hine-guns and in~titution to IJe confi11ed to two o:l' three stabul:.uy slowed them down to a dynamit<'. Yet one good idea that fraternities. \\'hy could not all the fl'atel ni- hc:t $30. PayablP to tht• SchPnec- If you would only take a look at is developed i~ the idea that feat· tac!y Police· Depnrtml'nt. YOU, can be n disastrous disease---a ter- tiL•S, or e\'l'll thP entiT'l' college ::;et aside a lla\'<' anv ht<' eome-hor,l('rs evH And as!< yourself how long a rible disease of the mind. Dr. fat!JL'J'S' \\'eek·l'llll and iuvite aJl i'athl'l'~ to notkPd th~ PBi U fad<' out from patiPnt God Ligon has definite thoughts along Brown Taxi Inc. u,•ntlL•nwn. it's a \\'ill i<'t yuu hrat the air the way thb Ji.ne he think.s that fear can join in om· t:ollrge life <illring that tin1e'! ,•.o.k cf u 1 t. ThP cab pull,; up in . you do, be wo1·sl' than any other mental ftt•nt uf. sa'·, till' Al-pha Dell , \','p 11 promhw you thP answer t1 ouble. If you mi~s the bang- hou:.;e, r.ntl calm!:.- the gtoup \idles \\ould e ou · llang;ng of the We:oterns you'll Too fretJUl'll~l.v a latiJel''s sole contact J b 'd with his son's eolleg-e eonsists of the periodic in th<' front donr. a fpw hot tip- th!ill to The JRml Gio~·. sc:h.>htrship l'l'lllJl'ts anti room, l.Joard and toe~ anti out the back ·and home. 1.·~ nut that W<' abject to mict'o- With he1 debut on the screen. IP:\Ving thP puzzled eab!Jy \\ith an phon~s. Mi\s Neagle shows pt·omise of a tuition ~tatements which an· brought to his <·mpty cab and nn empty put'.>'e. u: luw,ng football games an- 1 splendid career in that medium. attention. Certainly :-;uch vicarious !'elation:; Ont• of the,,· nights Brown Inc. nounctd at time~; Tlw promise is f01thcoming <'n- is going to sl'P P;;i u li!\hts flash i~ut \\hen we hear your tin and tirely from her acting and nut :lo little to occasion cordial ft•eling·s between 011 and ofT thPn the bu~iness. Per- ttnnished tones from Nurse Edith Cavell. As sub- p:trents and collegt>. hnps thP bovs bettCl' s!Pen in their :'t mmitting all the freshmen tle as TNT the producers depict clotht•s if tiwy don't aln·~ 1 uy. wrbal crime;-;, animal-lil{e German officers, sweet, lf it is \)JO)J[Ja who lJ<'l,\-~,\ \Vll.~· 11ot tak\ bla\·e Blit'sh nUJ-;ps and pitiab! ... ~ Thm sday comP:o the ocm·i-final~ ·• \ · t j'' 1 h 1 · 1 t G · c · Th \C .. ,·;,. know the time' has come to i wounded allied soldiers. The film lJDj}JlH Jl! () Ull!' COn J( el!Cl', S 0\\' llnJ \\'lett a UP I'! as asmo. e uta way 1' 1·.\ too CllP·Sided, diu-e.stible onlv ill Kap< 1 .-main favtn·itP~. Captain takP a stand. \ \' J :1e is pa~·ing- for, and acquaint him with \LacksJ;in\ Bt·own. \Imide Two\ And , 0 _ talk on. t::lllt on. that an-i strcngly pro-Ally nations. Howeve• ou1· fl'~ttel'nitie:;, our l'l'L'itations, our social B 11 ggs and \1\lugnrt Ball\ Henyan cient itch the lilm is more subtle than man)' IL•main vety conlident. Theil only Of yours to spout has got\<'11 out that will bP coming along. Za-;u life. anrl our athletic teams'! The cost of ·trouble lies in that om· man tPam, of hand. l'itts finishes the picture with ~uc:1 an undel'taking- would nut l.Je prohibi- ·'FI<•e Pall\ Gregory. 'icur mictophonP is dead! We've good >traight acting, but in the rul!l'd the switch! start is JudiciOUS with ill-placed live, a11d the results might well lllOI e than Harkening to the cry of Ft:·,• humor :Cut oboy, if Union didn't ic~; event ion ~·eek. Septcn1ber ·!-9, 0 s d · h .l .tl.\'ll·f:-.· ,. 111 :-.· .,,_ .. lll'll~.·l' 1 · 11 Clll'I'\..J. 1 1 R 'thrill ycu atu1· ay Wit long runs, .-., \_.'\,. L_, '-u t H• 81gs c.ParPd OH• 1HlUtH 1 in a L:\~(i.-iAI\'l lN ROCHEHTE tl·t·litic> tou:?hdowns, you should see cool HI sef'Otlds. Bird baths, hut watPr but ties and dcthing we• ,. Dr. \Valter C. Langsam, profcs-' Joe E. Brown's 11 All-Americans Se-..·eJ al of our contemporaries have seen fit to officially recognize fathers and to in- vite them to participate in a college-wide fathers' \\'cek-end at which the parents are invited to live with their son:; and attend regulat· classes a:; well a:; var::;ity athletic contests with them. Could not a similar pro- g-mm be aJTanged at L'nion '? The fact that ;;c !tiL' d Ollr fraten:lti.£5 me spc.uEoring such week-ends for the second m· third consecu- tive year \\'ould tend to prove that the plan is a worthy one. Certainly the matter is de- set·ving of further considemtion. DEATH TO THE 'KNOCKER' Professional bm;eball players have a name that they apply to those of their ranks who ddigh t in de.structive criticism. These men me called \knockers\. Sadly enough, several of the IJI'eecl me loose on the campus. ieft bPhintl A b:onzP p!aque is h,•. sor of II.st8t'Y at Union ColJPge,; saving the dear old Alma Mater ing , Pnt by t'hl' p!Op!'l' authot ith·!' spol~C' on \Cct'tain Backgrounds of· f1om fin~mcial ru:n. $1.000 a Touch- to commPntl tlll'rn un their line thn Present \Var\ before u meedng down C. H. M. work. or the American Association of Student C:ouncii, lot· .shame. Last WPek. at an election. the name of J. W. Smith appeared. Knowing University \Vomen in Rochester this week the c:1mpus owrtl.ow.s with Smiths, Old Faces. New Escort Dep't:' let alone J. \V.'s, why wasn't the The mortician's daughter Vs. ~ cantlidate's history b1 ought out in George the Miller. 1 the open a little more. It might havP been a different election. The Kent pretty boys did morP ' Kap Rich Henyan had the mis- than play football. They renewed fortune to tangle with Kap Harly acquaintances with the young clast year w 1 est ling- champl Mead ladies who drop)'ed in for the RPsult: one ~ore shoulder. one week-end. If thry didn't renew, b1 oken heal'! -there was an audi- th<>y d!d one of the nicest jobs of Pnre. introducing themselves that has Recommenclat 1 ons to join the been seen here in a football's age faculty Bill, Harry and Bob of 8atUJ dsy the now-you-see-it-now-' thP V. C. UnivPr>Ity. Right now you-don't, water proof. bomb proof they hold more popularity than press box was a veritable hodge- son:e of the men on the hill. podge. lt seems that the scribes, Tlw lirst fre:ohman party was al<..ng with Milton E. missed both vi:oitl'u by thP Gerzov. Union '40. touchdowns. The \box\ is ok, but '11, '42, and '4.3. He now may quietly <>very time there was a play be;o;ond crawl back into the moth balls the 15 ymd line one of the writers unt I the si!ve1y lau~hter of the had to hang precariously by his muidPn~. the low snatls of the heel~ and ask \Hey Bud, what hap- stop;. the whooping Wyatt, and the pened?\ trrmbling sax sPction nng out once Sonthrt· for the wePk' Rosalyn CALENDAR Today 10:00 a.m.--Daily Assembly, M. Gale, Hoffman, '40. 7:30 p.m.-Classical Club meet- ing. Dr. Kellogg's home. T0pic, \Phi.Jip Melancthon, Preceptor of Germany.\ 7:30 p.m -Christian A~sociation Meeting. Silliman Hall. 'WP<ine-sday 10:00 a.m. ·Daily Assembly, Dr. Joseph D. Doty. 3:30-6:00 p.m.- -Glee Club Re- heaJsal (Entire Club) Hanna Hall. 7:00--The Faculty Dinner, Hale House. Thursday 10:00 a.m.-Daily AssPmbly, Law- rence V. Pelletier, '40, The Con- eordiensis.\ Friday 10:00 a.m.-- Daily fu;sembly, Dr Elmet A. Tidmarsh. mo1·p in Hanna Hall. I Howe. T. B. --- -· __ '·1----------1 Previous anrl more indirect method::~ of soliciting- student opinion of the paper h!tve elicited little or no re::;pon::;e, ::;o the board is resorting to the daily assembly question- naire in it::~ attempt to dete1 mine the popu- lar campus conception of a creditable news There are those who scathingly sugg-est that the faculty is compietely inadequate without any solid basis. those who cry that The Ccncordiensis is an undeveloped, unin-1 formative newspape!' without comparing it ~o publications of othe1· college:;, tho::;e who i ~meet· because athletic teams barelv mnnao·e, to keep the win:; l.Jalancing- the lo~ses witl1-l out taking in to consideration the remarkable job being· done with the available material IJ,y · .tn over-worked coaching staff. These me . out a few fields into which the \knockers\ plung-e their infectous claws. lt is not in our power to single out each i of these men. reveal hi:; identity and force • him to leave college, nor is it our hope that· ,;orne day this power will be oms. We can,' however, warn those who care for Alma Mate1· tn beware of him. He is a rodent and a hypocrite-rat-like because he bites and i then flees, neve1· leaving behind him a bit of 1 constructive thinking to correct what he be-; lieves to be an evil; hypocritical because he 1 partakes of all the advantages and luxuries that Union provides and then shouts how ' much he despises them. I NEXT ~pring, when a hotel-on-wheels rolls mto Bombay, India, some oi the citizenry may have grave doubts about their sanity. Or they may blame the blazing tropical sun. In either case, they'll be wrong. Lawrence Thaw's trans-Asiatic motorcade will be merely completing a q,ooo-mile saiari from Paris. organ. If you feel that The Concordiensis has its shortcoming·s, we ask that ~-ou indicate the::;e failings on the poll. If you can ::;ug-ge::;t addi- tional feature:; which the paper might in- clude, or other services which it can ren- der, we earnestly ask that you indicatP them. Our one aim is to edit a publication which will be informative, useful and enter- taining; if you can aid us in achieving this end \Ve will more than welcome yom assist- ance. We cannot, of course, guarantee to adopt every suggestion advanced. Several other- wise excellent proposals ·will p1·obably be re- jected because they will require an exces- sive amount of money or labor to put into effect. We do promise, ho·wever, to give every q uestionnai1·e proper consideration, and if any one grievance is found prevalent throughout the answers, immediate attempts to remedy the condition will be made. As we have attempted to point out in previous editorials, The Conc<>rdiensis is your paper, supported by your student tax funds, and therefore obliged to cater to your interests. The question which we at'e putting before you is \What are your interests?\ Not one among us believes that Union is the es::;ence of perfection, but we do realiw i that it is improving and that, although it is . old in years, it is young in spirit. But a. warning would not go amiss: De wary of the I criticism which finds its birth in destruction 1 -anrl death to the \knocl\er\ I -R. S. OUR COLLEGIATE CONTEMPORARIES A \date bureau\ bas been established by two enterp1·ising students at HAVERF(i).RD COL- LEGE. The organization will provide' dates for undergraduates UJJOn the pa.yment of a small membership fee-. Dr. Rherwood Eddy has bf'E•n chosen as tb~ first All-University Chapel service spealtl'r at the UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER. £NT£RT AINING ROYALTY W I-lEN Great Britain's King and Queen visited the ~ew York World's Fair on their international social call, 20 farmers were ahle to watch the royal pair as clost'ly as it they were entertaining Their l\lujcsties out on the farm. :ind the rural folk were 130 milt·s away irom the Fair grounds. This long-distance watching was made pos- sible by C7-E television engineers. Directed l>~ C. :\. Priest, :\l.aine '2:; and ex-Test man, radio engineer ior c;eneral Electric thev were simply proving that television pr~grarn.s could sonwtimes be received at a far greater distance than the pr<\viously supposed limit oi --10 to 50 miles. For, instantly and clearly, while the King and Queen inspected the Fair, television reproduced complete details of their \'isit to the group -·!JO miles away, atop the .1:-leldcrbcrg Hills near Sch,enectady. :\'Jot far from the scene oi this .experiment, is General ELectric's powertid new tel'evision station, \VzXB, soon to go ort the ait·. (Juite obviously, such things as q,ooe-mile trips require quite a hit more than sat•oir- faire and an adventuresome spirit. Prep- :nation, and plenty of it, was required by \lr. Thaw. This brought into the picture-· both directly and indirectly --u number oi G-E engineers. GENERAL-ELECTRIC 90-lSIF I l '. I \. I . ~ Trinity ball, o1· sh• ball a lc plays dur' ... For ances the outs. Ca1 who gaiiH ing for Bill Rya Gold whc l'Ull!1ing 1 in 8S o either pa Hillg, HlH in there plays. George l your dit with a You lo1 somersa \\'onde1· some ~~t nol at t tha-n 7< SOl' Sl' Clllll!l1e the ll l1 ()() Harval <Cnt. I. '! • I I I \ I \ game, ( '? ·n 1 fully r the gt cials! l.Je ::;ai not VE Oppo1 the Willi~ ilton, renee !.Jury. ln tratE Unic !.Jest eour 160, cste Trii rni ing last Gu: anc Ha Ca 1 wh fir \11 ch tri cl1 th Jt v-: c~ F s f

.... ] ~I- Oil •II. .er ~h. he rid ·ea ng re. Ull tre ncl tat ~ar er- :Jr. ng an tal 1g- J'lJ en, a lnl. 211- lOt uh- ict ·et. ~!.', .lm in \o'e• cny :t..;u ith the ~ed !n't . ns, see :lns let· ch- [. if. t- c, )r >n I]', e- 1a .Je w- n- )I' ,. I I r I I 1 I' I I, i I I I. I I I I THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1939 Page Three A PECK OF SPORTS GARNET AND TRINITY BATTLE TO 7-7 TIE ~·----------------------------------------------------------~----------------------- Trinity had a lot on the Union Eleven D·eadlocks Game ball, or should we say· had the In Spirited Second Half :Rally ball a lot-all except five plays during the first period Hammerstrom Plunges Over for Sole Union Score· . . . For individual perform- After Susta:ined Aerial a.nd Rushing Attack ances thel'e \'\'ere two stand- Una;blc to start an effective of-<V------~-- - ... - outs. Captain Ilmnmerstrom fensive until the second half. the \ ''llo g·•tl.ll·ed 89. '.· ·at·c·'tP bv l'USh- varsity football team ·battled up- U . T . \t St t' t\ ' • ' \' .J nil! to gain a 7-7 tie with a fast ll'lOn• nTH .Y ll lS lCS ing for the Dutchmen and. charging Trinity College eleven in llnioa l Bl d the first home game of the 1939 Trinity Bill Hyan of t 1e , ue an cam.paign Saturday afternoon. Cio!d who garnered nine l110l'e In the first period, Union !:ad h r. 11 S ·· d pos~css!on of the ball for only five n:mning t e ·ua - am t lgUl'e · plays, making one fil·st down, while in 8fi of Union's 66 plays, the Blue and Gold clad visitors ran · k' k' up S·even first downs, aml when the either pas::;mg·, JC Ing or run- quarter ended, had the ball on the Bing, and at one point he was Union two-yard line with fcJUrth. in there 011 five CO!li:>ecutive down to go. The Trinity offense ~tarted working, on tl:eir own 33, plays. . Suggestion to and in 13 play,; put the ball on Geonre Norris--attel' you get the Union eight yard marker with \ first down and n touchdown to go. your diploma you might sign In three plays the Trinity was on with a circus as an act'obat. the two on buclcs by Bill Kramer ~nd Bill Ryan. You look very good doing Op<'ning th'-' second per·iod, Ryan It · th · failed to score thr·ough the line, :,;on1ersau S Ill e Hll'. • • • and after two unsuccessful running \\'onder wheie those 100 and plays, Captain Sam Hammerstrom, some ~•tudents were who were who starred for the Gar·net, punted 0ut to the 29, but in five plays, not at the game. A few more chmaxed by a 12-yard forward tlmn 700 attended. A profes- !rom Bill Ryan to Bill Kelly, right end, Ttinity scored. Ktamer, full- SOl' ::;ubmits the following bacic, convertecl from placement . comment 011 the crowd. \At Union outplayed the viistors during the rest of the per·iod, making ttree the Harvard-Bates g a ln e, first downs to Ttinity's none. ll ()() ;-;oung-sters, guests of Joe Rihl, quartet back, kicked off tor the Blue ancl Gold to open the !larvard officials, were pres- ~cconJ half. Starting on their own 1 ,mt. At the Union-Trinity 23, Hammetstrom and Jack Van- nier, halfback, made a first down game, in spite of policing for Union in. two running plays, ( '! \?) there were (it seemed) but the Dutchman's offensive was stopped on the next three plays and fully 7,100 kids who weren't Hammerstrom punted. After three the guests of the Union offi- plays, Trinity punted back to the Union 30, and Vannier brought the cials! There is something to ball back eight yar·ds. From this l.Je said for both system.s-but point. Union started its touct.down march. not very much for ours 1\ · · · Interference Sets Up Score Opponents' activity during A pass from Vannier to Both- the weekend-Princeton 26, well netted 15 yards, and three running plays by Hammerstrom 'Williams, 6; R. P. I. 25, Ham\ and Patrie gave Union another ilton, 7; Vermont 12, St. Law- first down. George Non is, who scored three touchdowns against renee, (); Tufts 13, Middle- Haverford last week, was then in- bury, 2 . . . serted in the line-up and recovered a Union fumble on the Trinity 32 \Oh Mr. Dooley\ for the third first down in its 1 march to the goal. Vannier around In Eddie Dooley's, \l Ius- end and Hammerstrom passing to ti·ated Football Annual,\ Guibert put the ball on the trin- 249th ity 21. A pass and four running Union is rated the \ · plays put Union on the Trinity best\ football team in the nine-yard marker with first down ''OUI 1 tt·y. Williams is rated and a goal to go. At tl':is point, the ~ Union attack failed to gain, but 160, Vermont, 111, and Roch- then Union got its break. b Vannier faded baclt to pass and ester 81fJ. But cheer up, oys, through the ball mto the end zone; Trinity isn't rated! About however Jim Bothwell, I ight end, L:nion, the comrnent is: \Com- a potential receiver, was tripped, so Union was given the ball on the ing· up. Ti1e spotty defense of one-yard line. Trinity put up a l·,tst .'\ear has been stiffened. strong goal-line stand, but Union ·' scored on the fourth attempt to Guard-tackle play is strong crash the line with Captain Ham- ' ·mc, the passin~r g·ame is sur.e. merstrom edging over by inches. t - u Lee Sherman, sophomore quaiter- Hammerstrom's fine at full. back, tten entered the game and Can win six.\ .•• A stranger converted from placement to tie the score. who saw a Union game for the In the fourth period both teams first time last Saturday said; nearly scored, but the \breaks\ went the wrong WlleY· To open the \It's not only the deadest quarter Union took possession on cheering_· section I've ever its own 32 after a Trinity punt. In ~ ,ix play\ Union scored four first tried to listen to, but the downs. going 60 yards to the Trin- cl1cerleaders have 110 pep, and ity 8. Hammerstrom gained three yards thrbtigh center, and a for- th2 cheers are also dead.\ ward pass was incomplete. Norris Just IJassin 2 - this along for then went around left end on a ~ reverse, but he was hit hard, did a what it's wol'th. complete ~omersault, and fumbled Bum Band the ball. Trinity then carried the ball out of danger. About l:alfway in the period, (Continued on Page 4) SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Qua~ity Food-~ Always Open One step from State St. 15 Total Fn st Downs ...... 10 9 First D8wns bJ· Rushing 10 5 First Downs by Forwards 0 1 Fitst Downs by Penalties 0 193 Tot31 Yards GainPd ..... 228 120 Y cls. Gained by Rushing .194 73 Y ds. Gained by Passing. 34 Ill F ward Pa;se;; Atkrnpted 8 : li F'ward Passes Com;lleted 3 : 41 Av. Yardu~c of Punts ... 37 Kent School Team Trips Freshmen Ccach At-t Lawrence's freshman football squad dt·opped its opener Saturday to a hat·d charging Kent School eleven. Leading 7-6 at half- time, the cubs seemed hcadc·d to-· ward vict01y when the defense crumpled to allow two Kent touch- downs. The first period was a see-saw affair matked by numerous fum- bles, Don Quigley broke loose neat the end of the quarter on an off tackle smash and dashed sixty yards for Union's only scot·e. Wik- off converted by placement. Kent, in the next period, took the baH on their own forty and scored on a sustained drive. ThC' placekiclt was low. Kent threatened as the half ended. U:ent Scores Twice Kent tooit the o:.ensive in the second half, although the year- lings threatened several times via the aerial route. After Quigley re- turned the kickoff thirty ~·ards to thr· Union forty-five, Lockwood of Kent intercepted a pass and cat·- ried to the Union fourteen. Kent £cored shortly. The frosh then tcok to the air again. With Eddie Green doing most of the tossing, they kept in the running right up to the closing minutes when Pep- per of the visitors ran 75 yards for the final touchdown of the game. Tj:J.e schoolboys outrushed the home team by a considerable mar- gin, making eight first downs to Union's three. The freshmen, how- ever, had the edge in the passing department. Quigley a:1d Green were the stellar ligh'.:!l for Union <Continued on Page 4) ' Interested in Schenectady Interested in UNION MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Street Jeweler 166 Jay St. Watch and Jewelry Repairing a Specialty PARKER and WATERMAN PENS TRY BOWLING FOR WHAT AILS YOU THE MEETING PLACE OF UNION MEN 16 Alleys Billiards TABERSKI'S Next t@ Mohawk Hotel Hammerstrom Scores Union's Touchdown Captain Hammerstrom plunged ove1· Tl'inity goai line for Union scm·e in third period of Saturday's game. - l'om ({•:-:~· tlf ...\1\lnliY Tinws~ l .. 11im. ,==__;;;_;;:=====-==j-------- il(ruufn Just around the corner on Eastern A~-enue Quality Ice Cream Light Lunches OPEN TII.L MIDNIGHT ANNOUNCING the REOPENING of ANDERSO.N 14 S RESTAURANT After a Short Closing for Alteration~ 314 STATE ST. Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market LOUIS WASSERMAN QUALBTY MEAT MARKET 354 B'way Ph. 4-3364, 4-3365 C. S. M 0 0 D Y Optometrist Eyes Examined, Glasses Fitted 115 B'way Telephone 6-5747 Three Doors from State St. LET THIS SYMBOL Be Your Guide in Buying ICE CREAM Prodt~ct of General !ee Cream Corporation Ve.r.mont Runners Defeat Garnet Taken by >Urpri\\ ·b)· a pair of fleet-footed sophomore8, thP var~ity Cl'O-\t'·country team bowed in Cef.ea t before VNmont's harriers in their fi! st meet of th, ,ea~on, 33-32. The Webster brot'hPl s led the victors as they .finished fir\t nnd third ever the Burlington cour.- <:. Co-captain Paul Sant0ro led the Garnet fo1·ccs crossing the- line he- hind the winner. Char:<\y \VC'b,tt>r, w·ho ran ove1 the V<:rmont coutce 11 seconds fastet· th:~n Bill Haw!'\\· Union's 1 ecord hol<..IPr. H<: mi>'~ed setting a nev.' tinw by a fractinn of a se~ond. Mell'wiez Fourth Co-captain ,.-t·ank !\1e!<:wicz fin- is·hPd in fourth iw,;iticn fcJllOWl'd by Twark, Kirhan and Dm~ sean of thc• Catamounts. Bi:·l John~on of ' Union WPc eighth. PPUt'>On, co:- Jins, Conly, Hoffman and Main<:c, G:J.rnet 1·unnet·s, wet'P eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth, fifteenth and deventeenth rp,;pectively. The team will unc!etgo several long conditioning 1 um; this wePk to prepare fO·l' its firdt tome mPct Sat.urday when the New York Uni- ver·sity harriers invade Schcm·~­ tady. The summarie~ of the Vermont meet m·e as fall owe: C. Wcbftcr·, V .. 24:49; Santor-a, U, 25:15; F. WebEter, V, 25:42; Mc:ewicz, U. 25:55; Twacl,, V, 26:04; Kichan. V, 26:09; Br0ssc3n, V. 26:17; Johnson. U, 26:31; Clarlc, V. 26:34; Burge~:.;. v. 27:01. SUITS Cleaned-Pressed TWO SUITS Cleaned and Pressed BF~: 93c: Call for and Deliver \For Students Who Care\ ,__ ___ G & G----, ,-ClEANERS L_ DYERS 12 Elm St. Phone 3-1775 DALEY'S Featuring GOOD FOOD AND DRINKS BOOTH and COUNTER SERVICE 414 STATE; ST. 0 U R M 0 T T 0 GUERRA PHARMACY \Quality -- Service Satisfaction\ We deliver all kinds of sandwiches as well as any drug needs. Call early ... deliveries 'till II p. m. 25c minimum on deliveries. 598 Broadway For Better Values Phone 6-9419 600 Union St. cor. Barrett Adam Ciesinski, reserve center, has quit the team •..• Frosh facts-Eddie Green can smely pass on the run and ~;hould be a valuable asset to future varsities •.•. The job the colleg-e band did on the alma mater confirms the statement we made four years ag-o after hearing the band the first time-if a college is no better than its band, God pity Union! ••.. The defen- sive stars of the varsity game as viewed ·fl·om this corner were Bothwell of Union and Captain Carey of Trinity •.•. Williams College has been added to the varsity basket- ball schedule. Unquestionably Favored I ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM 'blue' COAL • FUEL OIL • SEEDS • ~ER'i'ILIZERS BELLEVUE DAIRY PHONE 4;.2553 HIRAM J .. McKAiN COMPANY 306·314 Union St. \Cali Ball and Ball Will Call\ Phone 4·4448 PH 0 N E 6-3456 Gazette Press Printers

li! .I ' 1! ~ l I; 'i Page Four New Instructor Received Deg,ree In Engineering Ohio State Graduate Lists Military Training Among His Avocations betW<'l·n tiuch fighting, and fighting ~on1c one el~P·~ battle~:· In ~peaking of thp differences bPtWPPn smaller and larger ~ol­ l<·g<':;, Mr. St.anll'Y :;aid that hP felt the advantage:< and disadvantages of Paeh almu;;.t Pxactly balanced each other. RPt'Pning specifically to Cnion. he praised the courtesy shown him in hi,; C'la:;:;es. \U stud .. nt,; will try to 'run all over' a nPw in,tlUC'tor, bui I have nevPr hPPn called 'Sh·' :<o often bPfore in my lifP.\ Resene Officer JOE'S BARBER SHOP Oppo~ite Post Office Featuring Hairruts for rnion !Hen \I wa:; interp;;ted in Joe Paul's \.tat<>ment in the last Concordiensis to t hi' effPct that onC' hour a day was enough to bP \pent on athlt't- l<·s:· !\lr. Stanl<•y ,:aid. \! think thi~ is Pspecially !1 Ut' of engineers, who havP a lot of work to be done (,utside cla~~es.\ Bellevue Cj)uality Bakery I/ \Thn•p wPel<s rPally i~n·t long enough to judge a student body, , hut from the first impre~sions I have lPCPived. I think students at Union nre well intPre~tt>d in their work.'' M1·. Stan!C'y said in reply to a quP~tion. \I dislikt> a student's coming to coliPge mPrely for a good tinw,\ he added. ----- 0-- - Freshmen Drop Opener To Kent School r Continut'd from Page 31 on offrn>e. Slingnland and Sharpe Wtl e thP defensive ~tar\. l niuu 1\ (•111- .\tl:tlllZt \'ldl ... LJ·: II\\,. .. ...... LT ...... .\:-.hrnun T.q•\ \'.' i L~t·J ~···r . . . . . . . . L ~ llodndt ..... ('. ).1 ~~ . . . . . ..•. :-\lutgf•Jialld ..•. Ht; HI' ~Jmid'i: .\rn''~~ I 2625 B'way Phone 4-6248 BREAD - ROLLS - l'ASTRY ~ - PEOPLE•s FOOD MARKET FINE FOOD and GROCERIES 1291 Rugby Rd . l',t i :··~ .... ~\l:tt (H' , , ..• , , , I..JU,g]t•y •• , .. , , \\\JI..:nfl HI·: .. ll ' .. '·\ . . . . Bl>w.l< I t ·o .... rp . H1d1!Pr ~..!:::;==============~ ·\·~~~:~:: : ~~===============i1 :\Inn iH•\ ' ltll <;Jl·t·tl .......... FB :--;, ort· hr J-'Pl ioth;: '···~ 1\.\\lllld I J':-;111:-; ............. ·' II II 0-7, 1\f'llt .. ' . . . ..... II fi I ti I !I I Trlllt'hdt•\\11-..: l.,!Uil.d~·~· .. \~hlt·y h·Ub' f<~t t • .. ,17.•·1. Pt·JIJ•t·I 1-..uh fol\ .\·I\' ri~t·V}, ('·•11\\t·l ... :llJt-.· \\.il\1dl, B!twl< tpl:u'·p. 11\f'lll' .... ). PHONE 4-5614 Everything Electrical JAS. F. BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. Sch'dy, N.Y. \What•s new. we show\ Famous Make SHIRTS $1.55 Values $1.09 Hand Tailored TIES 65c Values 44c SNAPPY MEN'S SHOP 179 JAY ST. ' ' !===============~~==============• CLOVERLAND CREAMERY For Prompt Service MILK • BUTTER - EGGS - CHEESE • ICE CREAM Phone 6-8104 919 State St. Watch and Jewelry Repairing Engraving JAY JEWELRY CO. COR. STATE and CENTER STS. ' I ! ' I ! I I I I TUESDAY QUARTERBACK by IN '!'HE MAIL Fry Day • .. that's always a signal for more smoking pleasure An around you, you'll see that friendly white package ••• that means more and more smokers everywhere are agreed that Chesterfields are milder and better-tasting ••• for everything you Concordier:~sis to Revive Student Questionaire ··~~:-· u,\'\\'\\'\\\\•\~~::~~ cigarette, CHESTERFIELD w~~~~ M J lll Q N S Be· Quari :Z.-511 (o~lle~ :form fo,r I Stud u.s Bet~ To fm made fo: CoHege i aerona Charles 1 ed adm this line Con cordi \It ha: said, \tl applicati Civil A cording units m1 tober 15 this req perrnissi date. VV permissi Contir order t( as poss tion is ~ at once student! the rest vise thr or pare .1.pplica1 M Stude are ag! eligibili formull istratio official must b must States, een a1 have I examir requirE signed or gm the fii! ment dent. This simila tion l Amon ganizE Renss Che Of I A r to di~ man in th o'cloc terda It secti( to p; Plan: teers tice gamE to si the I ty-fi' be r succ ' ~ . . J.

will poll, be tier, to tui- due stu- akc due BE NF: be l•l. liHI I I, I I I U N'ON . t I l COLLlGE Ll BHARY • Football trnsts Beta's Rally Are Tonight Quarantined Z-511 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1939 PRICE FIVE CENTS Vol. LXIII., No. 8 (oHege Submits :forma'l Request fo,r Flying Unit Retired .fanitress Dies, Served for Half Century Serious Consideration Mingles With Humor in Answers to Poll G:raduates Return to (a.m,pus To Join tn Alumni Wee.kend On the eve of the annual homecoming week-end for alum- ni, Union col:Jege is mourntng the deatb. of Mrs. Kate Melber who for fifty of her eighty years was a janitress at the college. Mrs. Melber cleaned the offices of the faculty, and the dormitories since 1886. Two years ago she retired and on retiring Mrs. and President Fox, the faculty, and the students gave a surprise tea in her honor. Tile next day the National Broadcasting Company interviewed het•. During the in- terview she contrasted the liv- ing quarters of the students of fifty years ago with the quart- er~ of today. She said that the boys of the old days \raised the dickens\ more often than. they do today. Bringing the prefes- sors' cows into their rooms was a common occurrence, she said. Editors' Note: The tabulated J•esults of yesterday's Coneord- iensis poll will be found on the editorial .page. ~-------------------------------- ·is the greatest fault you find with Union Coi'lege ?\ wisecracks and literary jewels were legion. Stu- dents protested the lack of school spirit, the lack of class spirit, and one sage complained even of the lack of alcoholic spirits, having scrawled \Not enough, good likker\ in the appropriate blank. Studen.ts deplored the \Schenectady brats on the field during football games,\ scarcity of \snobbism and Hale House food. One participant in the poll declared, \I like the joint just about a:s it is.\ An eye-catching bit, 'in fine Spencerian letters, stat- ed, \Books too damn high!\ An- other, \Tuition $425; no co--eds.\ Comments about fellow students ranged all the way from \T'oo Program Includes Class Attendance, Graduate Council Meeting, FootbaU Students Must Be U. S. Citizens Between 18 and 25 To further the plans already made for participation of Union CoHege in the gevernment's civil a e r o n au t i cal program, Dean Charles F. Ga·ris yesterday describ- ed administrative efforts along this line, in a statement to \The Concordiensis.\ \It has been decided,\ the Dean said, \that the college make an application for a unit under the Civil Aeronautic Authority. Ac- cording to the officia1 statements units must begin operation by Oc-. tober 15. We cannot comply with this requirement and will ask for permission to begin at a later date. We hope and believe such permission will be granted.\ Continuing, Dean Garis said, \In order to begin operation as soon as. possible, in case our applica- tion is granted, I should like to see at once by appeintment interested students who are eligible under the restrictions set up. f would ad- vise them to be sure of guardian or parental consent before making .3-pplication.\ Must Be Physically Fit Students wishing to participate are again asked to ascertain thei~· eligibility. In addition to the rnles formulated by the college admm- stration governing eligibility, the official government specification.; must be met. Student participatin& must be citizens of the United States, between the ages of eight- een and twenty-five, and must have passed the required physical examination. Each student will be required to furnish a statement signed by himself and his parents or guardian, releasing the college, the flight operator, and the Govern- ment in case of passenger acd- dent. This proposed training course is similar to those already in opera- tion all over the United States. Among the several colleges or- ganized for this training Is the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. 0 Cheering Section Topic Of Freshman Meeting The editorial board of \The Con- cordiensis,\ during a tedious sess~on of tabulating yesterday's question- , nai-re, has encountered, despite the flock of miscellaneous qui.ps and cracks whicb. was spread profusely throughout, many significent opin- ions of the student body Ol'l mat- The program for College Week-end, plmined annually as a tribute to the Alum11i of Union College, will be held on the Campus today, tomol'l'OW and Sunday. It was announced yesterday by Dr. Charles N. Waldron, Secretary of the Graduate Council. ---------------------i> Invitations to the weekend, which . ters of college administration, campus activities, and world events. Student disapproval of the new Sunday chapel expressed itself in a 5:2 ratio. Uniform award keys were favored almost unanimously. The freshmen, strangely enough, did not do too much toward pro- testing against freshman rules. Apparently, they don't mind too much, after a;ll. The tug of war appeared to be a popular event of the freshman-sophomore Olympic games. Abolition of Saturday classes was favored in a 3: ratio. Footba II Rally Plans Announced have been issued through the Graduate Council Office on the campus, to alumni and friends of the college. are distinguished bj' a copy of the words and music of the first line of \Come Now to the Campus\ which decorates the cover. The most exciting day during hee years of service with the college, Mrs. Melber once de- clared, was the one on which Harrison E. Webster was elected president. The event called for general merriment and the bell on the old chapel was rung for three solid hours so that the whole town would lmow the glad tidings. Scarlet Strikes Fever Betas Athletic T earn Hit Hard by Quarantine Of Fraternity House Supporters of the Allies were in a majority in the question on the European War, although many students expressed their sympath- ies through such prize-winning phrases as \alley powers,\ \niether and. one anonymous individual de- clared himself \netural.\ After all, it's· netural to be pacific in times likes these. On question number eight, \vVhat Rev. Charles Fiske Sunday Preacher many hot-dogs\ to, of ail things, \Too many queers!\ One person, feeling none too secure in his col- lege environment, bemoaned the fact that there was \only oll'e po- liceman.\ \The Concordiensis\ was taken to task on several scores. Some- one, in a rush of confidence, told us that \the grammar is. not 'to' good.\ Others clamored for more \spm·ts and for a \funny sheet.\ One sheet contained the legend, \The corny columns. Foo!\ The most unkindest cut of all, however, came in three terse words, \Too much bull!\ The Rt. Rev. Charles Fiske, of Baltimore, Md., former bishop of Central New York, will be the guest preacher. this Sunday, at Union Continues N.S. F.A. Member Students to Sing. Cheer Squad Members Snake Dance Downtown Union's first football 1·a!ly of the year will be held on the cam.pus to- night. A bonfire, snake dance and cheering will feature the celebra- tion, which is being held in prepar- ation for the Middlebury game to- morrow. The participants, including un- dergraduates and alumni on hand for· Alumni Weekend, will assemble before the Memorial Chapel at seven-thirty. From the Chapel the rooters will march to the gravel pit by council fi'eld, where the fresh- men will have prepared a bonfire. The multitude will invade the gymnasium, where the football squad is scheduled to be holding skull practice. Head Coach Nels Nitchman is expected to say a few words, and individual cheers f0r members of the squad will be de- livered. Today the alumni and their friends will be welcome at all classes and laboratory sections, schedules for which are available in Room 7 of the Administration Building. This evening at 6:30 o'clock a \Dutch Treat\ dinner will be served in Hale House. The football rally to be staged by the student body at 8 p. m. will afford this evening's entertainment. Tea Held After 01\me Tomorrow, as today, alumni will be welcome at classes and Daily Assembly. The fall meeting of the Graduate Council will be held at 10 a. m. in the Trophy Room of the Gymnasium. Ernest Bodenstab, of the class of 1940, will attend his first meeting at that time, having been elected by the senior class on Wednesday of this week. Scarlet feve.r, resulting in a the regular services held in Me- quarintine order, invaded the Beta moria! Chapel at 11 o'clock. Executive Body Also Favors Investigation Of Prom Improvements Theta Pi house, this week, and re- Bishop Fiske has held posts 111 duced somewhat Union's hopes for numerous cities in the east, n:· the forthcoming athletic contests eluding Trenton, N. J., Westfie d, The continuance of Union's mem- scheduled for tomorrow. The quar- N. J., Norristown, Pa., Utica, and bership in the National Student antining order was occasioned by Baltimore, Md. Federation of America for the aca- Leaving the gymnasium, the crowd, led by the council, will \at- tack\ downtown Schenectady, per- forming the traditional snake dance through the business section of the The Middlebury varsity foot- ball game will be the high-spot on the afternoon's program. The fresh- man and varsity cross-country teams will also provide entertain- ment, competing with Nott Terrace High of Schenectady and N. Y. U., respectively. Middlebury and Union alumni will unite for a tea in Hale House following the varsity football game between the two schools, according to an announcement made by the Schenectady Alumni Association, which is sponsoring the affair. the illness of Benjamin Guiles, who In 1915 he was appointed Bishop demic year was assured when the was stricken Monday. Coadjutor of Central New York, Executive Committee of the Stu- Dr. Charles Clowe said last night, and until recently remained active dent Council, meeting on Wednes- that according to state law any in that capacity. In 19 23 he was day afternoon, voted $25;00 of the person exposed to scarlet fever made a Bishop. Council's funds for membership city. ----·0---- Tidmarsh Features Selections of Dupre must undergo quarantine and ob- Dr. Fiske has received honorary dues in the Federation. t . f · d f da degrees from Syracuse, Hamilton, gerva 10n or a peno o seven ys The Committee went on record · · d f and Hobart. He received his bach- folloWing the perw o exposure. as favoring an investigation of pos- Three of the works of Marcel Th . 1 ld 1 th elor of arts degree from St. Sh!- ts aw wou re ease e mem- sible wa\s of tmprovin.,\ Union's Dupre, celebrated French organ- b. f th f t \t f phans College, Annandale, N. Y., m ' ers o e ra erm y rom quaran- Junior Prom system. The results ist, who will give a recital here t t M d 1893, and his degrees of doctor of me on nex on ay. of yesterday's \Concordiensis\ poll next Friday, will be played by Dr. H d t h 't b th 1\ 'li b divinity from his alma mater 1n ar es 1 y e ru mg Wl e will be searched for suggestions. Elmer A. Tidmarsh this Sunday the athletic teams playing this 1 912. at his regular organ recital. The weekend. Gale Hoffman will be He is the author and co-author Sanction of an all-freshman program will begin at 4 !:>'clock in out of the running in the cross- of several works on religious sub- cheering section at later football the Memorial Chapel, dnd will be country races, \Bundy\ Shaw, jects. Among his own works are games was given by the Commit- divided into three sections. The T.o Hear Organ Recital All Union alumni returning for the weekend have been cordially invited to attend the tea. The Alumni Association. has sent cards to more than 90 Middlebury grad- uates in the capital district, in- forming them of the tea and in- viting them to be present. A meeting of the freshman class o discuss the formation of a fresh- man cheering section will be held in the Old Chapel, Monday, at 1u o'clock, Louis Carr announced ye~­ terday. It is hoped, Carr said, that the · k b Kill' \The Perils of Respectability,\ tee James Hilltc , and Ro ert tan · first will be a symphony, the sec- will be out of the varsity football \Experiment of Faith,\ \Confes- The committee also voted $15.75 ond a group of three selections by game with Middlebury College, and sions of a Puzzled Parson,\ and for seven Terrace Council keys, as various authors, and the third will Walter Hochuli as well as Donald \Calvary Today.\ His latest book, well as $3.00 for medical attention be the selections by Dupre. Quigly will be out of the lineup \From Skepticism to Faith,\ w,ls for a freshman who was injured of the freshman football game with published in 1934 · in the freshman-sophomore cane The program: the Morrisville Agricultural School. o----- rush recently. It was explained I. Symphony No. 6-Charles According to Dr. Clowe, the Phi Beta Kappa Elects that the college physician was un- Marie Widor. quarantine notice was posted by New Memb-ers Today available at the time of the in- II. The Little French Clock- Officiating at the tea will be Mrs. Glen Smith and Mrs. Chatfield T. Bates assisted by Mrs. Douw Beekman and Mrs. Alvin F. Nitch- man. Two Middlebury graduates, Mrs. Emily Thompson and Mrs. Leon Adldns. will also assist. Sunday, the Rt. Rev. Charles Fiske, will address the alumni present at Chapel, while in the aft- ernoon they will be welr.ome at the organ recital given by Dr. Tid- marsh. section will be organized. in time to participate in the R.P.L gamG. Plans call for a group of volun- teers to learn the cheers and pra.c- tice before each game. During games the freshmen will be asked to sit in a body so as to facilitate the leading of cheers. About seve>n- ty-five freshman volunteers will be required to make the plan a success, Carr added. Dr. Treder, who also gave the rul- jury, and it was necessary to Franz Carl Bornschein. ing in the case governing the par- The faculty members of the summon an outside physician. Meditation from \Thais\- ticipation in campus activities of Union Phi Beta Kappa, chapter of Proposed methods of insuring a Jules Massenet. those exposed to the disease. Per- the Alpha of New York, will meet large Union attendance at the Ronde Francaise - Leon haps the one fortunate turn in the this afternoon in Bailey Hall to Hamilton football game, to be Boellman. entire situation to the few not in- elect stUdent members from the held in Clinton on November 18, III. COI'tege et Litanie-Marcel terested in knowledge is the fact class of 1940, Dr. Morton C. Stew- were considered by the group. No Dupre. that no one exposed will be al-l art, sect·etary of the chapter said definite action, however, was takPn Lamento-Marcel Dupre. lowed to go to class. yester•day. on this matter. Final-Marcel Dupre. Garnet's Starting Forward Wall Which Will Oppose Middlebury Tomorrow Ernest Bodenstab, who was elec- ted this week to the graduate council is president of the senior class, and captain of the track team. At the meeting tomorrow he will represent the class of 1940.

'j Page Two THE CONCOHDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1939 \\WE TOLD YOU SO\ 1 Probably the fom· most detested words in Ful'~!JHJ 1877 \./ Cmoa !'tTJll Parole .lssai\ )J, ntl\ 1 ••1 tl1• \_~._,.,, J.t!•tl t'nlkl-!t:tr•· l'l• .. .., .tt:.l d:~ ll: !Hilt•! .. , t II· ( ·.' 1· . ..:, Lit• 1 1 1~1 ... [ Tnt• -.(titi.ll 1:.~\ .. !ul\' .~1- tht ~t'.tdtttl·~ \' l'lltt•l• t'c.llt·t.:•. r'uldt-h• t 'L1· -·: .• ~ .ttd l·tttl.t~·..., t\it .. u~h- EtlihHhi-l Houm...,, ~:lltln,•n ll.dl, l tdult t'• II·~~ t ·.unpu... T• l•·rd:••lll', :-' ·h· \' •'l'ad~. ·1-trJ .::1 Ptthlil'HUun Ot'rin•, Tilt ti.~t.t·\u· I'Jt:-.:--, ,:.:t St;·tt :-.L. ::-; ·ht J,n-I.nb. :\ \', Td• p!t••llt' -1-1111 EHtt·t·d .tl tlt··· =-'•It• .. tl td·: l•'tl .... l IIITi•t ~, ... ~tt<IIJ•I l ·t.~~~ :vl:, tl :\l:L. r\ r :-;u!J:-.t~llpt'lt!J.I -l;l ,t t· }• i\ · • '\,]; .l 1 \l'~· , ~.~ 1141 :1 ~I ,ll , dt·lt\t'lld .\11\\\llt\ll' lll !l.t• l'J•J!.\·d ~!'.1-l·t ... Senior Board La'!.vl'ence V. l'ellettier, Jr ....... Editor-in-Chief 2·1 N. S. South College~G-9728 Uobl'rt R. Eisner ............ Business Manager Kappa Nu House-4-7331 c. Russell Deyo ............... ::-.1anaging Editor Chi Psi Lodge· 4-6527 George Lmtdwick l't>ck .......... Sports Editor 1'38 Union St. 6-3fl!K Christopher lU. Fahy .............. News Editor Delta Ups1lon House ·1-7922 Edwin A. Fitz, Jr ................ Feature Editor 1254 Glenwood Blvd. ·1-28o7 Jacl; Rabinowitz .......... Cireulut ion Manager Phi Sigma Delt2 House 6-0765 REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL AOVERTI&ING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publisbers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK. N. Y, CHICAGO • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRAtiCISCO Junior Bom·d John LPwis Paul Bt•ck<'r James Twining Robert Schulberg J<,lm Phillips Sophomnrt> Board Alexander Arony, Armand Ficgcnbaum, John Gt ow. Samu••l Portnoy, Jonathan Pea!'son, Solo- mon Blechman ----- Business Staff ,\t~d\· E .. t\, .l:1 .. t 11 l 1 t·tl .. tLi!J, ~LLtdty l~:l't't·n~tt·II!. [ltiJI:I,:d J[ t;:.;:ll, }.~.t:-koLI ~~ h\\.1.111., ;\lthtl!' fJ.t'\\l:--. .\I,. 1 \\ ~·I ill-. Is•;up t;dikt· ..................... Paul Bt><'kt•r Assistants ThomaB O'Connor Granger Ttipp Solomon Blechman Fl'iday, OC'tobPr 13. 1939 RALLY 'ROUND \\' e shall consider ~·esterclay's Concordi- ensb poll a success if for no other reason than because it proved to us that, dormant <ts it may be, there is a great deal of \school spirit\ on our campus. Bv far the most frel}Uently recurriny: an- swe;. to the question \\Yhat is yoUl' chief cl'iticism of l'nion Colleg-e'!\ was \The lack of spirit.\ The very fact !.hat so many students de- precated this lack of enthusiasm proves that there is no such deficiency. The spirit is there; what apparently has been lacking- is a meth orl of org-anizing- nnd expressing- this zeal. Tonight's pep l'a.Ily for tomonow's football game with :Vlirldlebury should prove the ideal medium fm· the manifestation of this spil·it. You have already indicated that ~·ou have the will; the rally tonight will p1·ovide the way. The more sophisticated elemt>nt may point out that pep-rallies <l!J(l other such demon- strations of enthusiasm are puel'ile and sophomoric. If this is the case, then we thank the Almighty for· puerility. Long after your diploma is g-athe!'ing dust in the attic, long after class rooms are forgotten, the bon fires, chee1·s and snake dances through Schenectady will be remembered. Tomorro\'\.' afternoon a Union football team will meet a strong l\Iiddlebmy squad in a game which promises to be a keenly contested one. The Garnet team that takes the field will be 100 ~; amateur, composed of men who have practiced and trainee! dili- gently; men who returned to college two weeks early and boarded themselves at their own expense; men who have worked ha.rd all week for the dubious privilege of playing a grueling game of fool.lmll. Trite as the thought may seem, this team deserves and needs all the student support which can be mustered. The least we can do is pay our tribute in the form of cheers and enthus- iasm .. Last year the practice of having the team ~nter the field behveen two standing rows of students was inaugumted. This practice, in our opinion, is one well worth reviving. the English language are \vVe told you so.\ There is something· about this retroactive claim to omniscience that is exceedingly ir- riLlti ng·, At the risk of being il'l'itating, ho\\'ever, \\'e point t\J oHr editorial of September 26 i11 which we rel'e!Ted to l'nion's woeful lack of any lwspitalization system. I.n today's Coll- corcliensi::-; we react that one of om· fratemi-· ties has -Leen placed umler quam.ntine be- L'Htrse one of its nwmbers ha:; contracted scm·let fevet'. The1·e is no reason to belieYe that any more students ·will be stricken. Certainly we all hope that there will be but the one case. If the disease does not spread, we may conside1· ourselves fortunate. But will we always be so forunate '? The law of averages will never be repealed. In- evitably there will come a time when fate will mlt be so kiHd, and Union's lack of any hospitalization plan may well prove to be fat· more costly than she ever realized. Probably no plan in th·e world \vould have prevented the present attack of sca1·let fever. A hospitalization plan, however, wou1d make it possible for a .student to be confined, with proper attention, when a disease is in an in- cipient state. Under our present lack of a system, the thought of the financial outlay of a few days in the hospital for what may appem· to be a tJ·ivial ailment, is enough to deter any student. ProLa.:bly the student who now lies on a hospital bed would have objected to paying a compul:son· hospitalization fee. He, like the vast majority of us, probably thought he was beyond the ken of the law of aver- ages. \Ye wonde1· about the sentiments of his quarantined bJ·othe1·s at the present moment. :\Iig·ht not there be something to this hospitalization after all'? Experience is the best teacher, but she keeps an expensive school. Too expensive for lJnion to attend much Iong·er. Why ;;houlcl not we graduate to a safer and more sensible school along vl'ith the rest of our contemporaries'? CONCORDIENSIS POLL RESULTS YEH NO 1. Do you approve of the rec<'ntly en- acted Sunday chapel rule, requiring attendance at six Sunday services a >'<:mestcl? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 148 343 2. Award keys at Union vary in price from ~1.50 to $5.50, and have few featutP:< in common. The proposal ha,; bt en made to adopt a .system of uniform keys -i.e., key;; that would be basically Union keys, with a differ- ent inset for l'ach activity. Do you think the propo,al a good one? ..... . 3. Do you appmve of the presPnt Junior Pt om arrangement? ................ . I. Do you think the InterfratPrnity Coun<'il justifies its existence on the campus? ........................... . :i. Should freshman rules be r a l lPft as they are? ........... . 1 bl madc 11101\ ~tringt>nt? ..... . 1 e l a boli:'hed '? ............ . fl. Do you approve of 1 a l freshman haircuts? ........ . 1b1 thP eane rush? ............ .. 1c1 the tug of war? ........... .. 7. 'v\'ould you approve uf an an ange- ment whet·<'by Saturday classe8 would be di,;con t inued? ........... .. 8. In the pt·esent European conflict are your sympathies with Germany or witll thP Allie>d powPrs '? Allies 406 NPutral 112 Germany 30 n. In th£' evPnt of a war on forPign soil, would you 515 2.J.! 336 232 221 42 365 245 fiH ·13fl 1 al f'nli~t at thP outbt·Pak of war? CG 1 b l a wait the draft? . . . . . . . . . . . 27S < cl refuRe to fight? .. .. .. .. . . .. 152 61 158 115 194 135 32 151 OUR COLLEGIATE CONTEMPORARIES \Hairlard is out, the crewcut is in\ said Mord Corsaw, ·harhPr of students at ALFRED UNI- VI'~RSITY. RPminiscing, the tonsorial acP adds: \In 1927 a man was socially osh'acized if hP appl'RI't>d in public without having his lengthy locks slt>el{ily plastered to his cranium with a pint or two of some greasy concoction commonly rl\ferrl\d to as 'hail'-lay'.\ .. Mr. C01·saw attributes the retul'n to the crewcut to the financial con- dition of th(' CUI'rPnt style student. * * =~ DraE>tic st('(JS have lreen tal•eu by the athletic dl\pat1mPnt of RUTGERS UNIVERS,ITY in its attempt to prevent loaning of student athiPtic tickets. The departme>nt bas made at·rang~meitts to hav{' a photograph of each student phtcl\d on the front of his book of ticl{efs. IN THE MAIL •NOTICES ing the amount should be asked in the Comptroller's office at once. Editor of \The Concoridensis:\ BUSNIESS CANDIDATES Stupidity is the only word for it. · All freshmen and sophmores in- Iq.uote from t-he column, Critique, terested in the business staff of the which appea1·ect in the is-sue of Concordiensis, please see Robert Tuesday, Oct-obN 10; \With her Eisner at the Kappa Nu House. debut on lhP SCl'N'n, Miss Neagle Credit wiH be given for work dtme shows Jli omi~P of a splendid ca- during undPl'-C?lass years. Only n•e1· in that mt•dium.\ I''or the en- those who participate during their lightnwnt of t.lw author of this col- fteshmen and sophmotP years will umn and of a·ny poor, unsuspecting be eligible for thP junior board. ALL PAYMENTS MADE AFTER THE ABOVE DATE 'Wl'LL BE SUBJECT TO THE USUAL FINE tTadL•r who trbides by ti.JP judge- nwnt of this ct itic, Anne Neagle has, for thP past SPVPral ypars, bePn enjoying \a splendid career in that outstanding dramatic acttesses of tlw British cinema and numbprs nwdium.\ She has been one of the among lwr :;uC'et•sst•s \Nell Gwyn,\ \SiKty Glo1·ious Years,\ \Victoria the Great,\ and \Peg of Old Drury.\ Her performances in all of these have been acclaimed by American as well as by English film-goers, as fine achievements of cinema act- ing. As a matter of fact, Frank Nugent, movie critic of the New Ym·k Times, stated that the last picture, in which she was co-starr- Pd with Sir Cedric Hardwicke, waG one of the finest m0tion pictures to come out of England m· any other country. Oncp again, I quote from the col- umn, Cl'itiqul', this time from the GARNET All Sophmores interested in be- coming business manager of the Garnet contact James Ullman at the Kappa Nu house. TVITION INSTAI,LMENT The second installment of tuition for the first semester is due and should be paid Monday, Oct. 16. No bills have been issued and it is re- quested that all students having payments due make them on the OF $2.00. . The Comptrollers office w1I'~ . be opC'n for the c0J.Iection of tn·ttlon accounts on Monday, .Oct. 16, fr0m 9:00 a. r:n .. to 12 noon, .and front 1:00 p. m. to 4:4·5 p. m. KAPPA NU PLEDGES The 'Kappa Nu Fraternity an- n0unces the pledging of Marvm WPltman. Norman FeNster, and Ricat'd Vin·ick, '43. Henry's Barber Shop 10 New Yorlr Central Arcade 4 BARBERS Haircutting - M:~ni<'Ul'ing above date. Any question regard- :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ DeWitt's Lunch Room and Tap Room Vve serve better food for better l:ealth 118-120 JAY ST. OtJp, New City HaJJ C. S. M 0 0 D Y Optometrist Eyes Examined, Glasses Fitted 115 B'way Telephone 6-5747 Three Doors from State St. issue of October 3: -\She !Gin- ~~;;;;~~~~;;~~;;;;;;~~~~;;~;;;;~~~~~~~~: ger Rogprsl needs much careful i dil\Pction which she has not been W h d J 1 R • • receiving.\ I should like to disprove ate a:n . ewe ry epa1r1ng this stat<'nlCnt by naming the dire- E • t\n· of Miss Rogers' last two pic- ngraVII19 tures. Thry are Gax·son Kanin and JAY JEW·E·L·RY co·. Gregory LaCava. The former has bl'en called the \new boy wonder COR. STATE and CENTER STS. of Ho!lyw0od by both motion pic- ture trade publications and Holly- wood movie critics. It was he who ditected. the dramatic success \A Man To Be Remember.\ For fur- ther information and substantita- tion of my statements, I refer the author of Critiqul' to the is-sue of Life which reviewed \Bachelor Mother,\ directed by Garson Kanin and starring Gingl't' Rogel's. GrPg- ory LaCava, director of \Fifth Ave- nue Girl,\ \Miss Rogers' effort re- \'ieded in the column from which I have just quoted, also directed \Stage Door\ and \My Man God- fi ey.\ Need more be said? Obviou;;ly, the autho1· of Critique is not acquainted with the motion pictut e industry to such a degree as to qualify him as a motion picture critic. For your sake, Mr. Editor, and for the sake of those who ap- preciate intelligent and objective criticisms, look for a real critic. Sincerely, Myron Mills, '42. CALENDAR Today 1):30 p. m. Dutch Treat Dinner. Hale HOUSP. S:OO !J. m.- Football Rally in the Gymnasium. Saturday 8:00 a. m. - Visits to Classes and Laboratories by Visitor.s and Alumni. 10:00 a. m. - Daily Assembly. Speaker, Mt·. Philip L. Thomp- son, Class of 1900. 10:00 a. m. -Fall Meeting of the Gtaduate Co unci I. Trophy Room, Gymnasium. 12:00 a. m. - Freshman Foot- b::~ll. Union v.s. Morrisville Agriculture School. Alexander Field. 12:30 p. m. Buffet Luncheon in Silliman Hall for Alumni, Fac- ulty, and Friends. Host will be the Gtaduato Council. 2:00 p. m. -- Varsity Football. Union vs. Middlebury College. Alexander Field. 2:30 p. m. -· Freshman Cross Country. Union vs. Nott Ter- l ac<' High School. 3:00 p. m. Varsity Cross Coun- try. Union vs. New York Uni- versity. A Reception and Tea by Sche- nectady Alumni Association in Hale House after the Football G:lm£'. Run day 11:00 a. m. -Sunday Service. Pt'Pacher, Rt. Rl:'v. Charles Fiske. 4 :OOp. m. -- Organ RecitaL Dr. Elmer Tidmarsh. Monday 7:00 p. m.- -Family Welfare Din- ner in Hale House. 7:30 p. m. Band Rehearsal. Gymnasium. 7:30 p. m. Farmers Ct edit Union. Old Chapel. TU!'Sday 10:00 a. m. - Daily Assembly. SpcakPr, Rev. Herbert Hough- ton. 1-1:30 p. m. Glee Club Rehears- al in Hanna Hall. Special Offer! TIME MAGAZINE Year Subscription $2.50 CALL ROBERT EISNER, '40 I\appa Nu House PINE GROVE DAIRYu lncs 61 ERIE BLVD. PHONE 4·7741 'blue' COAL • FUEL OIL • SEEDS • IFERT!UZER.S HI·RAM Js McKAIN COM-PANY 306-314 Union St. Phone 4·4448 1!\ratrirr 1Kipp § qnppr DINNERS - LUNCHEONS Soda Fountain Service * Joseph F. Connelly for Mayor of Schenectady DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE 1624 Union St. Schenectady, N. Y. ... SEND your laundry home by convenient RAILWAY EXPRESS Thrifty idea, this: It saves you bother, and cash too fo 1 you can express it home \collect\, you know. So phon~ our age?t today. He'll call for your weekly package, speed tt away by fast expxess train and when it returns, deliver your laundry to you-all with- out extra charge. Complete and handy, eh? Only RAILWAY EXPRESS gives this service and it'~ the same with your vacation baggage: For either or both, just pick up a phone and call Cor. Wall & Liberty Sts, 'Phone 4-5612 Depot Offic~: N. Y. C. Station 'P~one 4·8512 Schenectady, N.Y. 1839 , •• A c.,.tul'j! of Sert~ire, •• 19:, RAIL\WA~ EXPRESS AGENCY, INC. UN Tbi:rtet Rivals \ \ I I Blue a11• Attack Few Lir Middleblll ,;trong tean row a-fter.J\c College vat ture of fou uled for Cc MiddlebU september win over passing col son and • them the ! utes, 7-0. struck a s in turn u their homE Coach E eran team bury this backfield i out of the year, boa~ a star f.rc to tote th• the Beck ba!l-carril letters Ia backfield TonyWis Mahoney in the ri1 Bertuzzi and Joh passing c ably kee1 Union's 1 second ' Beclt wi regulars gerald a The b Middleb son has ent the en vete earning Captain from th and wil on his left gu tackle ~ started Myers against other the de fresh GeorgE a cert: the lir Tupka startet Crawf Iiams. Eve upon have for c: the h throu rooteJ elevet Beck1 their HowE Beck shine ly, G inski

l 7 in lR lE <E be \m )ill 00 Lll- rin nd \ I I f THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1939 Page Three UNION MEETS SCRAPPY PANTHERS TOMORROW Thi:rteenth Gam.e :Between Ancient Rivals 'Feature of CoUeg·e Wee:kend Six Standouts On Middlebury Eleven Touch Football Results Blue ar:~d White Passing Attack Outstanding- Few Line Substitutes Middlebury College brhtgs a strong team to the campus tomor- row afternoon to engage the Union Col:Jege varsity eleven in the fea- ture of four athletic events sched- uled for College Weekend. Middlebury OJPened its season on September 30th with an unexpected win over W~lliams throagh their passing combination of Jack John- son and Johnny Mahoney giving them the game in the closing min- utes, 7-0. However the Panthers struck a snag last week and were in turn apset by Tufts, 13-2, on their home grounds. Veteran Team Coach Ben Beck will lead a vet- eran team into town from Middle- bury this weekend. ihe Panther backfield is one of the best to come out of the Vermont hills in many a year, boasting three lettermen and a star from last year's fresh team to tote the ball around. P~us these, the Beckmen have four reserve ball-carriers who won their varsity letters last year. In the starting backfield there will probably be Tony Wishinski at full back, Johnny Mahoney at quarter, Jack Johnson in the right half position and Sam Bertuzzi at left halfback. Mahoney aBd Johnson make up a potent passing combination who will prob- ably keep the pigskin flying around Union's backfield all afternoon. The second string backs that Coach Beck will count on to relieve the regulars will be Gaasbeck, Fitz- gerald and Zydick. Line Is Problem The biggest problem facing the Middlebury coaching staff all sea- son has been in the line. At pres- ent the Panther line comprises sev- en veteran players, five of them earning their letter last season. Captain Stabile will lead his team from the Ct'nter of the forward wall and will be flanked by Art Jaques on his left side and Pa.t Vartuli at left guard. Al Profy will be left tackle and either Johnny Ross who started against Tufts or Frank Myers who opened the season against Williams will be in the other tackle position. Ross was the defensive star of last year's fresh eleven. At .the right end George Berry, a letterman, seems a certainty. On the other end of the line it will be either Adam Tupka, a converted tackle who started fhe Tufts game, or Johnny Crawford who opened against Wil- liams. Even when Coach Beck decides upon his starting lineup he will have to look far down the bench for capable replacements to open the holes for his backs to pile through. Even though Middlebury rooters are comparing this year's eleven to the famous '36 team, the Beckmen's greatest weakness is their lack of adequate line reserves. However to help the line Coach Beck has two outstanding men who shine at backing up the line, name- ly, Captain Stabile and Tony Wish- inski. Norris Will Start Instead Of Patrie; Lee Sherman May Play in Balch's Post The Garnet varsity gridders wil'l hold a Hght practice this afternoon and then caB it a week of prepMa- tion fot· the highly-touted Middle- bury team. Ton.y Wisbin•kY l>'ulllmek ,J·uhn .)lahmtt•y QIUN'I•rlmt>l!. Jou•lt Johnson Left Half l 'a.ut. Htabill' {'ente-r Coach Nelson W. N itchman an- nounced his starting line-up today and the line will remain intact since the same seven men wh~ started against Trinity will line-up against the Panthers tGmorruw at v arsityl Fres:hman yearling Gridders 2:00 p. m. when the referee blows the whistle for the kick-off. X C f T 1 d Much speculation was rampant. - oun·ry eams pay Secon Game on the campus as to who would E 'R\ ,. H start in the backfie1d for the Gar- . . n:g a·g e IV a: s . ere Coach Arthur C. Lawrence has net. Head Coach Nitchman, how- announced two defintie changes, ever, eJ.iminated all doubt when he NYU Will Give 'Oldsters' and may make a third in the start- announced that George Norris, who Second Test\ While Nott ing line-up of his freshman eleven scored three touchdowns against which engages Morrisville Agricul- Haverforcl College in the openel', Terrace Meets Yearlings tural School in its second game of would start in place of Fred Patrie the season on Alexander Field to- in the wing-back post. The Garnet harriers will take to Balch May Not Play the Union cross country course to- morrow afternoon at 3:00 p. m. as During Wednesday's practice, the underdog when it will run Quarterback Dick Balch aggravat- against the New York University eel a s·houlder· injury, and last night cross country squad. At 2:30 p. m. it appea.red to be no better. Lee the fl'eshman runners will open. Sherman will be at the signal-call- their season against Nott Terrace ing post, if Balch is unable to play. High school. As expected, Captain Sam Ham- The New York team is composed merstrom and Jack Vannier wi\1 of a group of seasoned veterans and round out the ball-carrying quar- a sophomore, Leslie McMitchcH, tet. The loss of Balch will weaken who at one time was the scholastic the team offensively, since Die:< as- cross country champion. At pres- sumes the major blocking assrgn- ent McMitchell is rated one of th-3 ments during the grid battles; L•\e best distance runners in the east. Sherman, however, has been !cole- Last year he won the intercollegiate ing good in practice during the freshman cross country meet. past few days. Sherman is an ac· curate place-kicker, kicking three Stiff Contest out of three extra points during For the past week Coach Bill the two games it. which he has Ketz has been working hard with played. It was his educated toe his boys in an attempt to prime which gave Union a tie insteat.l of them for a stiff contest with the a defeat in the game with Trinity city team. However, he says that Saturday. his team laclcs the proper balance The Forward Wall to do more than offer stiff competi- Jim Bothwell will be at the right tion to the N.Y.U. team. end post and Wally Baker, his fra- In its first meet of the year ternity brother will be playing next N.Y.U. ran Colgate into the ground to him at right tackle in the line. by a score of 15-40. Mc•Mitchell Jed Johnny Krull will be at the right four N.Y.U. men over the line to guard position in the starting line take the first five places. Other for the third time this season. members of the city team are Bob Molloy will be at the pivot Joseph Gares, Carbin Dixon, Wil- post, and Dick Kearns will 1~ in liam Hanretta, John Craig, Bob his usual spot at left guard. Augie Eriksen, Ralph Freedman, Ken. Me- Kluge will start at right tackle ann Nutt and William Hulse. Jack Guibert, one of the strong de- The freshmen cross country team fensive players on the team, will will face the Nott Terrace High be at right end. School team in a meet scheduled to Substitutes who are likely to see start at 2:00 p. m. tomorrow after- quite a bit of action are Fred noon. morrow at noon. Because of the one-week quaran- tine of the Beta Theta Pi House, Coach Lawrence will insert Ft·ank EBgland in the backfield in place of Don Quigley and Frank ,Joneo at center in ]place of Walt Ho\huli Quigley scored the yearlings' only touchdown last Saturday. Paul Santee may start at end in place of Adamzevich tomorrow. After the 19 to 7 defeat at the hands of Kent School, the yearlings have been drilling hard this weelt in an effort to enter the win col- umn in their second appearance CJn the fiield of battle. Wednesdey night they scrimmaged against the varsity second and third teams of the varsity and scored five· touch- downs to their seniors' two. Douw F. Beekman Gasoline • Brake Service U.S. Tires· Motor Tune-up Exides • lubrication • Let Us Prepare Your Car for Winter 601 UNION ST. Open Until II P. M. Patrie, Ed Eustice, and Bob Davis· r~;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;; in the backfield. Reserves .for the line will be Diamond Marotta for the right end post; Bob Baker, center; Bill Lynn and Stewart Gold- blatt, guards; and Moey Weintraub, tackle. if(raufn Just around the corner on Eastern A\<enue Quality Ice Cream Light Lunches OPEN TILL MIDNIGHT Come Down From the Campus All True Sons of Union TO THE UNION INN 517 UNION ST. COME IN AND MEET TONY AGAIN! Give Your Roommate a Break! j F ~e's bent on wearing your new Arrow shirt w1th the roll front button-down collar, let him try it ... not all guys discover Arrow shirts for themselves, even tholigh they cost only $2. Be- sides, a dozen extra wearings by your roommate is nothing to fear .•. your Arrow shirts can take it. An antidote for chronic borrowing, however, is to tell your roommate about the k:Jcal Arrow store ... tell him about the new collar styles and smart patterns, and the Mitoga fit-Sanforized Arrow shirts, and he'll want some of his own. Al't Ju.t'(IUPS Heorge Bet'I'Y Rig I\ t U uurtl L~ft 1-:n<l 296 Competed in Football According to the figures released by the Athletic Department, 296 students competed this year· 0939- 40) in touch football. In accord- ance with this figure there were 792 individual perfor·mances for an average of 2 1 ·2 appearances per competitor. La.st year there were 272 competi- tors in touch footbaH, this year's number showing an increase 0f 24 men. In 1937-38 there wel'e 255, in 1936-37 there were 279 and in 1935- 36 the number of competitors was 231. -- -- 0---~--· Fall Track Me(>t The fall track meet will be held on Wednesday and Thursday, Oc- tober 18 and 19, at 4 p. m. Intramural Managers There will be a meeting of the intramural managers on Friday at 1 p. m. in the Trophy Room of the Gymnasium. w \' ... s = .s g ~~ ~~ Phi Gamma Delta. 6 100.0 Theta Delta Chi ... 6 75.0 Beta Theta Pi .... 5 62.5 .Kappa Sigma ..... 4 50.0 Phi Sigma Kappa. 4 50.0 De~ta Chi ......... 3 37.5 Sigma Phi ........ 3 37.5 Alpha Delta Phi. .. 2 25.0 Phi D!'lta Theta .. 2 25.0 Phi Sigma. Delta ... 2 25.0 Psi Upsilon ....... 2 25.0 Chi Psi ........... 1 12.5 Delta Phi ......... 1 12.5 Delta Upsilon •••• 0 12.5 Neutrals ••• 0 •••••• 1 12.5 South College .. 1 12.5 ·Kappa Alpha ..... 0 00.0 Kappa Nu ........ 0 00.0 ·sigma Chi .... ' ... 0 00.0 North College .... 0 00.0 Oldgym Hall 0 00.0 Time doesn't rA i:S 0 0 t,.<O. 150 125 112.5 100.0 100.0 87.5 87.5 75.0 75.0 75.0 75.0 62.5 62.5 62.5 62.5 62.5 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 AMBASSADOR h • I mean at 1ng .. ee BAR a11d RESTAURANT Opposite Grand Union Hotel \Where college men meet.\ • GOOD FOOD AND DRINK T IME means nothing to the collar on our Hitt shirt (made by Arrow). Hitt's collar won't wrin~ lde, won't crease no mat~ ter how many hours on end you wear it. Yet this collar is unstarched and vecy comfortable. Hitt is $2 BARNEY'S 217 State St. A new campus shirt By Arrow THE GORDON .DOVER with button-down roll collar T ~E distinctive feature of this fine oxford shirt IS the cut of the collar. The points are longer and taper back broadly towards the yoke. The button points are so placed to effect an outward roll of the collar, achieving that desirable casual appearance. College men will especially ap- preciate this shirt for wear with tweeds and rough finish clothes. Ask your Arrow dealer for the Arrow Dover $2, It's new and on the way in. In white, blue, also patterns. Sanforized-Shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than I%). A! I sleeve lengths and neck sizes. ARROW SHIRTS COLLARS , • , TIES , , , HANDKERCHIEFS , , - UNDERWEAR

' J Page Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1939 Assistant ComptroUer liN THE MAIL Me lllwaine N:ew Assistant ~~--~----------ITo the Editor: I · A \dirt\ column may be an in- teresting addition to a new::;paper ,;uch as \The Concordiensis,\ but lmprovisat.ions Are Promised by Dupre complete symphony was received with great enthusiasm and was ea•ily the greatest ac)lievernent of th; evening,\ from the New Ym·k Our Superior Hotel Type of Barber Service Comptroller Former Concordiensis Managing Editor Holds Two Union Degrees Alumnus extraot·tlinary is Theo- dore Richard Mcillwaine, current- ly serving his first y<'ar as assi~~­ ant comptroller of the collegP; !w is one of the few mPn to have bPen <>raduated from Union Coll<'gP twice~ Having received his Hu~hv lor of A1ts degre0 in 1930. he re- -\ tmned as a junior in 1932 to grad- uate with the class of 193-1 with a Bachelor of Science degrpe in Civil Engine-C'ring. \Vhile studying for his A.B. from 1926 to 1930 h<' served four years on the staff of \The Coneonliensis,\ t·i:sing f1·om a position on the fresh- man board to the post of mana.;- ing editor and was made a mem- ber of Pi Ddta Epsilon. honoraro: JOUinali>'tic fraternity. V\'hiiC' re- callin\ his work \putting thP pa- per t';', bpu\ as managing edito~·· :\1r. Mclllwaine pt·ai,;ed the Pdt- t-orial ,;taff of this Y''ar's pa.per. Following hi~ grauuatiDn in 1930, -'\1r. MC'lllwaine tcJDk a training course with the American Tele- phone anu T<'legraph Company and obtainPd tbP position of ntght man- agPt' in one of that con1pany's plants. !'raises nass SI>irit Aflt'l' he was graduated for the ,;econd time in 1934, Theodore Mc- Illwaine rl't utncd to his home in Platt,bwg wbHe hP worked with thL· {:nitl'd Stat<'s \\'ar Depaltmpnt as a Civil Enginc<'L Bc>fort• com- in~ to l\nion a~ a...;si~tant curnp- tro!lt·r on ~\ugu:-;t ],-, of thl!-> year lH• \\·'Lll kPd a~ an ~l.:-:-b;tant Pngin(l~..li fill thP Plattsburg Highway DC'- pal t nwnt. . •·\\'hl'n \ ou tl'llll n to college 111 a rolt- nth<'!: th:m that of a studPnt. \'OU gl't an C'nt it l'ly diffl'tl'nt \'h•w ;,f things,\ :\h. :\ldllwninl' said. \In ~on•\ 1 \\l\'d~ I fppJ like a f1 P~hniRll in tny nP\V position. \I'm glad to SPP through \The roncm·dtensis\ that class -<pii·it has lt•tuln<'d to t:nion. \\'ht>n I was h<'t c· for tht' Ht~t tim<' as a student. Plas,: spi1 it manift•stPd itself in pnint tkht~ a.round the Idol. even in a college paper I thin]( there should be a distinction made between the printing of some hum- orous escapade, and a direct an,' sazcastic slam at a named individ- ual. Tuesday's issue of \The Concordc iensi::;\ contained an article censor- lnO' the recent Student Council elec- ti;~1 held by the junior class; and stated that had a history of ea~h cand;iate been published, the elec- tion might have turned out uiffer- ently. This was based on the fact that there was confusion in regard to the unlimited number ol' \Smiths\ roaming ab0ut the cam- pus. I would lihe to point out to the author that there are exactly four Smith,; registered in the jun- 1 ior class, being by name: Howa~·d, 1 Herbert, Thomas, and but one sm- gle James Smith. However, in view of the fact that there may have been some misunder;;tanding, I be- liP\'e that a new election is wal- rantt'd and I heartily approvt' of THEODORE !HCILLWAINE such a measure. Sincerely, \The\ James Smith '41. l i; Deadlock May Bt' Broke1 ,:===================~ l11 36 ·rear dtd Rit·alr~· \VhPn the var.sity football team 1 meets MiddlPbury tomonow aft- · Prnoon, it will be renewing a I ,el'ies which wa,; started in No- vembPt' 7th. 19u3. rn the 36 year old 1iva!ry, both. teams haw won four gamPs, 1osi four and tied foUl·. In the 12 games played Union has scored 92 points and :\1iddlebury has piled up 59. Tht'PP 0f the tie games were scot PlP>'s. including the !it·st one in 1903. The last tim(' the two >chools mPt was in 1936, when :\liddleblll y tied up the st'ries wtth a 7-0 victory. AnothPr victorv in the win column tomorro~ for t'itht'r t<'am will give it the lead in the SCl'iC's. Restaurant - Tap Room Delicatessen GOLD'S ALWAYS POPULAR IDEAL BARBER SHOP 448 State St. EXCELLENT BARBERS \Come in and Try Our Haircuts\ SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Quality Food- Always Open One step from State St. PARAMOUNT PETIE'S 22 Church St. Ph. 1613 \TOPS in SARATOGA\ for Union Dates Featuring tlie NEW Marine Room Completely Renovated Come in and Enjoy Yourself Marcel Dup1 e, French organist . h h' Tribune. . 1 virtuoEo, who will appear Wit· ts Dupre and his daughter wtll ·P a_Y daughter, Marguerite Dupre, in the together Cesar Fr~nck's Syrnpll?mc concert spom;m ed ·by the Union ·Variations 1'or plano and 01 gan Glee Club in Memorial Chapel next and Bach's Sin·fonia from Cantata Friday even:ng, wil'l inc:ude on his No. 146 , which Dupr~ has tran- program a demonstration of ·his scri,bed for these two mstruments. im.pr0visation on themes which are Dupre, in one of his solo .groups, submitted to him only a few m·in- will play two pieces from h1s Smte utes ·before he develops them . .Sretonne, which Dr. Tidmarsh fea- · After playing the themes through tured in his 01 gan recital last Sun- once, Dupre will expand these sim- . . . d day. . 11 pie melodies mto rmprovtse com- This Sunday, Dr. Tidmarsh Wl positions which may take the form again devote part of his pro¥ram of a fugue, sonata ,or a full ·four- to selection by the F1·ench artist. movement symphony. This music a! feat of Dupre's has -;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;91 encouraged such statements as ·~ the;·e which appeated in reviews of his conce1 ts in New Yorlt, \Mar- cel Dupre's improvisations are among the marvels of modern music,\-H. T. Finck in the New Yoll< Evening Post, and again, \The artist's impr0visation of a PEARSON'S I 108 Nott Terrace Vl m (.) Sodas - Candy :A' z Magazines < :::> m Freeman's High Quality WALLPAPER PAINT GLASS For Past 142 Years Freeman & Son. Incorporated Phone 4-9155 12-20 Erie Blvd. COSTS YOU NO MORE Hotel Van Curler BAR.BER SHOP for building R health in 7 mind and body Amsterdam Dairy M :J L K 2 glasses before ~etiring Repeat Daily Phone 6-2351 for Daily Delivery. --I Papers - Ice Cream 0 Cigarettes Union College Book Store LET THIS SYMBOL Be Your Guide in Buying ICE CREAM Product of General Ice Cream Corporation Visit Our Exhibit Morgan Denr:~is' original etchings of dogs Nortb Wing Washburn Hail WHERE UNION MEN HAVE BOWLED FOR YEARS Reuterms Bowling Academy 148 CLINTON ST. 16 alleys \Sinet• I havP bPen assistant eomptrollt•r.\ Mr. Illwaine con- tinu<>d \l hn\\<' h!'t·n taking carr of tlw vm·wus phy.sic'al properties or thP C'l'llPgP. So far I haven't had any tmubll' with what you C\a!l 'th~ dt•structive in,;tinct in ,.;tudcnts. Having been a ,tud<>nt my;,elf. I think I can ,;ympathiz<' a little with thPi1· point of vil'w. -----~~.~~~- ~~- ~··-~~--~- -~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ in a friendly, dignified Ill B U 51 NO 11 S liB \You might say.\ hP C'DncludPd, \th.1t I'm \'Ply glad to bP baek.\ Sll VER GRILL WELCOME ALUMNI! Meet once agam over our fine foods and st i m u I a t i n g beverages. \The Best of Everything\ 202 STATE ST. atmosphere. O'MARA'S New Restaurant • Good food and drink \The white place with the picket fence.\ Ill WASHINGTON AVE. Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market OUR MOTTO \Quality - Service Satisfaction\ 598 Broadway For Better Values CAMPUS BARBER SHOP Exclusive for Union Men Haircut 40c HOURS: I to 6 P.M. Tony Barbieri '40 Shave 20c Silliman Hall Union College Schenedady's Exclusive Tailor Will Make You a Suit, Top Coat or O'Coat a+ $40 • $50 • $60 All garments made on the premises. Anthony Busino 725 STATE ST. Above NOH TERRACE Schenectady En9raving Co. 147 JAY STREET ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORDIENSIS Gazette Press ( 9) Iowa Statl'- Nebraslm (10) Minnesota- Ptn-dlle Printers . ----·---1 2,.85 .. \.9S ..... · · · · · .3.4S Edisons · · · · ·-ty c\ub · • • · · · 4.oo-s.oo Uni\erst ....•. tv~aUorvs · . . . . . EDISON HATS 309 STATE ST. 2 DOORS FROM E&IE BLVD. GUERRA PHARMACY We deliver all kinds of sandwiches as well as any drug needs. Call early •.• deliveries 'till II p. m. 25c minimum on deliveries. Phone 6-9419 600 Union St. cor. Barrett Wm. Green Jr. DAIRY PRODUCTS MILK CREAM • BUTTER EGGS • 1701 Union St. ICE CREAM CHEESE Phone 4-6173 Alumni and Guests are welcome to HALE HOUSE for College Week-End • FRIDAY EVENING 6:30 p. m. Dinner in the Dining Hall of Hale HC!>use N. W. CEASE, Manager ! l: w Sui Pros Z-511 - Vol. LX Poll Hous Fatb Fox Disc Pla1 All t1 expresSE in ·ordeJ end pm campus after n iensis\ of the suggest the ent now he Pi and Presi retary AosiFta Wyatt great seve1·a submi1 nite v ferenc that b to the be th< Bet: hOld fall. 1 pl<tn. admit was I tice ' while If it w whH weel1 athlc class the hoW< wlel pict1 inst< patt son:: L< upo ptO] theJ var dor V\ N Co ce: at• w wl '0( re Sl p: w ti P' a t l I' s

·r ry Weeks Submits Prospectus Z-511 Vol. LXIII., No. 9 Poll Discloses Houses Favor Fathers' Weekend · Fox, Waldron. Wyatt Discuss :Possible Plans for Program All the fraternities except one expn·ssed their desire to ceoperate in ·order to make a fathers' week- end possible on the Union College campus. The question was raised after the results of \The Concord- iensis\ poll were tabulat~:d. On~ of the items on the questionnait·e suggested a weekend to be held '111 the enthe campu~ similar to thos~ now held regularly by :::leta Theta Pi and Chi Psi fraternities. President Dixon Rya1: Fox, Sec- retary Charles N. Wl'l!dron and AosiFtant to the Secretary Frederic Wyatt discussed the proposal n-t great length yesterday afternoon. Several plans and sugg~stions were• submitted although naming dell- nile wa~ decided. After the con- fE'rC'nce, however, it was .J.dmitt~d that bringing the question tlkeclly to the student body would p1·ohahly be the next step. Held in 1922 Beta Theta i:'i and Chi Psi, who hold a fathers' weekend every fall. are not the onginall1rs of tht> pJ,n. In· 19:C2, Eugene Sullivan, '22, administered a fathers' day that was held on the campus. The prac- tice wa:; discontinued after a short whill' for an unknown reason. lf a weekenti is held this year, it will take place in the spting wh<·n the campus is in bloom. The weeltend chosen will include an athletic program and visits to classes and laboratories. One of the dangers in such a procedure, however, is the possibility that the w~ekend will not show a normal picturP of Union College life but instead will be merely a rousing patty for the fathers and theh sons. Local alumni might be called upon to house students during the pt oposed weekend so that the fa- thers would be able to live at the various fraternity houses and dormitories during their stay. --~o,---- Weeks Submits N~ew Prospectus A preview of the \new\ Union College Alumni Monthly has re- cently been distributed to gradu- ates of the college by D. Richard Weeks, '28, inst1 uctor in English, who succeeds Dr. C. N. Waldron. '06, Secretat·y, as editor. Mr. Weeks, who worked on the l'evising of the monthly during the summer and early fall, has pre- pat ed ['. five page leaflet after which he will pattem his publica- tion, the first number of which ap- pem s in November. Considetable space is devoted to athletics with Wilford H. Ketz, as- ~istant professor of physical educa- tion, contributing an article on Union's fcotball team and an out- line of prospects for the 1939 sea- son. Cross-country and freshman Hports articles are also included. Sports Data Included A picture of students leaving daily assembly exercises is on th-: front cover, while the back page b devoted to a picture of Captain Samuel C. Hammerstrom ot' the football team, schedules of the athletic teams and records of rival- ries with other institutions. D1'. Waldron. former editor, con- tributes an articie entitled, \Twas Hero the Old Alumni Sat.\ President Dixon Ryan Fox's ad- dress to the college on opening day and an article concerning registra- tion is also included. Also included in the booklet is an excerpt from a letter by Dr. Walter N. Hess of Hamilton Col- lege. He commends Union for its excellent freshman camp and ex- presses the hope that- Hamilton will soon follow the same proce- dure. Mr. Weeks addresses the alumni in a letter on one of the back pages, describing the new policies and asking for subscriptions. Fiske Denounces War UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1939 PRICE FIVE CENTS First Football Rally .. Is Whooping Success With the largest turnout in the past few years in the van, Union's first pre-football game rally Friday night was a whoop- D.iscussion Group . Graduate Group Meets Wednesday Meets Saturday . ing success. The crowd of students as- sembled at Memorial Chape'l, with the freshmen extremely I conspicuous because their sopho- more lords iorced them to don pajamas for the occasion. After a prelim.i·nary cheer or two to get the throats well function- ing, the ra'iliers rallied behind the band and marched up to the rear of the Beta Theta Pi House where the quarantined Betas sang \The Dutchman Song.\ After hollering for the \inmates the mob dashed off to Council Field where a huge bonfire was blazing merrily away. The cheerleaders led the group in the singing of the Alma Mater as ali concerned formed a huge circle around the fire. Then off they whipped to the Gymnasium where Coaches Nitchman and Ciampa and Captain Hammer- strom spoke briefly. Fraternity Ball Tickets On Sale CommHtee Making Plans for Radio Broadcast Tickets for the Interfraternity Ball, which will be held on Friday evening, November 10. and which will feature the mu.sic of Woody Herman and his· orchestra, are now on sale. The tickets, selling at three dollars, may be procured from any member of the Ball Committee and from Mrs. Jenkins at the Book- state, George Miller, '·10, chairman, announced last night. Miller also announced the 1 aster of his com- mittee. The members are Miller, William Witbeck, '40, Robert Han- son, '40, John Cone. '40, Dave Hay- nor, '40, and Foster Brown, '40. Drawings Held Soon Miller disciosed that arrange- men t.s are being made so that a ra- dio broadcast from the Ball will be possible. All fraternity booths, the committee reports, have been paid for and the drawings will be held in the near future. Each fra- ternity has been given one of Woody Herman's latest phono- graph recordings in order to Jet their respective members hear a sample of what is to come on No- vember 10. Decorations for the Gylmnasium are being approved by the com- mittee and definite plans will be an- nounced within a week. Miller also commented on the fact that the Interfraternity Ball is a dance hon- oring the football team, and that all players will be admitted with no charge. Ralston to Replace Hoffma.n on First Lecture Program Although Gale Hoffman, '40, fou11der of the F0rtnightly Insti- tute, will be 1mable to attend be- cause of the quarantine on the members of Beta Theta Pi Fra- ternity, the newly formed discus- sion group will hold its initial meeting at 8 p. m. in Silliman Hall tomorrow. Hoffman, who was to have made one of the three keynote addresses, will be replaced on the program by Thomas Ralston, '40. Professor Vernon O'Rourke will act as chair- man at the meeting to which all members of the student body and faculty are welcome. \Amet·ican Neutrality\ is the sub- ject which will be discussed tomor- row. After a short opening ad- dress by Professor O'Rourke, th1·ee students will present speeches on the different aspects of the ques- tion. Ralsto11 will discuss the q ues- tion of American neutrality before this country's entrance into the Great War. Harry Sillcck, '40, will speak on neutrality from 1918 to August, 1939. Marvin Lazarus, '40, will bring the question up to date with a tall{ on neutrality since the beginning of the new war in Europe. A fotUm will take place after the three keynotE' addresses. Ques- tions fmm the floor, debates and the presentation of any new views on the subject will be in order. The formation committee of the Fortnightly Institute will hold a regular meeting one week from Wednesday at the Beta Theta Pi House. A rliscussion of the· first meeting and solutions for any faults that may have arisen will be the order of business. ----- o~--- Fra+ernity Council Holds Regular Meeting At its reguiar meeting J,t~t night, the Interfraternity Council devot- ed most of its discussion time to a study of the problems confront- ing the Interfraternity Ball Com- :nittee. Decorators' c<>· :n,atc, wer\ Joo!{ed over, and plans were an- nounced wher·eby decurntors will survey the Gymnasium and li~cidc upon a theme for th\ dan~e. According to David HaynJt', '·JO, pt esident, the Counci~ ha~ 1 ~signed itself to the fact :h'l.t f.:>otball players who live 111 fra:<'rnit; houses will not be able to find ot \ler accommodations for tt'~ night 0f November 10 when the lnwrfr t- ternity Ball will be held. Ha~·nor explained that no singk fratel nity house on the campu~ v.Lul<.l he able to spare enough room on that particular weekend to {ll\L UJl the entire squad. Fred Wyatt, assistant to tlw S!'c- retary, spoke briefly l't!:>out the fra- tenity booklet that the Cuunt:il published last spring. Chan~~c3 for this year's booklet were discn~sed. \Inmates\ At Beta House Cheerful Though Quarantine Is Still Unlifted The twenty-six students and one~- ·-- ---------------- house boy who are quarantined at Living conditions in the house the Beta Theta Pi House are lead- have been completely adequate. ing a quiet existence, to say the Their house boy, who is al:;o cm;- least. Marathon bridge and mo- fined under the quarantme, ts nopoly games arc in progress, and, pinch-hitting for the regular cook strangely, there is plenty of study- and, according to Walter Shaw. '40, ing being done. At the time of this he is very efficient behind a range. writing, the \inmates\ have no No arguments at all J:ave ens~ed. idea as to when they will be able Assignments are bemg receiVed to ]eave the house. via telephone every evening. All Although the Betas are litet·ally the men are keeping up with their quarantined in their house, they've respective classes and the engi- been engaging to touch football neers especially are putting in long games on their lawn and playing a hours behind a set of books. bit of tennis on Phi Gamma At present, the \inmates\ arc Delta's court. Chagrined because cheerful and hopeful, cheerful be- they were unable to see Union play cause there is not much sense in Middlebury Saturday, they drifted being otherwise, and hopeful that over to the road outside of Alex- they'll get out soon. The lowest ander Field after ascertaining that ebb was hit Saturday at noontime, all the spectators were inside the but they compensated for the gate and followed the game by the gloom by having a beer party that nublic address system. This ar- night. rangement was very satisfactory Editor's Note: John Giles, '42, of until three pugnacious Schenec- Binghamton is ill with scarlet tady policemen, thinking they were fever, not Benjamin Guiler:., '43, undesirable townsfolk, tried to as reported in Friday's ''Con- force them to leave. cordlensis.\ Resolution Urging Repair of Fields Is Adopted LeRoy J. Weed, '01, was re-elec- ted chairman ol' the Graduate Council at its meeting Saturday noon in the Trophy Room of the Gymnasium. Philip S. DtJrlon, '89, I<'. B. Richards, '88, and Dr. C. N. Waldron, '06, were elected vice- chairman, treasu1•er and ~ecretary. respectively. The Council adopted the follow- J.ng; resolution: nesolved, that the athletic fields committee be con- tinued and that subscriptions here- tofor made for the improvemen• of the athletic field be made avail- able for the use of the college fm the improvement of Alexander 1!1eld as pt oposed by the college authorities; that, as it is the opin- ion of thi,; ccuncil that the present athletic fields are not adequate for the needs of the department of physical education, the board of t1 ustees of the college be urged to develop a definite program to the end that adequate fields may be provided, and that further ~ub­ scriptions received be accumulated fo1· such athletic field development as may be app10ved by the Coun- cil.\ Funds totaling $3,130 were voted by the Council. These includeci .~~.500 to the loan fund; $230 to the Outing Club; $100 for filing equip- ment and $300 for the exchange student to St. Andrew~ University, Scotland. Other business included the re- election of the following members- at-large to the executive committee of the Council: D1·. Fmnk Vander Boga1 t, '95, Dickinson E. Griffith, '02, E. L. Bakc1·, 'H, S. M. Hes:;en '27, and Philip L. Thomson, ·oo, to succeed Burton B. Delack, '36, who resign- ed. F'. J. M. Clute. '16, was l'einstated as his class repre~entative and E. Zeh Hawkes, ·~1. as member-at- large. Spencer B. Eddy, '18, was elected to succeed himself as alum- ni trustee, term eKpiring 1944. 0 Chemical Society To Hold Meeting Convening on the campus Thurs- day night for its 212th meeting, the Eastern New York Section of the AmPrican ChE'mical Society will hear Paul H. Groggins. senior chemist of the Industrial Farm Products Research Division of the United States Department of Agriculture at Washington, speak on the subject \High-Lights on Recent Organic Synthesis.\ PrecPding the colloquium, which will be held in Butterfield Chem- istry Laboratory at 8:15, an infor- mal group dinnet· will take place in Hale House at 7 o'clock. Mr. Groggins is considered an authority in the field of amination by ammonolysis and the Friedel and Crafts reaction. A graduate of the College of the City of New York, he became a chemical engi- neer with the duPont Company following graduation in 1912. Leav- ing duPont in 1920, he held suc- cessive positions with Veribest Chemicals, Tower Manufacturing- Company, and the Monsanto Chem- ical works. He assumed his gov- ernment post with the Bureau of Agricultural Chemistry and Engi- neering in Washington in 1926. His present interests have been in unit processes in organic synthesis an.d the application of organic synthesis to agricultu• al raw materials. The follo\Vtitg officers for 1939-40 have been announced by the so- ciety: Chairman, Dr. H. M. Faigen- baum of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute; Vice-Chairman, Dr. F. J. Norton of the General Eioctric Company Research Laboratory; Secretary-Treasurer, Dr. Egbert K. Bacon of Union College; and Coun- cillors, Dr. Charles B. Hurd, of Union College and Dr. A. L. Mar- shall of the General Electric Com- pany, Nine Sen1ors Chosen As Membe:rs At Phi Beta Kappa Fall Election Cole, Cornell, Eisner. Fitz. G.rabicki. Lazarus, Silleck. T osh and W atit Achieve Highest Scholastic Honor Nine seniors were elected to the Alpha of New York Chap- ter of Phi Beta Kappa at the society's fall meeting Friday aftemoon. The men chosen by the chapter were Quintin P. Cole, Alexander Cornell, Robert R. Eisner, Edwin A. Fitz, Jr., Peter Z. Grabicki, Marvin Lazal'Us, Harry G. Silleck, Jl'., W. Stewart Tosh and Donald Wait. ----------------<$ One-third of the senior class who Class Contests To Start Friday I are studying for a Bachelor of Arts Degree are eligible for· election to Phi Beta Kappa. Alpha of New York Chapter, however, rar·ely Ketz. Carr Discuss Plans for Organized Interclass Competition As <'.n outgrowth of the inter- class spirit that has been displayed thus far by the freshman and sophomm e clas.'5es, Professor Wil- fred Ketz and Louis Carr, '40, pt esident of the Student Council, are completing plans for a p1 o- gr am of interclass competition to include participation of all four classes. The competition will be of an athletio nature and will include ulmost all the events that are in- cluded in the intramural program. The first contest will be a touch football game to be held Friday at 12:4[) p. m. between teams repre- senting the fteshman and sopho- mom clas~es. Carr announced that the func- tion of the entire .program will be to make the students elass con- scious. He also asked that all the classes, notably the senior and junior clas,;es, cooperate. Plans Being Conside1·ed Although events have already been scheduled, Professor Ketz, who met with the class presidents Friday aftetnoon, has not yet de- cided upon a set policy to be fol- lowen throughout the year. One plan that has received considerable attention would include the presen- tation of a cup to the fraternity or neutral group which has the high- est pe!'centage of its men com- peting. One of the main difficulties that Ketz is facing is trying to develop a system wherein all the members of every cluss will be able to com- pete in some contests and still have the plan work so that no more than one fraternity will be able to qual- ify for the cup. Regardless as to what plans are made concerning the competing of the members of different groups on the campus, the class which wins the greatest number of events will have its numerals engraved on the Interclass Competition Plaque in the Gymnasium. -- ·---0----- Dr. Fiske Denounces European War The Christian's position in the present European war was ex~ plained by the Rt. Rev. Charles Fiske of Baltimore, Maryland. The Rev. Mr. Fiske is the former Bish- op of Central New YorK In Me- morial Chapel Sunday morning, he discussed the aspects of the war that the Christian could solve. \People ask why God doesn't stop the war, not realizing that God could not possibly stop the war without taking away His greatest gift to man--free will,\ said Rev. Fiske. He further ex- plained that Christ came an earth to make men great, not to make life easy and that Christians should be pacific in His principle that if one is smote on one cheek to turn the other. The world hates war, according to Dr. Fiske, because it causes huge material losses, sacrifices lives, and is stupidly foolish. To conclude his sermon he said, \We seem to have no passion for righteousness . and very little for self-sacrifice. War is a Christian- ity with a blazing sword.\ chooses more than twelve men dur- ing the entire year. Another elec- tion will be held in the spring. Th~ choices are based on scholarship and charactel' and generally men who stand highest in their class are chosen for membership. The Alpha of New York Chapter was estab- li~hed in 1817, this being its 122nd year. Six Social Studies Men The formal· initiation, followed by a dinner, will be held in Hale House at 6:30 p. m. on October 25. Dr. Fran!{ P. Graves, Commissioner of Education for New York State, wi.Jl be the speaker. Cole is emolled in the pr·e-med- ical Division and lives in Saratoga Springs. Cornell, a social studies student, makes his home in Albany. He is a member of both the Hale Club and the Social Studies Club. Eisner, a social studies student from Poughkeepsie, is the business manager of \The Concordiensis.\ He is a member of the Social Studies Club and of the Interna- tional Relations Club. In his junior year, he was the managing editor of the \Garnet\. He is affiliated with Kappa Nu Frat~rnity. Fitz lives in Schenectady and is studying language and literature. He sings in the choir and the glee club and is in charge of publicity for the latter group. He holds the position of feature editor on \The Concordiensis\ and is president of the Classical Club. He has done work for the Mountebanks and the Radio Workshop and is a member of Hale Club. Grabicki is from Schenectady and is taking a pre-medical course. Lazarus, a social studies student, lives in Albany. He holds mem- bership in the Social Studies Club and is president of the Philoma- thean Society. He is affiliated with Kappa Nu Fraternity. Silleck, who lives in Peekskill, is a social studies student and is a member of the Social Studies Club. Tosh, who is enrolled in social studies division, lives in Schenec- tady and !S affiliated with Delta Phi Fraternity. He is the senior member of the Student Tax Com- mittee and is also on the Publica- tions Board. He is a member of the Christian Association. Wait, of Watertown, is a social studies student. -~-o--- Outing Club to Take Lake George Trip The Outing Club will take a long- deferred canoe tl'ip with the out- ing clubs of R. P. I., M. I. T., Vas- sar, Radcliffe and Skidmore next week-end, October 21-22. The trip will be held on Lake George, ac- cording to Fred Wyatt, faculty ad- visor to the uting Club, and the charge for canoes will not exceed seventy-five cents per person. At the same time, another group of Outing Club members will go to the cabin at North Creek to prepare it for the winter season. \The well has to be fixed among other things,\ \'aid Mr. Wiatt. \The water was muddy, but we asked the WGY Farm Forum what to do and they told us.\ In a meeting on Saturday, the Graduate Council voted the Outing Club $230 for improvements on their cabin and the grounds. This donation followed one that was given a year ago for the purchase of the ground on which the cabin is built.

,I ,I Page Two THE CONCOHDIENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1939 aJnn.cnr I TH\~.~~nAh~E'~:~a~l~~eS blame fur this wnr! I The Unhealthy Animal I rests on the shoulders of one man, the Ger- II . Radio Workshop to Manage Special Dupre Broadcast Over WGY !riday_ fOUNDED 1877 . man Chancdlor, Neville Chamberlain ended .. -j 1 ~ib~~~ .. ~~~~::, ~~~ 0 ~',Ti 1 r:2~et'~u~~ the era of l'eason in Great Britain and key- day, one would find Union nestled noted the era of propa.ganda. ~lr. Chamber- neatly among endlrs~ other foot· ball scores. Why not have an \:/ Causa Pasa Parol,• :lssai\ :\h·rnbt·r t~t' tltt• A~~ndatPd l't•llvgiatc PrL•ss an~l dt:-.trilntttJl nf tlH~ l_'oilt·~i,\tl' llige~t. ~l'n~7l:E\TDt•W~jl,ljlt·I ~i·ilt:• -;.;tliil~·l~l-;::--,-,1~1~ l'IIIIL·~t>. Pu·bli:-..lwd Tttt·:-.da) ;tud Friday:-; thl'tlU,t-.dt- thil tnt~ t·u!h gt• Yt•:ll. ElfiTol·filt-HiiUili~~iltntailif~tT-1, -c·~~i~•ll t·~·llt·gt• 1 '.llllJllb. Tt lt:•rtlHHlt>, ~:kht•llt•l'tany. lwll] :~:1. ·l'uhli<•uuon O.fl'ic~;fi\;. tiazL'ttL· 1 ;-1:-t•:-.!--, ;f:iT:'-5~-~·ft:: lain, lil<e a clevel' pl'opagandist, told not a lie artielt' at'cepted conceming ouz IJtH. a half-truth. lie realized that half-truths home games'? Ce1tainly some in- tei e>t in this yrar's team lies many miles away from Schenectady and the Capitol District. Ve1y provin- cial, very provincial. S.•_•hHlL'L't'ad:-·, ): Y ., '1\•}pphutlP ·1-4.111 Tiu tt:l'toLl at t lit! SL:}wl·l.ili~(~~ t lJn il'l~ as :::ll'l-;;r~t l'l;u:t-,; :\[a.il :.\~attt•r. sUl:JS~l-llJtlUll lll'tt•t• l•l\'L' n·tll'~ a t'UJIY; $3.l1U a YL':ll'. d~;:llVL'l'Ptl an~whl'll' IH tht> {~llltl•tl Stah'~. Senior Board Lawrence V. Pellettier, Jr ....... Editor-in-Chief 24 N. S. South College-6-9\28 Hobert R. Eisner ............ Business Manager Kappa Nu House-4-7331 C. Russell Deyo ............... Managing Editor C.: hi Psi Lodge- -4-6527 Gporge J,oadwiclt Pec!L .......... Sports Editor 838 Union St. 6-3548 Christopher l\1. Fahy .............. New:; Editor Delta Upsilon House- -l-7922 Edwin A. Fitz, Jr ................ Feature Editor 1254 Glenwood Blvd. 4-2867 Jacl• Rabinowitz .......... Circulation Manager Phi Sigma Delta House--·6-0765 RePRESENTED FOR NAT\ONAL. ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. Co/lege P11blishers Representati~e 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y. CHICAGO • BO~TOU • LOS ANG£LES 1 SAN FRANCISCO -------····~~~~- John Lewis Paul Becker Jtmior Board James Twining Robert Schulberg John Phillips Sophomore Board Alexander Arony, Armand Fiegenbaum, John G10w, Samuel Portnoy, Jonathan Pearson, Solo- mon Blechman Business :Staff .:\ruly Ka~. .Ju~lin I'd 1:-:tdlt, ~t.lnh·y t ~n·t·ll~tP!ll. I JOitald I I:ugli, lJ:U··ILtr ~dl\\. a rtz, .\1 t litH I 1 .1 \'1~. .\'!.' 1'1111 ~1111.;. Iss uP I-:ditm·. . Hobert Srhulher:; Assistants J. Pearson J. Twining Tuesday, Octobet· 17, 1939 -~~-=== --=-=-=---=- ~--= are far more effective than lies because they are rm· 1110J'e difficult to detect. This particular half-truth is not very hard to analyze. As Chamberlain charges, Hitler did precipitate the pre::;ent conflict, but he did not create the fundamental antag·onisms which led up to Septembe1· 1, 1939. Ilitler cannot be blamed i'or the desperation of the Cerman people in 1933. Ile took advantage of it, yes; but if National Socialism had not appeared some other ractical movement would have. lt i::; the respon::;ibility of the victor::; in the First \\'ol'lct \\'ar that Germany wa::; reduced to desperation. They are to blame for driv- ing the (~erman people to Ilitlerism. As long as then' \\'as a democratic government in Germany they refused to make any conces- ::;ions. They refused to disarm, they refused to allow a customs union with Austria, they refu::;ed to make any concessions of ten·itory or priYileges for minorities, they insisted on minous 1·eparations payments. The United S<:ates has its share in this responsibility; if it had not insisted on an impo::;sibility, the payment of the war debts, the British and F1·ench \\'(\Uld not luwe insisted on repara- tion::;, which they needed only so long as the~ harl to tt·~· to pay the ,,·m· debts. The Wei- mar Republic and democratic govemment in Gemum~· could have been saved l>y timely concessions. but the democratic powers re- fused to grant them. So the German people found that nothing short of force m· the threat of force could move the \peace-lov- HAIL! ing\ powers, and since 1933 they have been The Concordiensis offers its ,,·hnlehf:'<trter! t1ying: the::;e grim weapons with good suc- congTatula.tions to the nine men who have cess. been elected to Phi Beta Kappa. The most discouraging aspect of the whole In the last analysis, scholarship is the situation is that there are no indications that primm~· purpose of an institution of higher things will be better after this Second \Vorld learning, and election to Phi Beta Kappa .is Wa1· is ended. We are witnessing a vicious the highest honm· obtainable by a student cycle in which wars engender bate which working for a Hachelo1· of Arts DegTee. causes new wars and more hate. It seems to Hail to Cole. Cornell, Eisner. Fitz. Gra- be impossible for a people to fight a war bicki, Lazaru::;, Silleck, Tosh and \\'ait. without building up so much hatred of the A WORTHWHILE INSTITUTION Paradoxical ag it mig-ht appear, it is prob- ablv true that American college students, as a ~vhole, are among· the poorest informed gToups in the matter of CUlTent events. Tolerably well versed in irregular verbs, very much au courant as to :\lr. Di.:\Iag-gio's batting avenw:e, and able to recit.: by rote the terms of the \. ersaille T1·eaty, th.e aver- age undergraduate is, however. hard p1·essed to outline the ,;alient pointg of the :\lunich settlement. Although he can recite, parrot fashion, the causes of the Thirty Years' War, toclay's student has little comprehension of the actual backg-l'Ound of the present Euro- pean conflict. His p1·ejudices, opinions, and conversations are all too lil\ely to be gained from the sketchy details supplied by a cur- soQ· reading of newspaper headlines. Our purpose is not to censure, but is merely to point out what, unfortunately, is a statement of fact: colleg-e students are not ·well acquainted with the historr of thei1· own day. A possible ameloriation of this condition may be supplied at l'nion b~· the newly formed Fortnightly I n::;titute, which will meet in Silliman Hall tomonow evening, and on alternate Wednesday evenings thereafter. The group plans to discuss a topic of con- temporary interest at each meeting. The subject for tomorl'ow's meeting· is to be the all-important one of neutrality. The p1·ocedure will he entirely informal. enemy that a reasonable peace is impossible. Already the British and French have begun to foster hatred. \\'hat indications have the~· g·iven that this time if they win they will make a peace ,,·ithout vengeance? As the propaganda increases let us remember that there are two sides; the British and French are fighting to exercise a devil that they themselves mised. -Hobart Ilentld OUR COLLEGIATE CONTEMPORARIES TrPnchant is the comment of thP sports col- umnist of the COLGA 1'1<~ MAROON in his treat- nll'nt of the Red RaidPrs' early game-s.. \Tbe student ~pirit literaJiy smells this year. And as much can be said of thE' team's spirit to win game:;;, We tbinli t.hat they haven't got thP will to win, that the;y aren't in condition, and that the3· arPn't coopf'rating on thf' fiPid with one an- othPr .... V\'1• hPat· that the h<'at in North Carolina that made the score roll to 37-0. The Blue Devils wet·e playing in their bathing suits so they didn't mind it. There was a time when a football player was afraid to be seen downtown after ten o'clock-but these beautiful warm nights ;you can run into one at practically any hour.\ * Statistics compiied h.Y thP DPan's Office at ut l\'ILUA!\'iS ('OU.UO:GE t'Pveal that l'iPnior scholar~<hi]l rosP appreciably after the introdue- tion of B ,-~·stem which Jlet·miUPd unlimitPd \cuts\ b fourth ypar men. An av<'rage of si:dy-fivp p{'I' crnt of tlw >t•niors I:PttPrPJ their gra<les of tte y<':H' hPfor£', against an m;pragP of twPnty-eight rPr C<'nt who failt'd to Pqual their average thP pr?reeuinp; yt•ar. Th P!mrV£'.1' showpJ that the stu- dPnts with \helow C\ avPragPs \cut\ mm·p than any !>thPr :;roup. * Students and faculty members will read brief papers presenting- altemative views of the topic in question. Following- the reading of the papers, the meeting· v .. ·ill be turned over to the audience, at which time spectators may question speakers and offer theh· own . Tlw StmlPnt Council, ns well as the dPan of stu- dPnts, will disf'iplinp HTIWI<~NS INSTITUTE sophomores whn \Dppants\ freshmen i!lPgally. {:ndl'l' pro.pospd t'Pgnlations, the \depantsing\ of tiJP first ~·eat· men will be sanctioned \only if 'lhe frPshmPn violat.P thP rules of conduct as :oet lorth h; tlw lmndbook, i. P., wPa-ring of dinl•s and blacli socl,s, displa~· of thP han!lbooh: in the upper left- hand IJocltet of tile coat, and mE'morization of the Alma Mater.\ views. A few day~ ago Roy Webdel' got up, feeling satisfied with the world, after finh;hing one of M1·s. Cease's Hale House meals. When he dug lot· his ticl,et, he dropped more than he bargained f 01, and it wasn't a .pass to Pt•octm·s. Vezy err.·banassing, very emb:trra;>'ing. Jal•e \Party Boy\ Van Aernam was reported to be lurldn?; in Nm·thampton la:ot wee!,end Alter last ~Par's I\e2orcl of a smat t .000 batting averae,e. he had bettez :<tic], to Vassar's lire C<capes. Some fre:;hman let his >ehool \pirit raise havcc with ·his little mma. While collecting wood lot the rally, he tore cown the nicest ten ~·arc! ,;tri·p of picl,et fence that's been seen blazing away in many a rr.oon. Speaking of the ra::y, the bant' must bP C'omplimc>ntet': they really tUt·ned out. It added a great deal to the festivitiet>, as did the apple,; suppliPd by :vl1s. Fox. Only t·hree people werP repm ted mad-- from being hit with mut>hy apple cores. Two idcly biddy students were ever· heard, as they >troce down State Sl! eet with the re,;t of the mob muttering under their collective breath, \Dynamite the joint.\ The next moment they were tossing two inch fit·e ct·ackers azound like mat' much to the disgust and diRap- proval of the towmfolk -and the police. At the tally's 19th hole, the Van C, lo and b!'hcld, what vision met our e} es. That package of disinte- grated T. N. T., Robel'\ \Keeper ot the Jug\ McEnet·ney, and a very fad sight. at that. He was oup- ported by his stablemate \Sleepy\ Lewis, Tony·~. '39. Then ·rounding out the com):lett> quaztet were James \Keeper of the Jug\ Mul- care and Herb Grant. They dashed off a vet y wet weekend. Nothing like being an old grad--what? The story of why DuCley Holmes didn't appear on the campus until last Monday now may be told. It's a sad story of e::capadec with the law. Believe it 01 not. \Ludvig\, his car. managed to go ov<'r filty. But not the judge'\ fine! $50, count 'em, fifty dollar-; .paya•ble to the Northampton Police Depart- ment. Bettet· join t.he \Not Over Fifty Club\ Dudley. A I ew da~ s ago one might have ncticed a large camera t ecordlng familiar campus builcings reason: \G:unet\ business Giving the pic- tm es an informal touch, a smart!~ dressed dudent, either going th10ugh the motions of walking in or out of the various -builcings, be- ing photographed. The perwn: \·Garnet\ Editor Crosby. Ed Enstice tailc>d his man around that foctball field so well, one would think that the man f10m Middlebury owed him the coming war C:ebt. Flash: Runner superb, MacMit- chell, N Y. U.s threat to records, was 500 ya t cls ahead in the bm' h country of the cross-counhy course and petered out. -T. B. 0-- NOTICES PRE-MEDI!C'AL TESTS The ac!'oc;ation of AmPl\ican M!\dical Colleges' Aptitude Test will be giv!'n on November 28. 1939. The tPst should be taken by all students who expect to apply for cntt ance to a Medical School by th<' fall of 1940. The test has been adcpted by the Associstion as one of the normal requirements for admission. It measures one's abil- ity to learn material similiar to that which he will have in Medi- cal School. It also measures his general information and scientific background and his ability to draw accurat£' conclusions from a giv~;n oct of <lata. Students should make application immediately at the Of- fiCP of the Dean. ThP time of the te~t will be Tuesday, November ::!-'. at <I p. m. This will be the only time thc> test will be given this year. The place of the test will be the Civil Engineering Building, Room 106. A fee of one dollar is required of each student taking the test, payable at the time the test is taken. CHI PSI PLEDGE The Chi Psi Fraternity announces the pledging of Robert Killough Bt~ker, '42. BLOCK 'U' BLOTTERS Students may secure \Block U\ blotters by calling at the Student Activities Office any time this week The blotters have already been distributed to the fraternity houses·. MarcPI Dupte, who plays her<' in • the Memorial Chapel on Friday evPning, will be heard in a special fifteen-minute bzoaclcast over WGY flam 1:30 to 1:45 on Fz iday after- noon. playing on the Casavant o1·gan in the chapel. Arrange- nwnts have been mad£' to have his concert in the evening broadcast intet nationally by WGEA. the Gen- eral Electric Company':; short-wave station. The continuity and other ar-. ranaements for the broadcast are bf.'i..;'g completed by the Union Col- IPge Radio Workshop, which group has assigned Edwin A. Fit7., Jr., '40, to prepare the script. For the a.fter- b:-azy staff member. During his quart<'l'-hour broad- cast, Dupt e will choos£' a program from the following numbers·: Bach's Toccata and Fngut' in El minor, Schumann's Canm1 in B minor, Daquin's The Cuclwo, and two of his own compositions, BN- eetiSt' and Fi!iPusP. Dupre comes to Schenectady for his third recital here since 1933 from ?. successful concert tour of Au~tralia. During his appearances on that continPnt, he was feted with receptio.ns in many citif.'s. at one of which the lord may<n' of MARCI<~L IDUJ>H.E Sydney and other notables were -. - Tern- present. M. Rntl Mme. Dupre sailed 'I four separ~t: te~ttals at ~~ York from Sydney on August 31, and pie of. Rell.gJOn at the Ne sincP that time, the organist has I Wmld s Falr. . bec>n touring· the eastern section of, His. ~aughter, Margu~nte. Dupre, the United States, having given I has Jomed her fathPI thzs past 1 week-end, 11nd to~ether, t11C'y wtll r:===============;t I tcur the countty until the middle I of December. Among the composi- tions which she and her father will play togPther Friday night are CRITIQUE J.!:::=============~ F1 anck's Symphnnic Variations, ar- Definitely inferior to A Stat• is Born Ol' AIE'xa.ndPI''s Ragtime Band, Hollywood Ca\•alcarte wonlrl have been a fine sh01 t with the Keystone Cops, Ben Turpin, AI Jol- son, Pncl Buster Keaton. If it had been done that way, it would have had a lot of umpfh which many tevivecl movie,; hold. And that takes us to the subject of the series of films from the distant past which was pi e~ented through the Mu.;;eum of Modc>rn Art last winter by the Mountebanks. Tho\e pictures we1·e generally enjoyed. ranged by Dup1 e for piano nne! organ. Library Purchases Twenty-one Books Twenty-one nf'w books have been placed on the shelves of the libraz y, it was announced yester- day by Miss Mildred Thomsen, li- The tit!es of the new books and their authors follows: \Small Beer,\ L. Behelman: \Children of God,\ \'. Fishc>r: \The Prodigal Patents,\ S. Lewis: \Factories in the Field,\ C. MacWilliams; \The StrangE's! Places,\ L. Q. Ross; \Gmres of Wrath\ J. Steinbeck; \Tortilla Flat,\ J. StE'ir.beck: \Not Peace But a Sword,\ V. Sheean; \Ametica Now,\ H. E. Stearns: \You and HC'reditr.\ A. Schein- freid. Also \Documents and Reading in the History of Eutope Since 1918.\ W. C. Langsam: \Seasoned Tim- ber,\ D. C. Fischer; \Through Emba>\sy Eyes,\ M. E. Dodd; \Hunt>'man What Quany?\' E. St Vincent Mi:Iay: \Tonight at R:3o.·· N. Coward: \Harll'quin House,\ :\1. Shrap: \ThP Btandons,\ A. Thirkell: \In~idP Asia,\ J. Gun- But we have F\ project which we 0ffer in all our innocence to Holly· wood and its typhoonies, that of a geries of pictures, each one com- plete in itself. yet on the whole portiaying :;orne chapter of a world's events. I'd like to sPe a film o·J Teddy Roosevelt a..~ the cential figure. And, of ccurst', fer Disney would be a mu1 der mys- tery occurl'lng on the frozen Sibet- ian tunclzas through which the tor- rid Om flows. Characters: Hiram Duck-Billed Platypus, Alice Albino Penguin, Cornelius Terrapin and Confusion Swordfish. Hiram loves Alice, Cornelius cuts in and Con- !ru;ion decides the matter because he is Alice's stepson. He1 e we came in and DisnPy takes over. ' ther; \Death of thP Heart.\ E. :Bowen: \Dither' and Jittt'rs,\ C. 0. ,----------------·:Skinner: \A T1easury of AI'\ Mas- [ terpieces,\ L. Craven. C.M. CALENDAR \VednPsday 10:00 a. m. Daily Assembly. Speaker, Henry C. ME'adow, '40. 1 :DO p. m. Parts Glee Club R<'· hearsal. Hanna Hall. 3:30 p. m. Entire Glee Club Rehea1 sal. Hanna Hall. Thursdav 10:00 a. m. Daily As~embly. SpPaker·, Freel W. Fisch, '18. l:CO p.m.-Glee Club Rehem8al. Hann~ Hall. 6:30 p. m. American Che::nicnl Scciety Dinner. Hale House. 8:C) p. m.--American Chemical i Society Meeting. Speake!·, Dr. 1 F'. H. Groggins, Buteau of Agricultm e, Washington, D. C. Chemical LalJOratory. Friday 10:00 a. m. - Daily Assembly. Orr; an t ecital, Dr. E. A. Tid- mal sh. 1:00 p. m. Glee Club Rehearsal. Hanna Hall. * Joseph F~ Connelly for Mayor of Schenectady DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE 1!-aarmt<~nus B!eeeker Hall Albany Mon.-Tues., Oct. 23-24 Matinee on Tues., Oct. 24 A full evening of laugh- packed entertainment. LAURENCE RIVERS, Inc. presents f:ldwarcl i:-1terett Hot·~on on the stage in Sprin~time f~r He~ry _blf Bern W. Levy w1th a splendid cast of stage favorites , SEATS NOW ON SAlLE F,ws.: $2,00, ifl.50, $1.00, 50c Plus Mat.: $1.50, $1.00, 75c, 50c Tax UN Ham:n Sco:re Du' As Paced 1: the Union period Sat dlebury C score of : l!lerstrom five tcuct in 31 !I 1 ' was inst· three oth• I I I The G2 stat t aft! bury, w: hall back, pass on three pia on its ow vannier thrc~: ya by Ham ,;econd t an atter J:I]Ue un Hamme, vannier through plays. union stopped. Garnet other f after w tis gai1 HammE tackle I eluding in 13 1= mediat• Balch the ext put Ur f'l' Miele ;;arne isecl t< stoppe bled e two ' the l•i on it: up an \Vis hi pass enGed Ag£ est. r only inter' Unio Capt on C nier. yard to a thrc· rie. sldr· Mid, mar net': n1is~ son u wh! ly cen one \) ~ wit cat SC\ sui Un ag jUJ <1f Ul th u it Ol ('] ir 4' a s ll l. t l I

ll y em- ark pre. 1a.st Will Idle osi- wi\1 are a r- and 1ave the ter·- ' li- and nail of igal in The n.ss; ~ck; Not ~an; t·ns; ein- g- in 118.\ .'im- ugh ldd; St. :30.\' rse,\ A. }unR E. ;. o. ~as- Ius \X I THE CONCOHDIENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1939 Page Three . UNI N VA SITY TROUNCES MIDDLEBURY 31 - 7 ~----------------------~--- Hamn:serstrom~ Patrie And Eustice Sco:re Touchdowns As G.arnet Wins Dutchman Offense Clicks i:n Each Period As Panther's Defense Weakens Noticahly ~- ~ - - -- - -- - Paced by an inspir·ed captain, the Union varsity .sco·ted in every peliod Saturday ir\ defeating Mid- dlebury College by a one-sided score of 31-7. CaptaiH Sam Ham- mel'Strorn scored two of Union's five tGuchdown~. raced 115 yard.~ in 31 tlJes from scrimmage an J was instrumental in setting up three other Gat net touchdowns. The Gamet got ofi to an ea.rJ~· stat t after ldcKing off to Middle- bury, when JacK Vannier, lett haf.tbacl,, intercepted a Panthel' pass on his own 30 yard line. In tnree plays Union had a 111st down on its own 42 on successive runs by vannier and Hammen;trom. A thre~ yard ddve on fourth down by J:Iamme1 strom gave Union its second tirst after· it had failed on an attempted pa~s and the heavy Blue and White !me had 1·epulsed Hamme, st10m. but failed to stop Vannier who pickec.l up nmc yards through tackle, on the lirst three plays. union's march was nol to be stoppec.l. Two center r·ushcs by the Garnet captain accounted for ail·· other first to the MicLdlebury 31 after whic.1 wingbacK George Nm- ris gained 16 yar·ds on a 1ever,;c. Hammerstrom then sliced through tackle for Union·s initial score con- cludinp; a 70 ,·ard sustained dnve in 13 plays. Lee Sherman was im- mediately substituted for Dick Balch at quarte1 back and kicked the extra point from placement to put Union out in front 7-0. f'liiddlebury Starts Drive Middlebury carne back in this ,;arne perioC\ to begin what prom- ised to be a long drive only to be stopped when John Mahoney fum- bled after the Panthers had made two successive first downs after the kick-off. Union, taking the ball on its own 32 yard line, chalked up another !ir·~t down before T~ny \Vishin>'ki inte1cepted a Unwn pass for Middlebury as the period PnLed. Again Middlebmy began in earn· est, making two more first downs only to lose the ball when Balch intercepted an attempted pass on Union's 24 yard line. In three plays, Captain Hamme1strom had the ball on Union's 43 at which point Van- nier·, 1 unning laterally on the 40 yar·d line leaped high in the air to avoid Middlebury blockers and thr·ew a 35 yard pass to Fred Pat- rie, Union's right halfbaclt, who sltirted the sidelines to pass the Middlebury sa.fety mm: and 1 ace 25 more yards to account for the Gar- llPt's second touchdown. Sherman I missed his lit st attempt this s~a-' son to conve1·t from placemPnt. 8TATI8'f[C~ OF GAME u First downs ........... 17 First downs rushing .... 12 Fit st downs passine;. . . . . . 3 Fitst downs penalties.... 2 Total yards gained ...... 317 Ya1·ds gained rushing .... 214 Yards gained passing .... 103 Forward passes attemptec.l 8 For wat d passes completed 3 Average di>!tance of punts 20 M. 6 4 1 1 136 94 42 17 3 33 th1ec quarantined Betas didn't ge; to play. Union ccorcd 17 first downs to eight fJr Middlebury and gained 214 yaTds rushing to the Panther .. \ 94. 'rhe suwma~1·~·: Union l'es Bothwell...... LE W. Baker ..... LT Kearns ........ LG Molloy ......... C Kr·ull .......... RG Kluge ........ RT Guibert ....... RE Balch ........ QB Vannier ....... RH Norr·is ........ RH Hammero'trom FB Score by pe1·iods: Middlehm·) ......... Betr; .......... P!·of> ........ Prukop . . . . . , .. Stabil·· ........ Vartull .......... Ros~ . . . . . . Crawfon.1 ...... MahonPy .... J. J OllllSOI' .... L. John~on .... Wishinsk1 L'nion ..... 7 12 6 7 6 31 0 7 !\lliddlebury ....... 0 0 Touchdowns - Union - Hammel- ~trom <2), Patrie t2l, Enstice. Mid- dlebury-J. Johnson. Extra points-~ Union, Sher·man; Middlebury, Mahoney. Substitn- tionE - Union, Clowe, Hallenbeck, Howgate, Stanco, R. Balw1·, Burns, Davis, Reynolds, Griffith, Genitz Lynn, Mills, Ens:ice. Goldblatt, Marotta, Sherman, Friedman. Eis ncr and Weintraub. Middlebu1y, Tupita, Sanford, Mayo, Kedmenie and Clapper. Officials: Referee Edward J. Kearney, SyracusE'; Umpn·e, J. Franklin Fanell, Mich- igan; P. Paul Milles, Cornell. Stars for Garnet Union's third touchdown cam<' when the second 4uarter was near- ly at an end. Bob Molloy, Garnet center, 1 t'Cover ed Middlebury's S<'<'- ond costly fumble on the Panther's , 8 yard line. An enc.l around play 1 ll_...Ba~~~ with Bob Davis, substitute end, I carrving the hall accounted fur I seve~ yards and then Ed Enstice, ·- -~-- -· - -- ----------- substitute halfback, tallied for ~==============it Union through the> line. Union · C. S. M 0 0 I) Y ap;ain failed to convert a~ Patrie ; Optometrist juggled the pass fr·om center. 'I'he i Garnet Jed 1\:l-0 at half time. Eyes L'xamined, Glasses Fitted BluE> and \Whitt• Hcm·e The G3r net offen~e was bottled up for the fii·~t timl' shol tl:,· after the second half began and after Union had been fm ced to punt to its own 47. Midclebury be;;an its only touchdown drive. The Panth- , crs were forced to punt after mal<-' inrr but one first down from til<' 47~aided by a five yard offside pen- alty against the Garnet. Jaclt John- son, left halt:oaclt, punted and Mic!dlebmy t·ecovered the ball when Union fumbled on the runback of the kick. With this break, Middle- bury, after gammg no ground 1 through the line th1 ew a dPsperat~! pass. Union interferred with the: potential teceiver and Middlebury was given the ball on the one yat o line. Johnson scored through the line and John Mahoney sliced tackle for the extra point. After an exchange of kicks in the last quarter a pass intercep- tion by the Garnet, set up Union's last tally from Middlebury's 20 yard line. Lee She1·man caught a toss from Dick Griffith, substitute fullback for 11 yards and Ed illn~ stice crashed through the c~nt~r of the line for three more, FJ·I!d Pattie picked up the needed s1x yards on a reverse through tackle to score the last of Union's 31 points. Bob Davis's kick was b:ock- ed as he tried to convert. Coach Nelson W. Nitchman used ~ve1y man on the bench and ,mly TE'lephone 0-5747 Three Docn·s from State St. ----·------~-·---- Pleasant Valley Meat Market 8 Home of Sunshine Meat Products 586-592 BROADWAY Phone 4-3181-2-3-4 Freeman's High Quality WALLPAPER PAINT GLASS For .Past 142 Years Freeman & Song Incorporated Phone 4-9155 12-20 Erie Blvd. ' V cu~sity Harriers Lose Second Meet To N. Y. U. Runners Fall Track Meet Rules I Morrisville Aggies Nott Terrace Jayvees 1. A team of at least six men must I Down Freshmen Swamp Garnet Yearlings be E>nter·ed and competp in m·- . . der tu be> awarded thP 40 en- The Frosh football team ~uffered unwn ~ fr·eshman eto'~ c·ounu·y t r·ance poi'nt.\. another· st>tback Satun.!a, .. lo~in' tt•am HuffPrPd a nushing l[pfpnt ), . . g Saturc.lay afternoon, as ten nwm- McMitcheli Breaks Hawkes Record For Union Course 2. Winners of the Varsity U and to \': heavy squall frfJm :1-fontsvJlll' j bet·s of. th<' Nott Tena<'e Hi<>h aUa traclt award and membe1·s Agrrculture School by a H-.o scor<'. Sc·hool varsity swept across the The Agga•s p1·esented a tnclty of- . . , . of the varsity and freshman fenEe, bas('d on r·evel·ses and off- lm~ a.head ~~ (,onion Jacobs. hr~t footbal.J and Closs co11ntry t·aclde . Jla ·s which the ·earl·in, Unwn ycarhng to n·o:s, lh<' !me. team~ are ineligi·ble to compete. 1 > ' ~ g G. Rocco, N\whonsP Dl'·l' o-r·e>t, an<l tlcfensp could not seem to solve'. HartlPy brokP thl' tap\ simultan- £,,ttering \'he rec01 d set by Capt. Bill Hawks of Union in 1939 by 3. No man can compete in more than thl'f.'e evPnt-\ exclusive of the relay. Hl seconds, Le,;lie McMitchell, star harr·ier of New York University,· 4 · set a new 1ecor·d of 25 minut<:>s and ~o man can compete in mor·e than two running m· two field event,;. The relay will not count as an <:'vent in this rule. 59 seconds on the UPion College 4.7 mile cr·oss coun trv trail Sat- urday. Captain Paul· Santoro of Union cross the linP. thirty-five l'e<'- cnds later to taJ;:, second honors for the Garnet runnets who went down to defeat, 19 to 3u. 5. Additional points :oha\1 be awarded in the foHowing man- ner: If \.he winning team scon•s 30 points. then the 60 additional points are divided by 30 giv- ing two points to each team for each point scored. If the win- ncr scores 20 points, each point scored will count as three. \l'nion r·eceived to op<>n the game eously for T<·nacP with a tim<' of but made little progress through 14 minutL·\· 32 s<·C'ond\ <111 thP 2.3 a heavy line and had \o kick. A mile com se. few minutes later the al<'l't Frosh 1·ecovered an Aggie fumble, but failed to capitalize on thP oppor- tunity. Morrisville then procrceded 'ThP Jir,;t four Union men tD cro~~ thl' line WNt': Ja<'ob~. lfi:!!!!; Don- I Continu£>J on Pag!' ·11 to dominate the play fat· the rest --- ·--- ·- - -·~-·- of the half, scoring in the SC'cond pel\icd on a fifteen ya1·d pas..o.; from Tobin to Busher. Tobin place kick- ed thP extra poi·nt. The Frosh took to thf' ail' early in the thi·rd period, penl'trating deep into MonisvHle territory. However, the attack was repulsed. and a few minutes later the farm ,Just around the !'Ol'll<'r on Eastern A \'n ue Quality !ce Ct•Pam Light Lunches OPEN TiLl. MID:-I!GHT Corbin Dixon. N. Y. U., covered the com\e in 26 minutes, 59 sec- onds to tal{e third place. while Hulse and D'Anna of N. Y. U. tied for fourth. Other 1 unners wet·e: Lewendon, ~'· Y. U .. 28:05; Mele- wicz, Union, Johnson, Union, 28:25; I McNutt, N. Y. U., 28:52; Conly, Union, 29:01; Hanretta. N. Y. U .. 29:04; Collins, Union, 29:05; Maines, Union, 20:51; Pearson, Union. 6. The meet will bP held on Wed- boy~ drove again into Union ter- nesday, October 18 and 25 at 4 ritory and scored on a reverst' fr·om Saturday's defeat was Union·;; fifth COHSt'culive at the hands of N. Y. U. since 1928. Five previous consecutive wins tic- the 17-year-old seties at five wins and five losses fot· each collegP. The New Y ark team was com- posed of a group of seasoned vet- elans except for McMitehC'll who is a Eophomm e. At one timE' he was the scholastic cross country cham- pion and is rated one of the best distance runners in the east. Last year he won the int<:'rcollegiate fte:Jhman Cl'OSS country meet. In its first meet ~f the year N. Y. U. beat Colgate by a perfect SCDI'e, 15-40, with McMitchell lead- ing his teammates to the wire. Union dtopped its opening meet to Vermont by a score of 22-33. The summar·y: Name Team :\1cMitchell NYU SantJro U Dixon NYU Hulse NYU IJ'Anna NYU Lowt'ndon NYU Melewicz U Johnson U McNutt NYU Conly U HanrettJ. NYU Ccllins U Maines U Pearson U Time 25:59 26:34 26:49 27:42 27:42 28:05 28:251 28:25 28:521 29:011 29:0·1 29:05 29:57 lOI!.IIS WASSERMAN Ql!IAI.HTY MeAT MARK:ET 354 B'way Ph. 4-3364, 4-3365 I for DeLuxe Coaches CALL G. A. WELCOME &SON 1711 UNBON ST. P~one 4·9444 p.m. 7. The events on Oct. 18 Will be the 22@ ya1·d dash, 120 yard low hurdlE-s, Shot Put and Broad Jump. 8. The <>vents on Oct. be the 100 yard dash . relay, Javelin Throw High Jump. 25 will 880 yard and the' 9. Points will he awarded on a 5-4-3-!Z-1 for first, second, thir.d, fourth and fifth places. 10. Entries will be accepted on the field. . - --o~-- INTRAMURAL$ Fall Tennis The first round of the fall tennis tomnament must be finished today. The secane round matches must be i completed after five playing days. No postponements will be allowed. Football Field Meet The football fi8ld meet will take place Thursday, October 26, and Fiiday. October 27, at 1:00 p. m. P.. full program will be run oft on both days. The ELITE TAILOR 516 UNION ST. • TUXEDOS FOR RENT Euperf TaiJoring TRY BOWLING FOR WHAT AILS YOU THE MEETING PLACE OF UNION MEN 16 Alleys Billiards TABERSKI'S Next f@ Mohawk Hotel GUERRA PHARMACY \Ve deliver sandwiches and dt·ugs till 11 p. m. PHONE 6-9419 600 UNION ST. COI·. BARRETT Dr1.ilgs, Prescrip.;.ions, Sundrie5 SANDWICHES awd LIGHT LUNCH~S CLOVERLAND CREAMERY f=oi' P1·omp1 Service MILK- BUTTER- EGGS - CHEESE ICE CREAM IP!~one 6·f:H04 919 State St. Watch and Jewelry Repairing Engraving JAY JEWELRY CO. COR. STATE and CENTER STS. 'blue' COAL • !FUEL OIL • SEEDS • FERTILIZERS HIRAM Jo McKAiN COMPANY 306·314 Union St. Phoite 4·4448 the twenty-one yard line. The con- version was again successful. The home team kept on trying. but were un3.blP to cope with the weight advantage of the visitors . The Frosh were considerably hampered by the absence of Cen- ter Walt Hochuli and climax-run- nel' Don Quigley, who were both out because of the Beta frater·nity qua1 an tine. However. Frank Jones and Frank England who took trei•· places turned in creditable gan'%. PHONE 4-5614 Everything Electrical JASe F. BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. Sch'dy, N.Y. -~-----------·--·- -- Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market OUR M 0 T T 0 \Quality - Service Satisfaction\ 598 Broadway For Better Values \Call Ball and Ball Will Call\ Unquestionably Favored! ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BELLEVUE DAIRY PHONE 4-2553 PEOPLE'S FOOD MARKET FINE FOOD and GROCERIES 1291 Rugby Rd. \What's new, we show\ Famous Make SHIRTS $1.55 Values $1.09 Hand Tailored TIES 65c Values 44c SNAPPY MEN'S SHOP 179 JAY ST. PH 0 N E 6-3456 Schenectady Engraving Co .. 147 JAY STREET ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORDIENSIS Gazette Press Printers

Page Four Strain Is Ph. D. From Rochester Physics Instructor Cites Tension Of Graduate Work By GRANGI<;R TRIPI' Charle:> V. Strain. starting his fi.rst year of teaching as Instruc- tor· in Union's Physics Depal'tmenl, received hi:> Bachelor of Arts dc- grcP from De Pauw Univer\ity in 1932, and tht' degree of Doctor of Philosophy from Rocht'stet· in 1938, he reported ye:>terday in his \Concordit>nsi:>\ interview. \Tht' interval between the• two was lengthened a little by the depres- >ion.\ he remarked. TUESDAY QUARTERBACK by Fry Day A few of the l'own,;folk, who at·e not wd'l a:c<JUaintcd with the men on the foot.ball squad, are willing to swear that thosP fpl'lows in th(' garnPt uniforms who swamped Middlebury just aren't tl1e :>ame men who litwd up against Tt inity last week. * * * Coaeh l'iitchman was just one big· smile a,; he congratulated his men in the locltPl' room after the batt!<>. * * Thitty-three Union players saw action Sattutiay. If it weren't for thP quarantinE' on the BPta hou~P. that numbet· could have bPen jark- Pd to thirly+ix. * * * Tht• llll'll at Ht'ta Thc•ta Pi, in- cidentally, sPnt a tPlegtam to tlw \Pam bpfct P the ganlP saying t hn t t'hPy Wf.'n\l ~llll'Y thPy COUldn't :'PP Union win Satuxday. The•y proved to bl' t'X<\t'ilPnt \pi<-kPr<\. * * Ft·t 1 d Pntr it>, '\Vho :<<'<JO}H.'d a THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1939 IN THE MAIL T<l the Editor of \Tlw Con- <~ot·diPtHds\: Being a good hl)artPU guy \\-a:: down decop, I n•ally t•njoy !;('t•ing thP noor little urchins of :3chen,·c· ' tady- having an aftC't noon ,,f goud clean fun at timC's. But when it interferE's with my enjoy-in.!; :.Jniu\ College football games, I dt a v: the line. Why, oh, why, does Mr. \Vnt- nH, who 1 ea.lly is a VC'''Y intelli- gent man and who runs nlr •• ust all : phases of his departmcn~ tlaw-! lessly. allow those ragged littll' in-; sects to scuny over the fi<'!d I 1 l \ before the game. 1 2> b<'t WP<'n 1 he 1 halfs, and t3> whcn<'VC't· 'l~e th<·y I can sneak on? I 'fh rl'~' Professors 1'o Speak ai Jlt'e.tin~· Tht P<' mc•mi.J<'l'~ oi the Union Cullegt• faculty wtll take part in tht> program of the Ameri- can \Velding Society Conwntion at Chicago, October 23-26. Dr. Frank J. Studer will de- liver a paper on \Contact Re- si:>tanc<' in Spot W!.'lding.\ Pto- fcssor RobPt't L. Stanlc~·. who is cu-author with Profe:>sor· Jo- seph Marin of the Armour In- stitute of ·:::-eclm0logy of a pa- per· on \Fa.Utne of Aluminum Subjected to Combilwd Stress.\ will discu~:< this paper at the COllVPntion. ProfPssor· Mortimer F. Sayt e will prcsidP at a rountltablc dis- cussion on \Tests for Weldabil- ity\ under the sponsorship of the Industrial Wt>lding Research Divi;;ion. He• will also act as chairman at a m£'eting of the Conlmittl~Q tHl ~Handa! d Tests fot· \\' l' ld~. The whole :>ituation i~ 1 idiculous. 1 It could be c!Paned Ui> wrlil a ' minimum of effort 8ind ing••nuily , All the athletic depattmcnt \V<,uld I have to do is appoint a gr·nup of students .perhap:> the usll.'n c-ould sl:'l'\'(l as maz Hhals \'vho~e 11:u.in purpo~e· would be to c!t·in th·• lidlP urchins off the tield. Aftl'L <llh' nuH·t• attempt to ta!H~ over thL' -'ndiron on Alexander Field. the Jit,~·· '\'\s will know that if lhPy dun't h~- Hurd Reveals Figures have them«elvf.'s, Uncle Hatolu will scP that they can't evl'n .-.;neal' intu, Since the publication of its arti- the games for gratis any more. 1 cl~ on placement of <enion; la:>t Anyway, our games w:l! s:a 1 t t.o! Wel'k .. it ha~. be:n bxou.gl·l~ t?_}h~ tooli like collegiate contP~t~ in- :attentiOn of The Concox dH nsts b;y ,\Pad of sandlot, bat tiPs if til•• l'hil- 'Pt ofes>'OI' Chari<'\ D. Hurd of the d-ren were kPpl to tiL\ ,i,!t•. · Depat·tment of Chemioll y that ?f puntl•d ball up that had been half tlownP<l bv a Mtdd!Pblll \' man nnd dashPd f(;r about forty· yarll:>. all- mittPd aflt'l' tlw ~anw that NPls hatl taught lum t.hat tl'ick in his frpshman year and thaI he had to _ wait until ht> wa,; a senior to find r • the ten men ·who graduated 111 Yours. ' ttw Baehelor of SeiPnce in Chem- [ral\ !•'t·t'silll<' 111 ·' istty division hL't ye:u·, but thr~c ' arc unpmployed. if \l\1i<illlt>bULg\ had' Three of the graduates are em- 1 played in romme•rcial business, Nott Terrace Runners Defeat Freshmen 1 Continued from Page 3) alti Klinkow. 15:28; Jame:o Purdy, 15:35. and Charles SneH, 15:43. Satur day':> meet was the first of the fall season for the freshman harriers who have been greatly handicapped by schedule conflicts re:>ulting in lack of practice. On the 28th of October the Garnet yearlings will meet the R. P. I. cross country team in Schenec- tady which will be run during tbe Ft cshman and Varsity football ganws also with R. P. I. The sum- mary: Name Team Time Newhouse NT 14:32 Ticcco, GG. NT 14:32 DeForest NT 14:32 Hartley NT 14:32 Brown NT 14:43.5 De Persis NT 14:43.6 Ll'Wis NT 14:58 Cooke NT 15:02 :\1astroianni NT 15:04 Rocco. l'i. NT 15:14 Jacobs u 15:22 Klinkow u 15:28 Purdy u 15:35 l,izzo u 15:43 Snell u 15:43 ------- Philomathean Club Holds First Meeting The PhiiOJ:uathean Society will t no intercollegiate debates accep · · d . under the old style of ebatmg. Marvin Lazarus, '40. mana~er of the group announced l~t mght at the first regular meetmg of the current academic year. .Ml ~he de- bating dates wi.Jl be set thrs year so that only the new style, round- table debating system wiH be use~. The meeting, which was held m Bailey HaH. served the dual pur- pose of acquai·nting new members, drawn chiefly from the Class of 1943 with last year's men, and of expl~ining in detail the ro.undta?le system of debating. J;- drscl:ls.sro~ of \Presidential Th1rd Terms served to introduce this new style. Faculty advisor, Dr. Douglas W. Cambell, was introduced and made a few brief remarks. ·O---- NEW CHEERS All stl:ldents who about new cheers are call the cheerleaders possible. have ideas requested to as soon as JOE'S BARBER SHOP Opposite Post Office Featuring Haircuts for Union Men Ext·elle•tlt Barbl'rH E;wdleut \\'or!< Explaining that hP spent the year 1938-1939 working as a re- .<eart:'h &\sbtant at Rochc>stcr. Dr. St 1 a in tux n<·d to a discu,;sion of t.h<: valuP of graduatt> work to a collpge's Physics dPpartment. \It Hl'Pms to me.'' he said, \that in schools where thl'l'l' i:> a large grad- uate dPpartmPnt. too much empha- sis is apt to be placed on the re- s!.'arch carried on. at thP cxpensl' of thP undHgratiuatP. Of coUl'Sl'. in such poi!Pgt.'s. you may lind many 'big names' on the faculty. but laboratory instruction, for ex- amp!P, i:> often eanied on by graduatE' student_,; instead of full time in~t ructot s. Anti bl'iiPvP me, a graduate ~tudPnt is a pt·,•tty busy person. \I wouldn't :<av that I havl' any particular hobby> Dr. Strain said. ''but during tht.'se past few ypars I have been getting- a lot of en- joymPnt out of driving m·ound the various bl'auty sposl of NPw Yorli. The hills here are quite a contrast to GrPen Castle. Ind .. which is my home town. incidentally.\ an oppot·tunity to usc it. Tlw eatch SPtiousne•ss wa..; that tllP play WH>' Pal!l'tl back anivPd, * \' * ! while the t emaining four have po- 1 bt>C'Hll!'P of an off~idt:a.. . From ~·hP prl· .... ~ 1 boA. it luul{t•d a\' :::itiont' as graduatP a~-=\'i~tants or I if Captam John Stabxle, AI Ptofy, \tudent at Penn State. R P. I.. Johnny Mahoney and Jack John- and Union. DALEY'S AU the Latest Records Dr·. Strain has bl'Pll te•achin.g Ph.~nlentat·y physie~ coUl'Sf'.t' :stnce his at·rival at Cnion. RPporting that he finds his work as an in- stt uctor very interesting, hE' added. \GraduatE> work at RochPsler was a very h<'avy ~train. So much is expected of a graduate st Ud<'nt that he is constantly undPr IPn- sion. \I'm lilie thP otlwr nwn you'vt> intervi<'Wed,\ h<• concluded, \in that I hawn't bHn at Union long enough to report on thP students attitudP. So far. though, what I'v<' ><Pen would !Pad me to r!.'port vE>ry favorably on my stUdC'nts.\ 0 Sophomore Dance Policies Announced After a poll of the sophomore cla;s hPld during Daily Aoscmbly Friday. SP\'Pral of the ,;ophomore dancP committep's policies towat·ds thl'it· winter dance wPre announced. The class approved of holding lh<' affair on the evening of DPc<•m- bPt 2. and agreed that thl' dance \hould bP an informal one. The pnce of one dollar was also ap- proved. Two hundred twenty-nine men wet e polled. CommittP<>s to handiP tickets. dE>coration,; and PntPrtainment will bP chosen next wl'ek. SUITS Cleaned-Pressed TWO SUITS Cleaned and Pressed s~~: 93c Call for and Deliver \For Students Who Care\ • 12 Elm St. Phone 3-1775 Products for Better Qual:ty FRO-JOY and JERSEY ICE CREAM Cream - Crest Milk Cream and Dairy Products PHONE 4-3121 at Cassedy's . .. Featuring Pt·pxy wPndPd his wav into the toe kPr 'rooms aftPt' the f; a\' and, 1 n a ~etting of ~catt('I ed l)Zluipn1ent and gt inH', \\-'a~ seen .shaking hand:..; and congratulating all tlw player·s. ~on madt> up the £'nlirr Middl!.'bmy __ team and that the other sPven men: i':\\=============~~ W<'I'P merely interPstetl bystandPt·s. i GOOD FOOD AND DRINKS • * * I • • The Vermont tl'am had twc · Dmin:: thP pte-ganw tally Fti- day night. Lin<> Coach Al Ciampa mad .. t h\ fitst pub lit- atidn•ss of his cal'PPI' LatPr Ill' had what ap- pean·d to be thl' tinw of his life watching I hP 1 ootPt·s sit down in State HtlN't and cheer thc>ir· team. • \Vhl'n lhP mlly ddfted in ftont group,.; ot playE>ts with similar lad 1 namP~ nanwly, Jack and LPt' .J ohn:-on and John and Da dd Fitz- gPrald. Bellevue Quality Bakery 2625 B'way Phone 4-6248 BREAD - ROLLS - J>ASTRY of the Hotel Van Curlt>r and chccr- Pd for the l\1iddlebury team, a \townie\ ;idled up to Coach Nitch- nlan, \Vho \.Vas \Vatching ft on1 an oppo,;ite conll't', and asked in a.! i '-----------------! RE make·IIP expert P FRC WF.STMO ''t takes the rigltt • B. says z 1 {no· U'arller I os. line m•d con tallY . o rnnobinati011 of coltorj.-awres of all staos [Jrin ~ out tile be> . . 111 glamorous C fum WI He!·e you se N ~NN sHERlDA.. . tl starrmg 111 who is curretl YH 1HEIR fA{.F.S'' G ELS WAS 'TilE AN ' . picture a Wamer Roos Interested in Schenectady Interested in UNION MAURBCE B. GRAUBART 166 Jay St. Watch and Jewelry Repairing a Specialty PARKER and WATERMAN PENS BOOTH and COUNTER SERVICE 414 STATE ST. VICTOR BLUEBIRD COLUMBIA - DECCA VOCALION Victrolas - Sheet Music Musical Merchandise CASSEDY PIA.NO GO'm 460 State St. Near Proctor's ' s RIGHT COMBINATION of the world's best ciga.rette tobaccos brings out the best features of each An the fine American and Turkish tobaccos in Chesterfield's famous blend are known for some particular smoking quality. ~ and the way Chesterfield com- bines these fine tobaccos is why you get a milder, better-tasting smoke with a more pleasing aroma~ That is why, when you try them we believe you 'It say . .. 7!er~h your pleasure ... lheHif{hf Om/Jlnalion of the world's best cigarette tobaccos Copyright 1939, LIGGETr & MnRs ToMcco Co, i I i f •·. - ·- L Z-51 . Vol. l - Rae T I 0 On Sl D f, ThE \audi sched Radi< day the l full : Jot ager pany tions cepte Miltc ager toda: at tl dent broa instr ing to b of t: this for AJ beer feat pus, pre: cast Am 130 the neVI 40! wh< the tior pro aft, 'I di8 Col ber thE It pr( a J thE SOl at lo' we pl: st1 th to w pr cc ly Iii ti: ia Cl a1 v· j j

f I = ·ill ;es 1g\. of at .he :le- ~ar ld- ed. in ur- n•s, of of ble ion as\ rle. w. lde eas to as l j rk s r's I \ IJNiLiN Du~re HJre L:=6~=·jg=ht====±: :1 Z-51 1 COLLEGE L I'·') A •IJIIMf)Y • March 'Beginning 40th Year Vol. LXIII., No. 10 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1939 PRICE FIVE CENTS Radio· Workshop To Hold Auditions On Wednesday Sheehan Reappointed Director; Plan New Features for This Year Lewis Describes War Preparations· At St. Andrews Editors' Ncte: This is thl\ third in the series of \Annals of St. Andrews\ colunms by John ·P. Lewis, '!11, Union's present exchange student at St. An- dmws Univei,sity ·in Scotland. The first of a series of regular In the fortnight interval since \audition meetings\ has been ·the last writing, our chief concern scheduled by the Union College has been to arrive at a certainty Radio Workshop for next Wedne.o- that the above address shall be day night in :Silliman Hal.J when ours for some months to come. tbe 1939-40 program will get into After having weathered a consid- full swing. erable onslaught from the West, 289 Upperclassmen Pay All College Expenses Just one less than hall' the 579 upperclassmen of Union CoHege receive no help from any source toward thei·r coliege expenses, an analysis of college statistics has disclosed. Of these, 289 in number, 78 are assisted by the fact that they live at home. The remaining 290 sopho\ mores,. juniors and seniors re- . ceive he'lp either from .Joans, scholarships, the Nat i·o n a I Youth Administration or stu- dent employment. A \break-down\ of the figures reveals that 67 of the 165 sen- iors pay all their expenses. 20 of these 67 live at home. 65 of the 160 juniors who board at college pay all thei-r expenses, while 22 more who ! e- ceive no help live at home. From the 232 sophomores, 135 recerv~ no help, including 36 who live at home. John Sheehan, '25, program man- we can now safely report that it ager for the General Electl'ic Com- will, and are the moment await- parry's international broadcast sta- ing the university's actual opening tions WGEA and WGEO, has ac- · wi~h considerable impatience. Our cepted reappointment as director pt emature hastening from Geneva MiHon M. Enzer, '29, graduate ma11· to Scotland in order to reach a de- ager of the workshop, announced cision upon this question of stay- today. Mr. Sheehan will be present ing or not, of necessity produced at the frst audition when all stu- some interesting going. Hastening, dents interested in any phase of incidentally, is a wishful word- broadcasting--announcing, singing, one doesn't hasten these days from instrumental playing, script writ- Switzerland to England unless he ing radio direction and are asked takes the Orient Express-and one to be present so that a catalogue doesn't take the Orient Express of talent may be drawn up. From unless he has $32 for which he this panel will be selected material holds no attachment whatsoever. for future broadcasts. Our more modest journey from State Start :Empire Meetings Geneva to Paris consumed 21 Already the Radio Workshop has hours, entailed four changes, and been conducting a weekly radio feature entitled \From the Cam-, included stops at every Rotterdam Junction along the way. Conne.:- pus,\ in which PauJ. Mahoney, ' 40 · t!ons between Paris and London, president of the Workshop, broad- and London and the north, how- casts ·educational developments in ever, were considerably better·. American colleges. From a list of 130 colleges invited to cooperate, Pal'is Pl'epared the Workshop receives weekly The most lasting impression news bulletins from approximately which the journey produced was 40 and these are edited ·by Mahoney that of the marvelously thorough who selects such news as reflects preparations for passive defense the educational side of the institu- which characterize the present tions. Mr. Sheehan introduces the conflict. Ever since we were greet- program on the air each Thursday ed at the Swiss-French border by afternoon at 3:45. the first railroad station with The series of monthly broadcasts. every window painted blue and dramatizing some phase of Union taped to avoid flying glass when it College will .be resumed on Novem- may be shattered, we have !Jecn ber 13 and continued thereafter on aware of the spirit of intelligent the second Monday of each month. watchful - waiting which prevail~ It is planned this year to start the among the citizenry. program with a ten minute talk by The first night or blackout was a faculty member who will present an eerie affair with moonlight the qualifications necessary for streaming through mist on and some profession, the training given on across an apparently Fren-=h at Union. The Workshop will fol- countryside. Each compartment of low with a dramatization of this the train possessed one small blue bulb emitting a ghostly flicker. work on the campus. The Radio Workshop is making Paris is a city of sandbags. All the plans to record the auditions of better statuary at the front of students and build up a library of the Opera House has been buned this \talent\ and use the recordings in them; even sculpture high on to arrange programs with WGY,· the side of the Arc de Triomphe WGEA or WGEO. Professional was being respectfully swathed; and when we managed to slip into program managers prefer a re- corded audition for that most close- the Hotel des Invalides after clos- ly approximates what the radio ing hours and travers:<>d some listener receives, and saves much scaffolding in the Napoleonic time for them in selecting mater- shrine to peer down into the tomb ial, Mahoney pointed out. of the Emperor, we beheld only The Radio Workshop meeting is a most prosaic pile of cloth and called for 7:30 next Wednesday, soil. and all interested students are in- The channel service fr·om Bou-. vited to be present. <Continued on Page 2) Plan to Discuss Contemporary Topics Of General Interest President Dixon ltyan Fox has announced that the Empire State Town Meetings of the Air which were conducted on the Union Col- lege campus last year will be re- sumed on Sunday, Novemb~r 5. As yet the program is no~ com- plete but the plans are to have two authorities of different point::; of view discuss some tovc of gen- eral i n t e r e s t .to r e s i de n t s of New York State. Some subjects which have been suggest- ed and are now under con~idera­ tion are: \Why Should the Public Pay for Improved Housing?\; \Should There Be a Restoration of Full State Aid to Teachers?\; \Should There Be a Lowering of Income Tax Exemptions?\; \Does the American Citizen Vote Intelli- gently?\; \Are Chain Stores a l:3lessing or G\, Curse?\ and \Is Ad- vertising an Essential Factor in Modern Living?\ The Empire T'own Meeting wrll be held under the joint auspices of Union College and the Schenec- tady Forum Service. W. Howard Pillsbury, administrator of the Schenectady Forum, and Milton M. Enzer are in char·ge of the ar- rangements for the series of meet- ings. This year the meetings will be held from 3:15p.m. to 4:00p.m. They will be broadcast over WGY from 3:15 to 3:45. Discusses Changing Professor March During His Forty Conditions Union College Year Stay at By GRANGER TRIPP, '43 ---------------------~--------~---- Beginning his fortieth year at Union College, Dr. John Lewis March, A.M, Ph.D., head of the field of psychology at Union, finds that very little change in the aver- age student has taken place during his period of service. Recalling highlights of hie career for the \Concordiensis\ yesterday, Mr. March said, \Union has always had good students, as long as I have been h\ne.\ In 1899, the year Dr. March be- gan his Union career, Union had 100 students and tht ee fraternity houses he recalled. Schenectady wa~ in the last stages of a pe!'iod of rapid growth, which continued after Dr. March's arrival \Activities wet•e very similar to what they are now\ Dr. March continued. \although such things as snake dapces and parades on the football field did not come until much later. · I remember that the · fir·st time Union men saw arty such thing as that they were stupefied I think it wa13 Hamilton wh1il first fore they were doing the same swarmed on to the field to mar·ch thing themselves.\ between 'hal'Vi'ls of a football game. · \In those days there was more The Union men didn't quite· know hazing of freshmen,\ Dr. March what to do,. but it wasn't long 'be- said, \but I don't think they really minded it so much -it was all done in a spirit of good fun. The fresh- men and sophommes UEed to have their battles on the college pasture in those days.\ \The Idol was acquired by Pres- ident Potter in the eighties. It wns carved of solid stone in China and was intended to be a gate post on someone's driveway, presumably to keep away evil spirits. President Potter put it in his back yard and one night some of the undergrad- uates painted it-the first of a series of paintings which have taken place many times each year for nearly sixty years now. When President Potter saw his Idol after that he is supposed to have said 'Oh, my god!' For a long while after that the Idol was known as 'Potter's god'.\ . \When I first came to Union .. only Washburn Hall had' central heating. North and South <!6Heges, in those days, had a stove in each room. When lhe students of South College· got up in the morning they would run across the courtyard .be- hind the building in their sleeping gowns to wash in what is ·now the garage building. The present li- .( Continued on Page 4) Ma:rce·l Dupre, Famous French Organi.st, WiU Give Third Conce.rt 1n Me.moria;l Chapel Tonight ---------------------------0 Concert Artists on Campus Tonight Wi·U Improvise Compositions on Submitted Themes Marcel Dupi'e, popularly ac- knowledged as the world's greatest organist, will present a recital in the Memorial Chapel tonight un- der the auspices of the Glee Club. An added feature will be the ac- companiment on the piano in two compositions by his distinguished daughter, Marguerite. Evidence of the widesp~ead in- terest in this musical treat, de- clared Dr. Elmer· A. Tidmarsh, di- rector of music and former pupil of Dupre, is the large number of organists from the northern part of New York who will attend, as well as parties from nearby col- . leges. Skidmore College leads the 1{!.tter with a group of forty girls Who will come by special bus to 'hear Dupre. Program to Be Broadcast The Schenectady branch of the Alliance Francaise is giving a din- ner in honor of Mr. Dupre and his daughter at the Hotel Van Curler Marcel Dupre and his daughter, Marguerite, who will be the guests of Union Glee Club tonight. before the concert tonight. The program tonight will also be broadcast i n t e r n a t i o n a 11 y through the facilities of the Gen- eral Electric stations, WGEA and WGEO. This afternoon a group of three numbers was broadcast by WGY from 1:30 to 1:45 as Mr. Dupre practiced' on the college or- gan. Dr. Tidmarsh introduced Mr. Dupre to the radio audience. Fortnightly Group Has First Meeting History of American Neutrality Topic Of Student Speakers The Fortnightly Institute held the first of its discussion meetings in Silliman Hall on Wednesday evening, discussing the question of American neutrality before a group of students and faculty. The in- formal part of the program was devoted to a discussion of the probable result of American at- tempts to remain. neutral and also the part students and faculty of American colleges might play in preventing mob hysteria from p~e­ cipitating our entrance into the present European conflict. As a preface to the students' re- marks, Dr. Vernon A. O'Rourke outlined the general historical background of American neutrality and its relation to our policy of iso- lation from the beginning of the nation's history to our entrance into the World War. Thomas Ral- ston then discussed the factors in- fluencing the change in United States neutrality during the World War, resulting into our eventual entrance into the conflict. His opinion was that the sinking of merchant vessels with the conse- quent loss of the lives of United States citizens was the necessary impetus to crystallize action on the anti-German feeling which existed in this country. Marvin Lazarus followed Ralston with a presentation of the neutral- ity acts of 1935, 1936, and 1937- placing stress on the arms embar- go as opposed to the cash-and-carry system. The discussion was brought up to date by Harry Sillick, who advanced the conflicting desires in the present question of change of the ne1.1trality status being consid- er·ed by Congress in extraordinary session. ----o---- Dr. Tidmarsh to Present Organ Recital on Sundav Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh will pre- :en t his regular organ recital this ::lundsy afternoon at four o'clock. fhe program will consist entirely :Jf the works of Mendelssohn. Dr. Tidmat>h will again be assisted by Dr. Charles Gilbert Spross who ;viii accompany him on the piano. I. ~onata Number Six. II. Con<1t>ri,o in G Minor for piano and organ. Dr. Tid- mars and Dr. Spross. III Noctume from \Midsum- mer Night's Dream\ Spring Song, IV. Cappriccio Br·illiante for piano and organ. Dr. Tid- marsh and Dr. Spross. Prexy and Hou-ton Tred Boards Together The scheduled performances of Edward Everett Horton, stage and screen actor, in \Springtime for Henry\ in Al- bany on Monday and Tuesday, are linked closely to Union Col- lege. In the first place, the noted comedian was in Columbia Uni- versity together with President Dixon Ryan Fox, and both acted together in Columbia's fa- mous ''Varsity Shows.\ Miriam Doyle, the director of Mr. Horton in Benn W. Levy's famous comedy, was guest di- rector of the Mountebanks Theatre at Union College in 1937 and will stage \Journey's End\ for the college theatre on November 17, 18 and 20. She is vice-president and leading direc- tor for Laurence Rivers, Inc .. \Laurence Rivers\ is the pseud- onym of Rowland Stebbins, Union, '04, who was awarded an honorary degree by his Alma Mater several years ago for his \distinguished contribution to the American theatre.\ He pro- duced \The Green Pastures\ one of his successes. Chemical Society Holds Meeting The Eastern New York Section of the American Chemical Society held its 212 meeting last night in the Butterfield Chemistry Labora- tory. The meeting was addressed by Paul H. Groggins, senior chem- ist of the Industrial Farm Prod- uct~ Research Division of the Un.ted States DcpartmPnt of Agri- cultur·e, who spoke on \Highlights of Recent Organic Synthesis.\ Preceeding the meeting, an in- formal dinner was held in Hale House. Two faculty members of the Union College chemistry staff have been elected to offices in the so- ciety. Dr. Egbert K. Bacon has been elected secretary - treasurer, and Dr·. Charles B. Hurd has been e !ected as one of the couci!lors for the year 1939-40. Dr. Groggins s.poke in daily as- sembly on Thur.sday morning at which time he pointed out that American industry is realizing a return of five dollars for every dol- lar invested in research work. In the field of agriculture •he said the return from research is as high as five hun.dred percent on the orig- inal investment. Mr. Dupre will open his program with Bach's stirring \Toccata and Fugue in D Minor.\ Together with his daughter, Marguerite, at the piano, he will then play \Sinfonia from Cantata No. 146.\ Mr. Dupre will play next Schumann's \Canon in B Minor,\ and Mendelssohn's \Prelude in B flat.\ Cesar Franck's \Symphonic Var- iations\ will be the other compo- sition which the famous father and daughter will play together to- night. Will Play Own Work Mr. Dupre will include two of his own compositions in his next group which include Charles Marie Widor's \Allegro from the Sixth Symphony,\ Lynnwood Farnam's \Toccata.\ Mr. Dupre's own com- positions will be \Berceuse and Filieuse\ and \Variations on an Old Noel.\ Mr. Dupre's own works represent the latest advance in organ composition combining the brilliance and color of the mod- ern French school with the tradi- tional forms of classic literature. But perhaps of keenest interest to the musical fraternity in this area will be his last group of improvisations on submitted themes, Dr. Tidmarsh has receiv- ed various melodic themes from musicians who will be present to hear Mr. Dupre improvise on them. Ever since his first American tour -this is his seventh and his third that includes Union College-he has astounded musical critics with his ability to improvise. The New York Times critic summed up his evaluation by writing, \improvisa- tions such as Dupre's are rarely heard from any musician.\ TiekPts on SaiP at Door Union College students are among those who have submitted themes. Leonard Bull, '40, manager ·Of the Glee Club, announced that since the audience will be seated in the order of arrival rather than in reserved seats, the chapel will be opened at 7:30, an hour before the recital, to permit the early comers opportunity to get the best seats. Proceeds of tonight's concert will be used toward the purchase of a new piano for the Memorial Chapel which is regularly used by the Schubert Club, Thursday Musical Club, and Troy Vocal Society, for concerts during the year .. Tickets for Union students are on sale at the special rate of $1.00 each at the college bookstore and also at the door at the time of the concert.

Page Two QJnutor THE CONCORD.IENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1939 ON SCR·EEN CA:LENDARi Today 8 : 30 p. m. _ Marc~! Dupre, · French organ virtiuoso and ' STATE composer, presenteg by the . I ~robably be more than willing to aid in mak-; Lewis De. s. cri be. s Ill mg the necessary arrangements. 1 When and if the proposal receives the War Prenarations -~--~-:::-\'--~-· FouNDED 1877 sanction of the Student Council and the as- :1:' l Continued from Page 1) sistance of the Interfraternity Council, the question of time must be settled. Seven1.l !'actors must be taken into account before the date is chosen. Conflicts with other col- lege functions must be avoided, and the logne to Folkstone is running reg- ularly enough but scarely under normal conditions. The vessels have been completely colored a dull gray, each passenger is tied snugly into his life preserver be- fore the boat quits the pier, and a tot turous zig-zag cout·se is main- tained constantly to throw off the calculations of the lads in the Ger- man U-boats. During our crossing one of the latter was reported in the distance by one of the watches, but it seems probable that he was just a bit over-anxious for adven- ture. The two chief virtues of What a Union College Glee Club. Me- · Life <vaughan Glaser (he's the. morial Chapel. T~c:kets $1.00- . P rin~ipall and Betty Field (·sh.e's • \:1 Causa Prrsa Parole Assai\ b ed $:1.50. the interest), have een earn Tomorrow Ove r from the cB.!lt of the Broadway · A bl l:O:OO a. m. - Daily ssem Y· )letnlttl' uf the ASS(Jciated· Coll~giale Pre~:>b and Ubtrihutor of tlw l~UllL-'giate lJige:H. Tne ·nftldal ll~W:-Pallt'l' uf the ::;ttHl'~Iltti of eniou l'u\leg\.'. PulJli~tll'tl TUL'Sllay awl ,r.~ridaY8 throu~h~ thH tnt' ('u!h J!;t~ ye:u·. play. With staunch support like Speaker, Mr. Edward Jerome, that, even Fteddy Bartholomew 1 C ould assume the mantle of the Memorial Chape · . lo:<lituriul Rooms, ~llllman Ha:ll, tJniun College L'arntnl~. 'I\~lt\phuue. ~:kh~ttectau~·. 4-013~. Ptrblil•u.tiun Office, 'I\he l~azt::tie Pre~s. 331 :::5tatt :::it., · \veek-end selected should be one on which at . least one major athletic contest is scheduled. t z:OO P· m.-Varsity Football-· mighty Henry Aldrich and g~ Union vs. Vermont at Ver- awav with it. As it is, Jaclne \ 1 d ·y mont. Cooper handles the roe. an vet Freshman Football-Union vs. effectively. Master Aldrich an~ his Middlebury at Middlebury .. SdlelLl'L'la<iL :\. Y., Telephune 4-HH \Entt\fed at the :::kh~,l.:•.:t .. .tdy l'ust Uffil'e a:::; ::5t>t'Otltl t'lass ~!ail :.'llaller. There can be little doubt that a football · game week-end would provide an ideal date. pica• esque adventures arc. highly Varsity Cross Country-UniOn entertaining, as most radto fans vs. Middlebury at Middlebury. Sul.n:;criptiun prtct: F'iVI.! L'cllt~ a ~..·op~·: $3.UU a year; delivered any\vlwre 1n the l\n1ted Statt-s. There is not, however, sufficient time in are aware. See him now before he gtow.s older. Sunday, October 22 Senior Board Lawrence V. Pellettier, Jr ....... Editor-in-Chief · \\'hich to make arrangements foi' such a date this fall, so we suggest that the event be The English blaclwut is even mote relentless than the FrE'nch . In France they think that they have left only a minimum of sub- dued light bet e and there on the railt oads and i.t a c1ty such as Pa!'is. The British have simply called a spade a spat!e and blacked out the minimum. London by night is an amazing sight if one were able to .see it. Every cafe windo,v and practically every street light has become just another spot in the .dat·kness, and even traffic lights have been reduced to lli~Y The companion featm·e, Dust Be 11:00 a. m. - s~u1day Chapel. My Destiny, has John Garfield sas~- Preacher, Rev. Wallace W. ing the Eumenides again. John 1s Anderson, D.D. State Street 24 N. S. South College-6-9728 Uobel't R. Eisner ............ Business Manager a good boy at heart, but a defeat- Congregational Church, Port- ist. you understand. \Fate's foot- land. Maine. Memorial Chapel. . scheduled for next spring. Kappa Nu House-4-7331 C. Russell Deyo ............... Managing Editor We are vigorously opposed to the sugges- tion that the week-end be held at the time of Foundet·'s Day. The academic pomp of this ball, that's me.\ says John. He gets This service will be broadcast a ninety-day sentence to the Rose- . over WGY. Chi Psi Lodge--4-6527 George Loadwick Peele .......... Sports Editor dale work farm <you know Rose- 4:00c5:00 p. m.-Organ Recital. dale \everybody's home town\) Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, Me- 838 Union St.-6-3548 · ceremony is not likely to be of any great in- . tel'est to the visiting fathers. There is also the consideration that our campus is at its bleakest during the month of February, and the inclemency of the \Veather would pre- clude all but indoor activities. Spring, we feel, offers infinitely greater advantages fol' an interesting program than does the pro- and meets Priscilla Lane. No mat- moria! Chapel. ter how dark things get from then Monday, October 23 Christopher M. Fahy .............. News Editor Delta Upsilon House-4-7922 on, you just lmow everything will 4:00-5:00 p. m.-BEng Rehearsal. turn out for the best . · · and Gymnasium. Edwin A. Fitz, Jr ................ Feature Editor 1254 Glenwood Blvd.-4-2867 damned if it doesn't!!! 5:00-6:00 p. m.-Public Speaking PROCTOR'S Class. Room 106, General En- Jaclt Rabinowitz .......... Circulation Manager Phi Sigma Delta House-6-0765 They Shall Have Music presents · gineering Building. to a palpitant public Mr. Jascha I~::;:::;:::;:::;:::;:::;:::;:::;:::;:=:::;:::;:=~ Heifetz, an actor who fingers a 1, REPRf.~eNTCO FOR NATIONAL ADVERT1SING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. Coll•g• Publishers Reprosentatwe 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N. y, CHICAGO • BOSTON • LOS AHGILIS • SAM FRANCISCO Junior Board posed February date. ted and green crosses. Headlights, of com se, emit only a four-foot glow in advance of autos, and yet traffic goes on with amazing speed and an ama.Zing lack of casualitics. IDEAL BARBER SHOP 448 State St. EXCELLENT BARBERS \Come in and Try Our Haircuts\ John Lewis Paul Becker James Twining Robert Schulberg John Phillips NOT MERELY SCHOLARSHIP The Concot·diensis has stressed, and will continue to stress the importance of good grades. None but a moron would deny that scholarship should be the paramount consid- eration of all students. London, if anything has been even more sandbagged than the French metropolis, and possesses an un- rivaled system of air-raid shel- ters. Certainly, however. the piecP de resistance of its defense is the tremendous flotilla of sausage bal- loons which dot the sl,y, supporting a veritable aerial fence agains, enemy attack. We remember read- ing several years ago of plans for this fantastic suspended wire net- work and concluding that it was quite impossible, and yet we cun vouch for its existence a week ago. mean fiddle. Gene Reynolds, An- drea Leeds. Joel McCrea and Wal- · ter Brennan fill in the story be- tween violin selections. - Torchy Plays with Dynamite replaces · Glenda Farrell with Jane Wyman, Barton MacLane with Allen Jen- kins. Torn Kennedy is still on duty, · though. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ STRAND i': Sophomore Board Alexander Arony, Armand Fiegenbaum. John Gtow, Samuel Portnoy. Jonathan Pearson, Solo- mon Blechman Business Staff Andy Kay, Justin Perl::5lt'ill, 8tdnley Greenste111, !>onald Haigh, La.<kar Selm,trtz, Arthur D:,.vb. ~[.. r\•11 :\1Jlls. Issue Editor .....................• John Phillips Assistants On the other hand, however, we feel that scholarship should not be the sole interest of any undergraduate. The primary function of -------------------·'1 a college is not to breed straight-A scholars, but is rather to develop mature, well-bal- Granger Tripp Thomas O'Connor Friday, October 20. 193~ \AND HOW IS 'JOHNNY' MARCH?\ anced men who will be able to adjust them- selves to the post-college world. This vmrld wil require more than a brilliant scholastic record ; it wil demand some evidence of the ability to fit into the scheme of things. That \And ho\v is 'Johnny' 1Iarch ?\ is the most scholarship alone does not provide this abil- common question asked of students and col- ity is attested by the many honor students lege officials by alumni. The football team. who have proved to be hopeless social mis- the condition of the college and student life d . t fits. are all relegated to seco~1 ary. Impor ance Campus activities, we believe. afford an when gt::tduate.s ~nee~. It IS LTmo~'::; \gTan.d ! excellent opportunity not only to contribute old man .who IS mevitably the topic of then· I to campus life, hut also to acquire the social conversatiOn. balance which is expected of college men in The college catalogue lists the course business and professional fields. We hold no taught by Union's senior faculty member as brief for the \Big Man on Campus\ school psychology. It is, however, a psychology of thought, but we do feel that every student taught nowhere but in Washburn Hall; a owes it to himself and to his alma mater to psychology delightfully tinctured with tales participate in one activity. St. Andrews Prepared Nothing is more remarkable than the compl0te preparedness of a place like St. And• ews whose chances of being bombed are not so much greater than those of Schenectady. The fact that it has been chosen a3 a 1 eceiver for evac- uated school children and for .,stu- dents from metropolitan universi- ties such as Landen. rates it as one of the safest spots in the island. and yet it is replete with air-mirl wardens, a very trick Eandbag en- trance to the postoffice, and as nice a blackout as you could w,sh to see. The univet sal fine for inft ingement of the no-light rule. .ncident2lly. is a cool five pound~. l'he univers;ty h:J.s ovet-night pt o- duced ~n admirable system of raid cellars, r·outes to them, light-prou! screening, etc. And of c. om se everyone has a ga~ mask. The English mask pro- vides a great deal more color than the Ft ench because, unlike the lat- ter, they come free but without a set viceable case. Thus the gas- masl{-container industry. or more :tccurately. racket, has sprung into a heat ty existence One finds every- thing from the individualist who stubbornly slicks to the original cardboatd container to the um- bi el:a-toting gentleman who sports a morocco leather case and strap. The 1 eally chic London female. we understand, now has a different case for her every ensemble. Tonight and tomorrow the Strand ptesent.s a pair of Limeys. The Re- turn of the Frog and The Demon · Barber of Fleet Street. The latter features a certain Mr. Tod Slaugh- ter, billed as \the Horror Man of Europe.\ Competition considered, he must be good. J.D. P. SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Quality Food-Always Open One step from State St. of the great \Rube\ Wadell, incredible stor- The academic exactions of Union are not ies of trained bees, droll accounts of Union's so pi·essing as to preclude participation of past, and colorful commentaries on affairs in many students in extra-cul'l'icular activities. general. llis is not a mere course in the Thei·e m·e ve 1 y few men on our campuR who, relative importance of acquired and inherited with a reasonably judicious budgeting of characteristics, but is rather a course in hu- time, would not be able to associate them- man nature-human nature as seen through selves with one activity. Such a budget the eyes of a man whose forty years at would entail, at most, the s::tcrifice of a Union have endea.red him to all who have movie or t\YO, a few bridg-e games, and some known him. Binet tests may soon be forgot- of the afternoon naps. We said everyone ha5 a gas mask -everyone but us. We might have had brother Ralston's, but since he absconded with it, we must now be off to the nearest warden's to acquire one of our own. • ten, but the mellow observations of this No campus group will demand perfection; philosopher \\rill probably never entirely willingness and initiative are the chief desid- escape us. erata. With very few exceptions, these ac- The Concordiensis salutes i..\Iinerva's senior tivities are under-manned and will welcome professor at the beginning of his fortieth new recruits. Each activity offers invaluable year on our campus. 1\Iay the popular query experience in its respective field as well as of Union men for years to come be \And managerial and executive training. Former how is 'Johnny' l\Iarch ?\ Concordiensis editors who have attained WHEN AND IF prominent positions in the business world have written that they now consider their Concordiensis training the most invaluable part of their college career. With members of the college Administra- There is the further consideration that tion, as weJI as aii but one fraternity, ex- the majority of these activities offer award pressing· approval of the proposed fathers' keys; others provide trips, and others re- week-end, it v:C'llrl appear that the possibil- ward their members with salaries. All afford ity of such an event on the Union campus is an opportunity to gain campus recognition not too far beyond the horizon. and to make new friends. There a1·e, however, several difficulties Scholarship is of primary importance, but which must be overcome before the plan can as one personnel manager pointed out, it is become an actuality. The Student Council not the sole requirement of the business must vote its sanction of the proposal and world. \We demand good marks, but we also make definite plans fot· the week-end. The want those marks backed up. by an indication Council should, we feel, also e11list the aid of of active participation in college life. Mere the Interfraternity Counci'l in the execution scholarship means little; activities in them- of this project. In view of the support which <>clves mean even less. A well-balanced com\ the pla,n was accorded in the recent frater- bination of the two, however, means a great nity inquiry, the Interfraternity Council will deal.\ • As a matter of fact. a fact. FACULTY- STUDENTS Special Offer Time Magazine College Subscription $2.50 Call ROBERT EISNER '40 Kappa Nu House-4-7331 Restaurant - Tap Room Delicatessen GOLD'S ALWAYS POPULAR THE YODER, nicknamed Pedro, is an amazing elec- trical device which actually talks-the first machine in the world to do that! By pressing keys, singly or in combination, a skilled operator can make Pedro talk in almost human fash- ion-with varying inflections and in either a man's or ' . a woman s votce. The V oder is an outgrowth of fundamental research in speech sounds, articulation and voice reproduction being carried on at Bell Telephone Laboratories. Such studies have led-and will lead-to constantly im~ proving telephone service for you. I I \ Un( Cl.a Riva the gr row v Union mont this lc will b• team these defeat shoulc most Union year i passel tle be back shoul• terest Goa make suit c of tl \Satu All ticed for ~ a jur all t in tl gamE ran dOW I St. thre: an • conv seas A> muc the Bak at c Dob will will left tacl The wei Nit will cou qaE it a: n:e .·:•

l. l I i I I I ~ i I ! ' \ \ THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1939 Page Three II INTRAMURAL$ Tennis Matches Undefeated Union, Vermont Tea:ms Clas!b ; Tomorrow At Burlington Dutchmen Prepare for Battle by Drill On Pass Defense and Do:wnfield Blocking Rivals for 39 years will clash on<!'--------------- the gridiron at 'Burlington tomor- Varsity Harriers Seek First Wi'n At Middlebury Panther Runners Claim Superiority Over Team Defeated Last Year SPORT MART By HUDSON H. TANNER For perhaps the fi.rst time in the history of Union College the open- ing round of the fail tennis is completed without a default ... this is a feather in the hat of the new council which is guiding the policies of The third round Tennis matches are to be completed by next Tues- day, providing the courts are in playa·ble condition. For ·every day of rain the playing time will be extended another day. Players are urged to play matches as rapidly as possible since few tennis days remain this fall. Fall Track Meet row when the footbaU teams of In the event either ·Enstice and Union and the University of Ver-. or Bob Baker start it will be the mont play the thirteenth battle of fi.rst time that sophomores have The varsity cross-country team this long rivalry. The Catamounts been in the starting line up this left this afternoon for Middlebury will be in tdm to give the Garnet season. Up to this time the start-· where it will seek its first win in team a lot .of tl'ouble. Neithet' of ing line-ups have consisted of five three meets against the Panther these strong teams bas as yet been seniors and. six juniors. runners, who are opening their defeated this year and the contest Captain Hammerstrom might be season with tomorrow morning':; Union's intramurals this year .... The second half of the fall track meet will be held next Wednesday afternoon at 4 o'clock. should be a close one. One of the called the Un·ion gri.d star for this most adequate backfield men that year as he has scored most of the Uni 0 n will .have to cope with this points in the games so far this. yea-r is Frank Taylor, a runner and season. Sam is tied, according to passer of no mean ability. The bat- the Associated Press, with three tle between the excellent Vermont others .for second place in points back aRd Captain Hammerstrom scored this season. run. This column wou:d like to comment upon the lack of spirit shown last Saturday as far as cheering is concerned ... as freshmen we were all instructed to learn the college cheers for u,;e at the football games but Saturday's showing proved one of two things- -either the cheers were never leat·ned by the upperclassmen 0r else they have bee>n com- pletely forgotten ... we do not ask for the type of cheering which appears at the different stadia throughout the country but we do ap- peal to the students to make a showing which will pep up rather than drag down the atmosphere surrounding the game ... this year pro- vides one of the best opportunities for cheering that have appeared for a long. long time and the students Bhould be cheering their heads off ... prospects for a banner season couldn't be better and yet the cheer- ing section sounds weak enough to be carried off the field on stretchers. We play R. P. I. on October 28th on Al'exander Field in one of the fea- ture games of the season and this column hopes there will be a revival of the cheering which was prevalent a mere two years ago .... should ·prove one of the most in- The team has been practising on teresting of the season. downfield blocking and tackling Coach BiH Ketz took seve'l m<'n and seemed hopeftrl of trouncing the Middlebury squad. Gale Hofl'- man, .senior veteran, who mi~ded the N. Y. U. run Saturday, will not make the trip, since he is 0ut of condition from his week,; quar- antine at the Beta house. Coach Nitchman declined to this last week. This was the big make any prediction about the re- weakness detected early last week. suH of the game or the condition The men have been working hard of the team, laconically stating to buHd up their weak points and. \Saturday will tell the story.\ they hope to reach perfection in this game. Drill On 'Pass :Defense The probable starting line-up for AH this week the team has prac- the Vermont Catamounts will be: ticed pass defense in pr,eparation ends, Patterson and Corbett; for Vermont's .star, Taylor. He is tackles, Carlson and Lawrence; a junior and a halfback. He scored guards, Strassburg and Dubie, and all the nineteen Vermont points center, Reed. The backfield will in the Amherst and St. Lawrence consist of Spasyk at quarterback, games. In the Amherst game he Taylor at left half, Captain Pye at ran thirty-five yards for a touch- right half and Hodys at fullback. That Middlebury has a str.:Jn~l!r aggregation than the one which dropped a 17-38 meet to the Dutch- men here last fall is proven by the time made in recent trials. Bob Post, '4.0, who finished just two seconds behind the present Garnet co-captain, Paul Santoro, when the teams met at Middlebury two year.; ago, has run the course in 24:32, which is 12 seconds better than his time against Santoro two years ago. Post did not run last fall, but is No. 1 for Middlebury at preB- ent. Captain Mecure and Howard Schlieder, the next two men on Coach Brown's team, are almost a minute slower than Post. PLUG OF THE WEEK-To Fred Patrie( veteran halfback on the varsity football team for the heads up play that he pulled against Mid- dlebury in picking up a punted ball after it was only touched by a Mid- dlebury player. . . . Patrie has been one of the out:otanding athletes at Union and has won letters in football for two yea1s oi varsity com- petition ... he also received freshman numerals for football, being a member of the undefeated freshman eleven of 1936 ... in addition to his football Patrie has earned numerals in basketball and baseball and has received Blocl~ \U's\ for baseball during his sophomore and junior years. . . . Fred is a resident of Albany where he was outstanding as an athlete at Cathedral Academy ... he is a senior and hopes to The Catamounts have an excel- lent record this season having beaten Amherst 7-6 and St. Law- rence 12-0 and tying with Colby 0-0 last Satmday. The Vermont men have a small squad this sea- son, only twenty-three men, in comparison with thirty-seven on the the Garnet team. This should give Union a slight edge on the Catamounts in the matter of re- down and sixty-five yards again~t Vermont Has Small Squad St. Lawrence. Another Vermont threat is Captain BiH Pye who was an end last year, but has been converted into a blocking baclt this season. As for the Union starters not much is known as yet, however if the Union team kicks off, Bob Baker, a defensive star, will start at center and if Vermont kicks off, Dob Molloy, an offensive threat, will start. It is definite that Kearns will start at right guard, Krull at left guard, Wa'lly Baker at right taclde and Kluge at left tackle. The ends will be Guibert and Both- well and as tor the blcks Coach Nitchman is not certain. Norris will start at 1 ig.ht half and, of course, Captain Sam Hammer- st:om will fill the fullback post. At qaarter it is not certain whether it will be Balch or Sherman and a: left half either Enstice or Van- n:e~ will fi!l the position. serves. The rivalry between Union and Vermont dates back thirty-nine years to November 3, 1900. The recot d of the games played since tevea's that Union has won six, lost four and tied two. The Union team, which left Sche- nectady this afternoon at one o'clock, will spend the night at Burlington. There will be no prac- tice tomorrow morning preceding the game, according to Coach Nitchman. Sophomores Who May Start Game graduate this June .... There is a lot of talk about cross country each year but it is doubt- Conly Sufft\rs Leg Injury Bill Hawkes, captain of the Dutchmen in 1937, made the time of 24:12.6 on the Middlebury course in taking first place. Santoro came within 18 seconds of Hawkes' rec- ord for the local course in Satur- day's run in which he fmished sec- ond to Leslie McMitchell and in view of his improvement, coupled with the better running of Post, a close fight for first place should ensue. Co-Captain Frank Melewicz and Bill Johnson, who have been run- ning close together all week seem definitely better than the Panther second and third men and should cLnch valuable points for the team. Don Collins will have a job cut out for himself, but much depends upon his getting into the first five. Dick -.:only, who had all but beaten Col- J:ns cut of the fourth spot on the .earn, has suffet ed from a leg in- jury this week and may not do well n tl:e run. ful if many students have ever seen the course over which the Dutch- men labor for some twenty odd minutes ... the average student watches the mad scramble at the start and then settles bach to wait as the runners leave the gate ... we suggest that some of these stu- dents who consider cross country an uninteresting sport follow the runne1s around the 4.7 mile course that is laid out ... there will be a surprise in store for the doubting Thomases for the run is gruelling ftom beginning to end ... above all, we suggest that the onlookers take a car and not try to run it for ther·e are no cars waiting at the end of the first couple of miles. . . <Continued on Page 4l NOTICE i Students taking physical educa- \ tion are urged to consult the bulle- tin board in the basement of the Gymnasium in order to find out the number of class absences cred- ited to them. These absences must be made up before November 13. PARAMOUNT PETE'S 22 Church St. Ph. 1613 \TOPS in SARATOGA\ for Union Dates C:ea'haring the NEW Marine Room 1Krauf11 Just around the corner on Eastern A' renue Quality Ice Cream Light Lunches OPEN TILL MIDNIGHT Douw F. Beekman Gasoline - Brake Service U. S. Tires - Motor Tune-up Exides - Lubrication • Let Us Prepare Your Car for Winter 601 UNION ST • Open Until II P.M. Football Field Meet The football field meet will take place next Thursday and Friday. A full list of events will be run off each day beginning at 1 p. m. Bowling Enh•ies Bowling entties arc to be handed in not later than Friday, October 28. Class Football The finals of the class football games will be played on Monday on Alexander Field at 12:45 p. m. The winner of the Fr·eshman-Sopho- <Continued on Page 4) AERO LANE! DID YOU see the big ad in the Saturday Evening Post about Arrow's newest shirt pattern, AEROLANE? Well, this handsome shirt is right here on our shelves-in your size and sleeve -length and your favorite color. Come in to- day .and get it-and win compli· ments for it all Fall and Win· ter. Sanforized-Shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than I o/o! ) BARNEY•s 217 STATE ST. In tl:e event that Conly does not .:o well coach Ketz will have to ~e;.end upon Jack Pearson and L,o.;' l\1a.ne:J. Maines has shown a <.J..t :~~p:cvement this week, hav- .. 1.: 1-:a_ec! second to Santoro on _ .... ~uu~y afternoon's six mile run. __ e ::;hould find the shorter Middle- _J_..rz_·y-~ours_e ~o ~s-lik_i_n~~---~~~:=~::;::;;='=::;::;;::;::;;~::;::;;~-;;;;:;;:;:_:=_=:_=:::,::,::,::~ -~.;:;:::~~~~~::;::;;::;::;;::;::;;::;::;;:;:;:::~~;:;:-~--- ------- Completely Renovated Come in and Enjoy Yourself ROBERT BAKER A FULL EVENING OF LAUGH-PACKED EN T E R:T A IN MEN T ED ENSTICE Top flight shirt for Fall- ARROW'S A£ROLAN£ HERE'S a new shirt pattern that rates strato· sphere high in looks - AEROLANE! Maybe you've seen it featured in the Saturday Evening Post. But anyway you'll want to see it on our counters ... and once you see it there, you'll want to see it on your chest. It's got perfect Arrow tailoring, the one-and-only Arrow collar •.. and it's Sanforized-Shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than 1% !) Get it today ..•.••••••• $2. Special Aerolane Ties $1 NUSBAUM'S · 447.-451 STAttE StREET , ,. I' . Follow Arrow And You FoJiow The Style ....... It's_ ]llat~'::\ Arrow Week ~#··-:!'•' ...... :.·.·:·· s£recrJ}~;; · : .. His Master's Choice AN Arrow combination hard to beat is this AEROLANE feature ... Arrow shirt ($2) and Arrow tie ($1) ••• both made precisely for each other. This distinctive spaced stripe broad- cloth shirt, tailored by Arrow, will win many compliments for you. Get yours today, in colors, blue, tan and green- all sizes. Sanforized Shrunk (Fabric shrinkage less than I%)· ARROW SHIRTS COLLARS ••• TIES ••• HANDKERCHIEFS .•. UNDERWEAR

Page Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1939 SPORTS MART I ~ IN THE MAIL Fre.shm. a:n Eleven Anderson to· Speak March Traces Career At Union Dear Sir: In Sunday Chapel This is just a note to express M t M\ dd I b The Rev. Wallace W. Anderson, the appreciation of the football • . , ee S . , 'I . ' e. ury D.D., of the State Street Conl?re- squad and coaching staff for the gational Chm•ch, Po;··tland, JY.[ame, t Continued from Page 3) tOmtinued from Page 1) Some time ask BiH Ketz why Leslie McMitchell didn't finish in fast- er time than he ·did ... this column favors the financing of a reporter to travel to away football games in order to get an ACCURATE ac- count of the games ... it isn't asking too much with a team like this year's. . . . Dr. Doty is still knocking 'em off on the courts ... the latest was Dr. O'Rourke who had an off day. . . . Willis Brandow, '36, former mighty mite of the basketball courts, t•eturned to the campus ... he works in Panama ... according to the Associated Press, UBion College is the third highest scoring team in the East to date. , . . Mar- shall i.s ahead of the paclt with 146, Harvard is second with 81, and Union takes third with 79 ... 61 uf Harvard's 81 points wete ,;cored a\ainst Chicago ... and by the way, the Associated Press called the t;ams \the IPading Eastern CoiiPg<\ Football tE'ams\ and does NOT in- clude Trinity, Middlebmy, Havel'fotd, or Williams ... R. P. I. placed fifth in the listing with an even 70 points ... Dartmouth's 75 took foUl th ... ·brary was absolutely empty, be- cause it was so hard to 'heat.\ t·evived and. enlivened spi-1 it so well The Garnet freshmen will have . wiH be the speaker m the Sunday shown in last Friday night's t•ally their third tilt of the season with Chapel Service this Sunda~. T~e and at Saturday's game. Further, the Middlebury frosh this Sati.lr- title of his sermon wHI be Chrts- a wot•d of commendation for the day. The team will go to Vermont tianity Confronts Secularism.\ more discreet use of publicity in 'and carry aU the members of th~ The Rev. Mr. Anderson gradu- advance of the game and subse- squad. Last week center Hocb:uJ.t ated ft•om Amherst College in 1922 quent to it. However, many still and back Quigley were unable to and went from there di·rectly tfl err by their frequent reference to play because of the Beta quara:\- the Union Theological Seminary the somewhat remote Williams tine, but this week the te~m WI~l in New York City, graduating in game. Om· next two contests bring be stt·engthened with their addr- 1925. He then served in the Franlr- us in contact with an undefeated tion. Paul Santee will start a.t e~d lin Street Congregationa·l Church University of Vermont team, and and either Jones or Hochuh wrU in -Manchester, New Hampshire, a very strong, spirited, R. P. I. start at the center position. and then went to the Faith Congre- team. Our concern is Vermont this . The yearlings 11ave been hard at gational Church in Springfield, Satut day after which our thoughts nractice this weelr and they hope Mass. For the past year and a half will turn to R. P. I. In view of this ~(:) make a better shflwing than in he ha.;; been at his present post in fact let us all fotget our WiHiams previous contests. The last two Portland. Turning to the days of the first World War, Dr. March said that there were some who entered Cfll- lege in those days to e::ca.pe the necessity of going to war. A great many, of course, volunteeted from the college, and there were still rome from among our alumni. In thoEe days the1•e was no question of whether a pen;on would go to war, once it was declared. And s0 we bow for the weelt-end ... Union is undefeated and so is Vt>rmunt Cnivcrsity . . Dutchm<>n. bri-ng home the ba<'on! ... Comparing ihe past with the pt esent. Dr. March mid that in the early days of the century the pro- fessors had somewhat less book- leaming than they have now. He added, however, that he felt they were \intensely interesting gentle- m<>n. The faculty, w·hen I m·- rived, was one ur the mo~t intet- e~ting group of men I have ever <\een Dr. Mat·ch s·~ated \They en- tered more into the student life, I thinlc There was then nfl such thing as an unrecognized pt ofes- Delta Upsilon Leads In Fall Track Meet Ddta L'psilun wl'nt to thP fore \Vednesday afternoon to take the litst half of thl' fall track meet. By capturing two fitst places, onr sec- end, and two thinis, they acquired a total of twenty points The scores for Wednesday's com- petition are: Delta Upsilon, 20; Sigma Phi, 8; Phi Gamma Delta, 8; Phi Delta Theta, 7; Kappa Al- pha, 5; Theta Delta Chi. 4; Phi :::Hgma Kappa. 3; Psi Upsilon, 2; Kappa Nu, 1; Kappa Sigma, 1; and Delta Chi, 1. The results: Shot put: Mara. Delta Upsilon, tit st; 1-'as,;e, Delta Upsilon, s<·c- und; Gregory, Sigma Phi, third; Jillson, Phi Sigma Kappa, fourth; GtPt'nstein, Kappa Nu, fifth. Dis- tance: 33 feet, 2 inches. 120 yard low hurdles: Wilkin. Sigma Phi, first; Wysocki, Theta Delta Chi, second; Holmes. Kappa Alpha. third; Keye:;, Phi Delta Theta, fourth; Van 'Zandt, Phi Sigma Kappa, fifth. Time: 15:2. 220 yard dash: Muther, Delta Upsilon, first; MacMillan. Phi Gam- ma Delta. second: Spittle. Delta Upsilon, third; Harwood, Psi Up- silon, fourth; Kopf, Kappa Sigma, lifth. Time: 24:0. Running broad jump: Brockner, Phi Delta Theta, lirst; Chase. Phi Gamma Della, second; Hutchins. Dclta Upsilon, third; Holme:;, K·tppa Alpha. fourth; Orlowslri. Delta Chi, fifth. Distance: 17 feet, 4 t.\ inches. ~--o-~- INTRAMURAL$ t Continued from Page 3> more contest will mert the winner of the Junior-Senior game. The losPr in Pach contest will play off for the third and fourth positions on Monday at the same time. The winner of the tournament will be awarded four points. sPcond place thl ee points, third place two points and fourth place one point. The class having the greatest number of points at the end of the year's competition will have their names inscl'ibed as clas:o champions on a plaquE: to be erected in the Gym- nasium. Freeman's High Quality WALLPAPER PAINT GLASS For Past 142 Years Freeman & Son. Incorporated Phone 4-9155 12-20 Erie Blvd. PEARSON'S I 108 Not+ Terrace Vl 0 m Sodas • Candy :::0 z < ::::> Magazines m ...J Papers - Ice Cream 0 Cigarettes Disc-ussions With the opening ut thP new musical show \Too Many Girls\ last night, a fl<ll'k of new Rodg<>r> and Hart tune\ were officially burn. Those of )Oil who comider the~e ~ongwriters a,; tops in their. f.i!'ld, as I do, will not be disap- pointed in this P.ew output. Most of these number:; had been waxed before the s11ow',; open~ng by some of out· leading orche:;tJ·as, and. they have given us, !or thP most patt ~orne excellent records. Maty Jane Walsh, one of the leads in the show, has recorded the four hit tunes which are \Love Never Went. to College\ \I Like to Recognize the Tune\ \Give It Back to the Indians,\ !'nd \I Didn't Know What Time It \Vas.\ The :;ecund and third numbers will be remembered chiefly becau,;e of the cleverness of their lyrico, the fom th number be- ing one of those beautiful senti- mental tunes that Rodget·s and Hart do so welL In all t·he:;e num- bers, Miss Walsh displays a great talent for putting a song over in a voice that i;; both clear and pleasing. She is definitely a hit! The only fault with the record:; is the orchestra accompanying her· which doe:; not give her the sup- port ~he deser·ves. \Time\ and \College\ have also been given top- notch renditions by Hal Kemp and BPnny Goodman. Woody Helman, whose band ~eems to get .better every time I hE'ar it, has done himself proud again by impressing a beautiful new number yclept \Blue Dawn\ ThE' 1·everse EidP \If I Knew Then\ pt·oves once more what a truly great organization Herman really ha:;. Woody does the vocals on both ,;ides. ERIE BARBER SHOP 22 Erie Blvd. 110 Wall St. A good haircut for a neat appearance 2 HITS BELLINGER PAINT CO. Arthur Trigg, Prop. Paints. Oils, Varnishes, Glass Brushes and Wallpaper 126 BROADWAY C. S. M 0 0 D Y Optomf'trist Eyes Examined, Glasses Fitted 115 B'way Telephont> 6-5747 Three Doors from State St. in a friendly, dignified atmosphere. O'MARA'S New Restaurant • Good food and drink \The white place with the picket fence.\ Ill WASHINGTON AVE. PINE GROVE DAIRY, lncs 61 ERIE BLVD. PHONE 4-7741 Watch and Jewelry Repairing Engraving JAY JEWELRY CO. COR. STATE and CENTER STS; rivalry until after October 28th. In games wete with Morrisville Ag- During the summers of 1934 and the interim all of us directly con- gies and Kent School, both losses. 1937 he went to Europe as a mem- cet ned wifh Union Colkge football The Middlebury freshmen have. ber of the American Seminar under ;incet·ely hope your splendid spirit never beaten the Union team in a the leadership of Sherwood Eddy. and support will continue to come football game. They have only forth tipuntancously. ,;cored once in the series and that sor.\ \One reason the faculty had more interesting per »onaHtie,; in in those days was that they were not so ·bound by fact.\ Dr. March concluded his intet· view with an answer to a question about the degree to which Union students pos:;ess \intellectual curi- osity\. \On the whole, I thin It Union has been happily ft ee from that type of ~tucent who ·ha~ no thought but for ple:tsure This has been especially true in I ecent years when added competition for jobs has made undergraduates espe- cially attentive to studie:o Since be- fore my first year here, Union has been offering scholarships. and even in tho~e days there were stu- dents who worked their way through college.\ \In the old days, a man could always succeed, whether or not he knew anything; or, if he couldn't he could go out west. Now that that type of oppmtunity is gone and since the depres>ion, it has been the popular attitude to my that the chance to >ucceed is gone I do not think this is true. Amer- Sincerely yours, only six points. Signed, Nelson W. Nitchman, The Union team hopes .to have To the Editor: a slight edge on the junior Panth- ers because this is the first game this season for them. When ques- It has been noticed that the· tioned on the outcome of the game cheering has b0en very ragged Coach La:wrence said that he would Lfl'less and doisorganized at the last make no predictions, but he hoped few home footba11 games. In or- for the best, a victflry. dE>r to ,;how the campus that there is still a class of '43, the freshmen a1 e organizing a cheering section. This was proposed at the last freshman meeting and met with a great deal of eBthusiasm. Hal Wittner is re~erving seventy good ~eats e~pecially for freshmE'n and all those dPsii·ing to sit in this section kindly tell him so when they take him their student ath- letic cards ·to get a sE>at for the next home game. In order to best prove their use- fulness, a practice has been sched- uled for 2 o'clock on Monday, Oc- tober 23 at Alexander Field. Come on frosh, get behind this thing and put it over with a bang. Bruce May, '43. -~~o---- JACKET LOST Our Superior Hotel Type of Barber Service COSTS YOU NO MORE Hotel Van Curler BARBER SHOIP LET THIS SYMBOL A blown plaid zipper jacket with a hood was taken from Hale House on Wednesday evening. Will the person who took it or anyone who !mows anything about it please get in touch with Mrs. ica's oppmtunities may he diffe1ent Briggs in Hale House or with Ed- now, but they exist just as sut·ely ward Green at the Delta Upsilon · as they ever· did.\ I frH;o;u;s;:·e;.=:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;,;;;, Be Your Guide in Buying ICE CREAM R for building health in / mind and body Amsterdam Dairy M ILK 2 glasses before retiring Repeat Daily Always Refreshing . A Haircut at the ACME Barber Shop Where Service is a P.feasure 509 Union St. Phone 4-4525 Product of General Ice Cream Corporation Henry's Barber Shop 10 New Yorlc Central Arcade 4 BARBERS Haircutting - Manicuring ELECTRICAL ITEMS for STUDENT NEEDS m a complete display at M .. GOLD & SON 619 State St. Phone 4-6981 Schenectady, N. Y. Phone 6-2351 for Daily Delivery VAN CURLER MUSIC CO. SHIRTS $1.29 HATS Featherweights Silk Trims and Rough Mixtures Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market OUR MOTTO with the world's most famous collar \Quality - Service Satisfaction·' $2.00 Edison Hats 309 State St. (2 doors from Erie Blvd.) 598 Broadway For Better Values 'blue' COAL - FUEL OIL - SEEDS • FERTILIZERS HIRAM J. McKAIN COMPANY 306-314 Union St. Phone 4-4448 Special Group Sale SUITS O\COATS TOPCOATS REDUCED TO $15e00 MINHAM•s MEN'S SHOP 169 JAY ST. i· I Everything in Music R. C. A. VICTOR ELECTRIC VICTROLA$ 203 STATE ST. TEL. 4-5318 Gazette Press Printers * Joseph F. Connelly for Mayer of Schenectady DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE v p ( :1, . I ( g s i t

son, gre- The 1922 to in half in and nder N 18 . \I ' , l:i r GJ~-~LL , __ • • Pictu~es Being trnsts Taken for e~rnet Philomatheans Schedule Debates Z-511 Vol. LXIII., No. 11 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1939 PRICE FIVE CENTS ======~==~==~==~==========================~=====================-=-==~-======~============= Mountebanks Director Ruben Selected To Direct Third Mountebanks Play Pilot Training (ourse at ·union ·Is Authorized Fox Names Wold to Head Ground School: Scholarships Offered With the announcement that Union College had been officially selected by the Civil Aeronautics Authority to participate in its Civ- ilian PHot Training Progam for 1939-40, a max-imum of 20 scholar-. ships, ranging in value from $300 to $500, are now available to Union student who qualify .for the non- credit ground-school and flight training course. :Sol.icitations for Subscriptions Fisch Outline DrawAnswersFro!!' Country's Great Plan For Safety A Httle ~no oping around the JlUb I ( • ( • lications office in Silliman Hali Fannie Hurst a·nd William Lyon n 1ty a·mpa 1gn will reward the curious with Phelps, proHfic Yale Authm, · · · : · · • · . · · glimpses -of letters from the coun- Arthur Hays Sulzberger, presi- try's great and near-great, answer- dent of the New York Times, has mg the IDOL's solicitations for subEcribed. Other publishers who subscriptions. Franklin Roosevelt, responded to the IDOL's plea were Thomas E. Dewey, and Willa' Bennett A. Cerf, of the Modern Li- Cather are among those who will brary outfit, and M. Lincoln Schus- receive this year's IDOL, . ter, president of Simon and Schus- , ter. Roosevelt and Dewey will ·re- ceive the only two fr\ee subscrip- Among the lettets the curious tions to ,be given away by the might find, one from Thomas W. IDOL, and both expressed their ap- Lamont, Wall street financier and preciation, Mr. Dewey adding that Morgan partner. Mr. Lamont sent he intends to read the publication . in his subscription through his sec- with interest. WiHa Cather noted retary, who added that he could not novel-ist whose best known book i~ guarantee that Mr. Lamont would perhaps DEATH COMES TO THE subscribe again next year. ARCHBISHOP, confessed that she The IDOL has solicited among now subscribes only to the IDOL others, Richard Whitney, for·merly and to the YALE REVIEW. of Wall Street and at present a Cautions All Students Against Fooling And Reckless Driv.ing Drawing a parallel to Union's successful football team, Fred W. Fisch, '18, speaking in DaHy Assem- bly this morning, told the student body that traffic safety was \a re- sult of coordination and coopera- tion.\ ,JOSE RUBEN French-American Actor Staged Six Plays for Festival Jose Ruben, French and Ameri- can actm· and stage director who staged six plays for the 1939 Mo- hawk Drama Festival here this summer, has been engaged to stage the third production of the Mounte- banks Theatre during its 1939-40 season, President Dixon Ryan Fox announced today. President Dixon Ryan Fox an- nounced that Dr. Peter I. Wold, chairman of the field of Physics, has been appointed director, to serve in conducting the program on the campus and to coordinate the relationships between Union Col- lege, the flight opera.tor at the Schenectady County Airport, and the Civil Aeronautic Authority. Dr. Wold's staff of instructors for the ground-school will consist of Professor Frederick W. Grover of the Electrical Engineering field, Professor Russell A. Hall, co-chair- man of the division of Engineering, Professor Everett Thatcher of the Physics field, and Robert Stanley, instructor in civil engineering. H. L. Mencken, the \sage of Baltimore\ whose two hundi ed and fifty pounds of \editorial beef\ graced the Union College Campus ~ast February, subscribed applaud- mg the IDOL's policy of only two f_ree subscriptions. Other literary hghts who have subscribed include Insurance Plan Gains Adherents resident of the State Penitentiary near Ossining. Kay Francis of the film colony, Governor Herbert H. Lehman of New York State, and Walter S. Gifford, President of the American Telephone and 'l'nlegraph Company, are among tho<e who have to date failed to take advan- tage of the IDOL's offer. Mr. Fisch, a traffic safety engi- neer with the City of Schenectady, outlined the city's campaign to end accident casualties and deaths. \In March, 1938,\ he said, \the City of Schenectady set up a bureau of traffic safety. In the first ten months, accidents were reduced 18 per cent. This year there has been a 25 per cent decrease over last.\ The success of such a program, the speaker pointed out, depends on three things. The first is the co- ordination of engineering and edu- cation. The second is community cooperation. His third point was enforcement of laws pertinent to traffic safety. Sophomores Plan For Class Dance Mr:. Ruben will stage a comedy, for performances on May 3, 4, 6 and 10, but the choice of the play has not yet been definitely made by the executive committee. Among the suggested plays now under consid- eration, however, is Gogol's classic, \The Inspector General.\ The Mountebanks will open their season November 17, 18 and 20 with a presentation of \Journey's End\ under the direction of Miss Miriam Doyle, vice president and chief di- rector for Laurence Rivers, Inc., producers of the- currently touring Edward Everett Horton production of \Springtime for Henry,\ closing tonight in Albany. Miss Doyle, who holds the distinction of being the first woman on the Union College faculty by virtue of her having staged \Squaring the Circle\ for the Mountebanks in 1937, is expected to stage the second play sometime in March. Ground School and Flight Training The Civilian Pilot Training Pro- gram will consist of a ground- school course and of a flight-train- ing course. The ground-school will be conducted at Union College and will comprise a total of 72 hours of lectures on the following aspects of aviation: History of aviation, civil air regulations, navigation, metereology, parachutes, airchaft a.1d theory of flight, airplane en- gines. instruments and radio uses. The flight-training course which will be conducted in cooperation with the Schenectady County Air- port with George C. Haven, As- sistant Manager of the Airport as Chief Flight Instructor, calls for a minimum of 35 hours of flight in- struction. In describing the nature of the Civilian Pilot Training program, Dr. Wold said, \The purpose of the program is safely and adequately to train a large group of young men who give promise of interest in and ability to continue flying ac- tivities as private pilots. The train- ing is entirely civil n nature and details no military or other obliga- tions.\ Dr. Wold recalled that in the fall of 1929, just 10 years ago, Union College offered a compara- ble course in cooperation with the Colonial Air Service and that 25 students took the course. At that time, however, the course was not sponsored by the Federal Govern- ment and students paid the costs of tuition and other fees which amounted to over $400. The Al- b3ny Airport was used for the flight training part of the pro- gram. Dr. Wold said that the scholar- ships offered by the Civil Aeron- autics Authority would cover the tuition for both the ground•school <Continued on Page 4) ---a---- Pictures Being Taken For 1940 Senior Garnet Senior pictures for the 1940 Gar- net which have been taken during the past wee}~ are expected to be completed shortly, Harry Crosby, '41, editor of the annual said to- day. Crosby also announced at the timo that three members of the sophomore class have become members of the Garnet's editorial board. The assistant sophomore editors are Charles Stiles, Keith McCandless, and Justin Perlstein. He added that he expected to have definite information as to the plans for the book by next week, at which time engraving \mats\ will be available. James Ullman, '41, business man- ager of the pUblication, announced at the same time that five candi- dates have answered his call for members of the business staff. Ull- man said that canvassing for ads had already begun in Schenec- tady. I I I Parents Subscribe To Accident Insurance For Campus Injuries Union College has received an- swers to 111 of the letters sent to parents of Union undergr actuates, indicating that they wish to sub- scribo to ·the accident insurance plan offered by the college, it was announced yesterday by a repre- sentative of the insur-ance company which handles the policies. Last year the plan was not of- fered until Thanksgiving. 64 stu· dents were enrolled after the first set of letters had been sent out. and 56 more enrolled after mid- years. All the claims which we; e made to the company were paid, it was announced. The clain:s · ranged from $3 to $127.40, includ- · ing one for a case of knocked-out teeth. The same company which un- derwrites the policies for Union College provides policies for ~orne 800 colleges throughout the coun- try, the company's representative said. Throughout the country a.s a whole, the policies just about mal{e enough to cover the cost of claims and handling, he said. A unique conditic.n was noticed at Union, it was announced, in that 57 of those who enrolled in the plan last year failed to re-ent oil. In tho country at large, most of those who use the plan one year continue to do so throughout their career at school. ----0---- Rev. Anderson Foresees Rising Secular Tide \In our modern world Chris- tianity is confronted by a nsmg tide of secularism,\ Reverend Wallace vV. Anderson, D.D., ex- plained, speaking Sunday in Me- morial Chapel. Anderson is the reverend of the State Street Con- gregational Church, in Portland, Maine. \Secularism Reverend Ander- son explained,\ is the term we use to describe that type of existence which results when life is arranged apart from God. It is powerless to destroy certain profound needs in man to which religion, in one way or another, has always min- istered. If man fails to fashion a high religion with a great faith around these needs we find him seeking some cheap substitute, in an attempt to satisfy those needs.\ Secularism has given man no adequate objects of devotion, An- derson continued. Having brushed aside God as a supreme object of devotion, people are turning in other directions. Modern dictators suffering from messianic com- plexes are able to corral their huge following in part because high religious loyalties have faded out. Trenches On Campus For Pipes Not Battle In keeping with the war Shows Figures on Accidents spirit of the times, the Union Mr. Fisch quoted figures showing Campus is besprinkled with that accidents on the highways of trenches these autumn days. Of the natlon have caused more than an evening the college grounds twice as many deaths as the six have been subjected to frequent major wars in which this nation blackouts. has taken part. \The total deaths However, these warlike prep- in the six wars,\ he explained, \was arations are not in anticipation 44,000. 440,000 were killed on the of an air raid, Mr. Anthony highways since the invention of the Hoadley, Comptroller, said yes- automobile. There is no purpose in terday. The trenches, he ex- this slaughter.\ plained, have been dug to per- Concluding, the traffic engineer mit the laying of new steam cautioned the students concerning lines, one from the boiler build- . reckless driving. '\Driving is a full ing to the general engineering t'm · b\ h e phas 1 ·zed The age r e JO , e m . bUilding and another between class of 20 years to 29 years are the the engineering building and most dangerous driver·s and are the • he physics laboratory. cause of the highest percentage of The blackouts, and some of accidents. the other trenches, Mr. Hoadley explained, are the results of This situation, said Mr. Fisch, short circuits in the under- could easily be remedied by the ground wiring about the cam- drivers in this category concentra- pus. ting on driving and keeping two ----------------1 hands on the wheel. Spasmodic Chapel Attendance Indicates Fridays Most Popular There must be a reru:on for it, we think, but at this stage of the game, \ttendance drops to only ave-rage. after consulting our unoffic·ial sta- As for the other side of the t'stics on daily chapel bo:ts, we're ledger, the two days on. which conviinced there's no rhyme to it men do about everything except either. not even a jingle. Why approach the Memorial Chapel are s:~ould Union students <•:agger in- Saturday and Wednesdays, with to chapel in co-:d bl-cod at the un- the former as the wor·st offender. godly hour of 10 in the morning The reason for the unpopularay of on some weekdays mo-re often Saturdays, as far as the marker E' than on other? After all, the pro- can see. is probably the desire to grams ·generally last only long make the already light load of claEs enough for one to warm up one's schedu:es on that day, a little light- par ticu~ar are::t of the pe.w, and er. \Vednesday bolts seem to be then the whole shlnd'g is over. caused by a directly opposite rea- son. It is the day perhaps mod At times, whi~c enduring some heavily loaded with schedu'ed of th2 par ticular:y vile orations or classee and hour exams- -whence 1-ttempts thereat, we wonder why . develop the bolts. As far as the peop'e come at all,~-if it weren't e.ffect of exams- is concerned, it is for the bolt restrict!ons, 1.>1 obab:y usually the case that the weeks nobody would. But per·haps our befo-re the quarterly ma-rking pe- campus contemporarieE- attend r iods end, find a !!harp drop in solely for the inspirational value total attendance·. Program Considered For Informal Ev.ent On December 2nd. As an outgrowth of the All- Freshman dance of last year, the Sophomore class is completing plans for the first All-Sophomore dance to be given on the campus in 25 years. In a questionnaire distributed after a daily assembly period to the sophomores for the purpose of sounding out the opinion of the class as to the desirability of such a dance, 229 affirmative replies were received. Many suggestions were also listed which are being incorporated in the plans for the affair according to Armand V . Feigenbaum, '42, chairman of the dance committee. The price of the dance to all sophomores will be $1.00, it is re- ported, and none other than mem- bers of the class of '42, will be ad- mitted. Plans, however, have been made to extend bids to certain members of the other classes who will be invited to attend as guests of the sophomore class. Feigen- baum announced that the decora- tions would be entirely different from other occasions and that sev- eral novelty numbers, the nature of which will be announced short- ly before or during the dance, would be featured throughout the event. No band has yet been signed. Louis J. Carr, '40, president of the Stuqent Council, George An- derson, '42, president of the sopho- more class and Feigenbaum have appointed the following men to serve on committees: Came to America in 1910 Mr. Ruben's career in the theatre in this country has been chiefly as an acto!\. He came here with Ma- dame Sarah Bernhardt in 1910. But of recent years he has devoted an increasingly larger part of his time to stage directing. Mr. Ruben has staged \Hot Water,\' \First Mo!\tgage \A Won,- derful Night,\ \The Cat and the Fiddle,\ \All the King's Horses.,\' \Strip Girl,\ \May Wine,\ and \Ma- dame Capet.\ For the Mohawk Drama Festival last summer he staged \Romance \Taming of the Shrew,\ \The College Widow,\ \Charlotte Corday,\ \Our Town,\ and \Abraham Lincoln.\ Before he came to America he starred in plays presented in every important capitol of the European countries. Mr. Ruben believes that a \play is a symphony without music,\ and that a stage director must give it mood, tempo, and c!\eative interpre- tation in translating the author's work to an audience. 0•---- Philomatheans Schedule Non-Decision Debates Edward Schulze, Richard Conly, Joseph Furlong, William Axford, Robert Muther, Angus Morison, Clifford Bowdish, Benjamin Le- land, John Baas, Delphis Goldberg, Earl Schwalje, William Kreusi, William Weller, Andrew Kay, Roy Webster, Alexander Arony, and Robert Nothacker. Announcement of other committee heads and com- mittee members will be made next week. ----o---- cf the hymne by the choir. Per- haps they want to see whether · Tuesday is a popular day with Prexy remembered to wear his underclassmen, but when it comes spats. Perhaps they want to fin-ish to the junior and senior sections·, a math a-ssignment or read a chunk for some unexplainable reason of Byron in time for a nasty there is a lower relative attend- 10 :20. or perhaps they want to ance on thet da-y than on other mooch a day's. supply of cigarettes ccmparab:e days. from all their little fr icndL•. ThU!'Sday, accm ding to the mark- Chemistry Club to Visit Fuel Company on First Trip Thirteen debates have thus far been scheduled by the Philoma- thean Society for the varsity de- bating team, the schedule com- mittee said today. Eight of the de- bates have been scheduled on the campus, while the remaining five are away. Among the teams that have thus far been scheduled are Dartmouth, R. P. I., Mount St. Vincent, Hamilton, Middlebury and Colgate, while correspondence con- cerning possible debates has been received from as far south as South Carolina. All the debates scheduled are on the basis of the new system of intercollegiate round Tho Chemical Club is sponsoring table argumentation that Union a trip to the Hudson Valley Fuel has been attempting to institute Company in Troy, N. Y., on Wed- in the East. Response to the new nesday, Octobet· 25. This is to be system has been more than en- the first of six or seven trips this couraging, club officers said. ers, has perhaps the mo1ot con:;,tant At any rate, students do attend attendance of any day, and there and it has· been said by various is rarely any large rise or fall in and .sundry visiting speaker·s that attendance f1 o!n Thursday to the Union College audience is ex- Thursday. tremely atten.tive and appreciative. All in all, despite the reasons Union undergraduates, it was stated above, per hape the biggest discovered, like to listen to music factor in chapel attendance or bolt- but not participate in its rendi- ing, is habit. Most men have tion. Dur;ng most of last yea:r, worked out in their minds con-· and the time~· this year that Dr, sciouu:y or otherwise a system of Tidmarsh has played rather than the best way to attend chapel, and conducted, Friday h:os been, in gen- still remain within the charmed era!, the day with the larges-t aver- circle of fifty bolts. Beca1,1se most age chapel attendance. When, how-· of them aren't forgetting the ever, there Is group singing, the (Continued on Page 4) year, according ta Angelo Sederis The Philomathean Society has the president of the club. The other also instituted a new policy of trips are to take in the Ludlum club business. It was decided at Steel Company in Watervliet, the the club's last meeting to convene Imperial Color and Dye works in every other week, with round table Glens Falls and the General Elec- debate discus.sions following a trio research laboratories. short business meetin,g. For next These trips are also of interest week's meeting, three round tables to engineers and the engineering have been announced, to be led by students are invited to attend. The members of the team who are fa- group is ·to leave the Chemistry miliar with the new style of de- building at 1;30 ancj anyone in the bate. The tables will be composed college interested may go, The trip . of the new members, chiefly of the is not restricted to the students class of '43 who have joined the of Chemistry or Engineering. club.

Pag,·e Two <trnurnr FouNDED 1877 \:1 Ca!lsa Prrsa Parole :lssai\ )ll'llllll r t•[ tllt .\:--:-.''I i~ltt d Cullq;ia h.· Prt·-l='> a ud du .. tributor of the L~ll:h·gtatt> I li~e~t. Till' \ff{Idal IIL·W:--P.LPL'r=.,;,:! ...,l,;..lt-=:co:.:.::,t_::u~d-,,.,-,,t,-~-u\'\f 'L:\' College. PLtblh.;ht·tl TUl·:-.-lay atul Fridays throughM out tilt• ndl1 gl· ~·t•:tr. 1·:llitur1u.l Houm ... , ~illuu:111 llall, l'uion L'(lllt:>~~ Can1pu:-;. Tt:lt•plmnt~, :::kht·IJt'l'ti.H·Y· 4-013~. Fublleutiuu Ofilce, The Gazct.e J'ress. 334 State ::it .. ::; !ltt·t.t'L'tady, :S Y.. Tdeplume 4-HH EutereU. at the tichcil~c.:t..uly l'u::::.t Uflh:lj as Seculld t'lass ::llal'l :\laHcr. SubscriiJhuu pra:c- F'lVI.! t.'clll~ a \'UlJY; $3.0U a. year, deliver~d anywhet·e lll the Cnited States. Senior Board Lawrence V. Pellettier, Jr ....... Editor-in-Chief 24 N. S. South College-6-9728 Uobert R. Eisner ............ Business Manager Kappa Nu House-4-7331 C. Russell Deyo ............... Managing Editor Chi Psi Lodge-4-6527 George Loadwick l'eck ........... Sports Editor 838 Union St.-6-3548 Christopher M. Fahy .............. News Editor Delta Upsilon House-4-7922 Edwin A. Fitz, Jr ................ Feature Editor 1254 Glenwood Blvd.-4-2867 Jack Rabino\\itz .......... Circulation Manager Phi Sigma Delta House-6-0765 RBPRESENTED FOR N\-TIONAI.. ADVI:.RTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers RePrtsentative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK. N. Y, CHICAGO • BosTON • LOS ANG!L£5 • SAN FftAHCISCO John Lewis Paul Becker Junior Board James Twining Robert Schulberg John Phillips Sophomore Board Alexander Arony, Armand Fiegenbaum, John Grow, Samuel Portnoy, Jonathan Pearson, Solo- mon Blechman Business Staff And~ Kay, Justin Perlstein, Stanley Greenstein. Donald Haigh, L:u;k,u· Schwartz, Arthur Davis. .\l .. l'lfll ~Iillo:;. Issue Editor ................... James Twining Assistants Robert Schulberg Armand Fiegenbaum THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1939 himself, buried in a strange country, a trib- A .F F A I R s Dupres Present ute to the rapid strides taken by the muni- tions firms; munitions firms which have not While Laborites launched a bit- Superb Con;c· e1· 9t ter attack on Britain's conduct of the slightest compunction about selling their the war, and while t.he Nazis re- By PAUL R. JONES, Jr. P roducts to ft·iend and foe alike? ported stliking ~uccess on the western fr·ont, an incident occurred Before an attentive if not over- Is it cowardice for a student not to wish to which chilled the enthusiasm in flowing audience, Marcel Dupre · ] · k 1 d h · Germany and brou\'ht to England and his accomplished daughte:·· P rostitute HS now e O'e of c em1str,\' to per- \' · · gurated the mm \ and France a new fla:;;h of hope Mat gu!'ntP mau ' . - feet a gas which wiH cause lingering torture visible in even the darke~t black- cal season at Union, I•'r·tday eve- to non-combatants as well as soldiers'? out. ni~~e highlights of_ .the c?~c:rt ls it cowardice not to wish to risk mental Only a few days ago the allie>' ~on:oisted of their JOint rerdJhon and Tur·key announcPd the sign- ~f Cesar Franck's SymiJhonic Vari- and moral destruction fighting in a war !ng of a mutual assistance pact. ;.:.til.ns and of M. Dupre's improvisa- which is of no immediate concern to the This was. cf eou:se. a 82 vere b'ow tions. Members of the student bo~y to G:!rm:my and Rus~in, for it not o>'ho had heard our own Dr. Ttd- United States? A war in which there will be ~n'y strengthen~ the podtion of marsh and Major WB~rner, state no ultimate victors other than death, desola- the ari:es, but means determined police executi:ve and pianist. ~ill res!stance to ar.y nHempt by the. ,ecall the qualities of this selection tion and debt, at~d in w1lich even the nominal Nr-zi>· and Lu;si:'ns at control in for bringing out the best in a~ _or- 'll 1 th 't 'll · ? the Dallmns. Turkey has served · Th c 1 s 1 on ·conqueror Wl ose more an 1 Wl· gam • notice not cnly th::~t ~h~ w:~l fie ht ganist and piantst. e pre • and feeling with which it was ren- \\' ar which will probably be terminated by a if Rumania or G, ~ece are attacked det ed wel'e 11 napproacha:ble by any- treaty so vindictive that it will precipitate but will open thP Dardanelles fo.r thing before experienced by an au- allied help if su~h is needed. The dience here. another conflict in a decade or so? \sick m:m\ h~,; finn·! y zega:ncd M. Dupre's improvisation was Today's student has learned much from h:s health rnd is ready to p 1 ove based on four themes submitted by by force tha,t hi:; 1 ccovery b com- four Union College student&. The the last great tragedy-the one now jocosely plete. themes were unrelated and simple, refetTed to as the war which was to have We do not knew at this time. yet he:> was able to make them into d f and po,sibly never shall, what de- the coherent components of a made the worl sa e for democracy. He has mands were made on Turker and whole. It was for this improvisa- seen aHd heard of the anguish caused b~ whr Tmkey 1 efuc·cd them. H is tion that the audience had been this, a war as futile as it was destructive. gene: ally a.g ·ecd. however, that expectantly waiting and the results ·Get many made a great b:under in were gratifying. The students who He realizes that war is no longer a field of sending ~ de!e·g.Hi:n to Moscow to submitted the themes were Paul D. t, h d d · f meet Turkey's 89.1 ~cog:u. r:uss·an Mahoney, Joseph Ledden, Gerald valor, uut as egenerate mto an arena 0 pressure was undoubtedly strcng Knowlton and Elliot Hertzmark. perfidy, intrigue and diabolical devices of de- enough. and G~:m-n interference Among the other selections which struction. He has seen all nations but one proved too much. No country likes have recently been heard from the to be told what to do, and if it is Union consol are Bach's Toccata repudiate their obligations to the country stiong enough it ,- .. m resist to the and Fugue in D minor with which h . h t, bl d th f d f t d end. Turkey was net treated as the program opened. Dupre played W IC pl'Oua Y save em rOlTI e ea • an an equal of RuEs'a and Germany a gt•oup of his own compositions he has observed the periods of false prosper- but ae an inferior. Her pride was including Berchuse (cradle song) itv, loose morality and economic depression naturally hurt. and it is possible and Filieuse cspinning song). These J that Germany and the Soviet Union were recently played by Dr. Tid- which followed in the wake of the last war. suffered a diplomatic defeat for marsh and are largely pictorial. He He has become acquainted with and has lack of tact in handling these im- also played his own Variations on portant negotiations. The Ru:os!ans an old Noel. studied with students from the belligerent appa1ently forgot that they were The other numbers include, Toe- nations, and no amount of .propa!!.·anda will not dealing with tiny Baltic states, cato by Lynwood Farnum, Alleg:l'O ~ but with a fairly l:Hge nation able from the Sixth S~=phony by Wi- convince him that these men are capable of to stand by itse~f. In looking for dor, Canon in B Minor by Schuman, the atrocities which enemy posters will as- causes of the allies' succesl', how- and Prelude in B Flat by Mendels- ever, we must a.!s:J consider the sohn. ON SCREEN Babes in At,ms, written and pro- duced by Michael Z. Moran, score.d and directed by Michael Z. Mor~n, is the greater part of an entertam- ing whole at Proctor's Theater. And a very tunPful amalgam it is, starring Michael Z. Moran (that name! where have I heard it?), beneath whose many-faceted ·exte- rior a discerning patton may de- tect the outlines of the redoubta- ble Rooney. Yel:l, sirs! Andy Hal'dy Gets Rhythm. MGM hasn't revealed its produc- tion costs as yet, but your ·correti- pondent suspects that Leo, Inc., spent little and will mal{e much on this ventUJ·e. Master Rooney and Miss Gatlan.d must have been rather expensive. and they certain- ly didn't get the rights to the Broadway musical of the same name for jar rubbers; for the rest, however well. Leni Lynn, Betty Janes and Douglas McPhail have been gathering dust in the casting office for months, and old relia- bles !ioke Guy Kibbee, Margaret Hamilton and Henr·y Hull can be had cheap. \Where Or When,\ from the 01- iginal score by Ro.dgers & Hart, has been augmeNted by some mu- sical boilerplate which sounds bet- ter than it has any right to, sim- ply because it emanates from the stellarynx of Judy Garland. The sound track has treated July roy- ally. In addition, some of the Mas- ter's forgotten talents are un- earthed and displayed (the Rooney hoofing and the Rooney mimicry), to the immense delight of all as- sembled. And Charley Winninger is swell as the ex-vaudeville-star whose attempt to revive that va- riety of entertainment \lays an egg in Schenectady.\ Smashing the Money Ring is de- signed for those who prefer their action fast and spurious. The drama's here and it's melo. STATE Tuesday, October 24, 1939 cribe to them. They are, he realizes, youths positive act'on of their diplomats, Called back three times by his with much the same ambitions and hopes as especially of one of them. enthusiastic audience for encores, France has in its service a man he included among them Widor's he himself entertains. War is as obnoxious not we\l known to the world, but Toccata, familar to the Union au- to them as it isto him, and he has no desire one who has in his quiet manner dience, because Dr. Tidmarsh has repeatedly shown his ability. He included it often on his programs. to kill or be killed by these men. i~ a short, uglY' litt~le gene1·al The management of the State will take great pride in presenting the motion picture version of Gil- bert and Sullivan's The Mikado, Technicolor throughout, beginning this afternoon. It had better be- ALL TOGETHER NOW The attitude of the American college stu- no.med Maxime Weygand. His dent appears to be one of common sense value was recognized during the World War, and he has constantly rather than of cowardice. He does not ob- since then been called upon to J 'ect to fi~rhtimr in a wal' which ~renuinely solve many of France's n:ajor prob- ~ ~ ~ 1ems. If anything seems hopeless, Frequent exhortations have been address- ed to Union students, urging them to learn the Garnet yells and to cheer on the football team. On the Saturday of the :i.\liddlebury game, however, it was apparent the cheers were as much a mystery to the cheer-leadet·s as they were to the majority of the students. concerns his country, but he is extremely Weygand gets the call, and he sel- . - dom fails. While little has been skeptJCal about havmg a distorted sense of said of him, it is very pmsible that Spectators were treated to the pathetic sight of cheer-leaders who were unfamiliar with the yells trying to lead students who were even less acquaintd with them. Leaders on the 20 yard line went through the routine of one cheer, while their colleagues on the 50 yard line were attempting to direct another yell. The resultant confusion was unedify- ing, to say the least. Certainly no one expects the cheerleading at Union to compare in precision or acroba,tic intricacy qualities with that of more ath- letically-minded institutions, but it scarcely seems too much to expect that all leaders will be directing the same cheet· at the same time. Union's cheers are, at best, not the most inspiring in the country; they become the most uninspiring when two or three of them are given more or less simultaneously: The R. P. I. and Rochester games will, we hope, afford the cheer-leaders an opportunity to prove that Union cheering can be made much more organized and effective than it was at the 1\liddlebury game. COWARDICE? Through the medium of campus polls, col- lege students from all sections of the coun~ try are, in no uncertain terms, manifesting their objections to any possible intervention of the United States in the present European war. By overwhelming majorities these stu- dents have declared themselves vigorously opposed to American entanglement. In many instances poll results have indicated that these undergraduates would refuse to fight in a war on foreign soil. The hue and cry of \cowardice\ is being raised by the so-called patriotic element. But is it cowardice? We prefer to describe it as intelligence. Is it cowardice for a student who has worked hard for a college education to be re- luctant to have that education, as well as national magnanimity assign him a hazard- he himself outmaneuvered Franz OUS role in a fantastic trag:edv-a tra!redy Von Papen and thus helped. to in- ~ J ~ sut e victory for France and her for which he has no sympathy, and which ally, Br:tain. In any event. there · f · · t h d b · 1 is no doubt that he was at least centunes 0 hiS ory ave prove to e, m al <.omewhere behind the scenes help- respects, a \flop.\ ing in some way. He never re- mains idle. LET US KEEP IT THAT WAY The ancient rivalry between the football teams of Union and R. P. I. annually rouses the student bodies of the two schools to a high pitch of spirit which is very commend- able when it is confined to the proper chan- nels. Many regrettable incidents, however, have occurred during the 53 years of the rivalry. Year after year noctumal visits are paid to the rival campus for the purpose of sabotage. Usually only a few bruises are sustained by the participants, but a real physical danger exists in these \raids.\ These forays can do little except antagon- ize the rival student body to reciprocate the demonstration, and if not curtailed might jeopardize the athletic relations between the two colleges. There is also the consideration that a truly fine rivalry, such as exists between Union and Hamilton, finds no need for this typ.e of sophomoric demonstration, but expresses it- self in a splendid friendship which football games only serve to make more binding. Union has long had the reputation of be- ing a college which recognizes the impor- tance of scholarship and gentlemanly con- duct. Let us keep it that way. OUR COLLEGIATE CONTEMPORARIES The AMHERST STUDENT, commenting cau· stically on John Tu:nis' article in a recent issue of the Mercury in which he questioned the ama- teur status of the Jeff's squad, refers to the au- thor as .a \chronic alarmist.\ The STUDENT continues \A self-appointed authority on educar tion, athletics, :fraternities, international affairs, Hollywood and the failure of Harvard graduates in life, Tunis will write on anything no matter how superficial his knowledge of the subject.'' TRINITY COLLEGE is attempting to raise funds by popular subscription to erect a new tombstone for James Williams, who served the college for over 40 years as janitor. At some datE' in the future when action in this war· has been trans- fe·I red from the battlefield to the printed page, we may learn that the outcome wa sthe ret.'Uit of the recently concluded pact. Time does strange things. Powerless and inan1mate as it may seem, it has the peculiar ability to reveal the significance of events as nothing else and no one else can. JOHN A. RUSKOWSKI. TOMORROW 10 a. m.. Daily Assembly Speaker, Ralph H. Tiebout III., '42, Memorial Chapel. 1-1:30 p. m, Glee C'ub Rehears- d. Bannan Hall. 3:30-6 p.m., Gleen Club Rehears- al (entire group), Hanna Hall. THURSDAY 10 a. m., Daiiy Assembly Speaker, Mr. Russel Zeighler. Memorial Chapel. 1-1:30 p. m., Giee Club F..ehean;- al, Hanna Hall. FRIDAY lv a. m., Daily Assembly-Or. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, Memorial Chapel. 1-1:30, Glee Club Rehearsal, Hanna Hall. 1 p. m., Mt. Holyoke Alumnae Association Luncheon, Hale House. FACULTY- STUDENTS Special Offer Time Magazine College Subscription $2.50 Call ROBERT EISNER '40 Kappa Nu House....-4-7331 ---o--- IN THE MAIL gin this afternoon . . . J.D.P. Deat• Sir: During the past several years, dent body. This is not the case. Union College has attempted to Being in a particularly advan- present to its student body, a more tageous position to analyize stu- extensive social program. There dent opinion, it is my belief that has been a tendency to hold less tho Interfraternity Ball is going elaborate, but more frequent to be a tremendous success. Rc- dances The success of such a pro- cordings and radio programs by gram is evidenced by the cocpera- Woody Herman and his orchestra tive support given it by the stu- leave no dcubt as to the ability dent body and the general en- and popularity of the band. It is thusiasm following each affair. One definitely an up and coming or- phase of the \college dance\ which chestra. li was fortunate enough interests me particularly is the to witness a preview of the dec- varied comment voiced by students oration theme and this will with- as to the selections of the band, out doubt reach the zenith point of determination of price, decorations, dance settings at Union. etc. The committee in charge should As yet very little has been said be complimented on their wisdom of the Interflaternity Ball of No-' of selections and the students vember 10. One might unhesitant-~ should be eagerly looking forward ingly say that this lack of com- to the week-end of November 10. ment is due to an uninterested stu- Tony Barbieri. LOUIS WASSERMAN Cj)UALITV MEAT MARKET 354 B'way Ph. 4-3364, 4-3365 1Knmfa Just around the corner on Eastern A\'Emue Quality Ice Cream Light Lunches OPEN TILL MIDNIGHT \Call Ball and Ball Will Call\ Re?JG.b 0 ····~.··· .. i·l .. d·.·e.B·rs .. -· .. -·.··.·· ·. al!i.·· ..•.... ·· .. ···· .... - .. ·· ... '.·.·.·.·.··. · ... · ... · . .. _( . . . . . : .-~ . ' ··. . . . . : ) . . . : .. .. · .·. . Clea~ers · · · . · .. · · · & oy.~t-s P H 0 N E 6-3456 GUERRA PHARMACY We deliver sandwiches and drugs till 11 p. m. PHONE 6-9419 600 UNION ST. Cor. BARRETT Drugs, Prescriptions, Sundries SANDWICHES and LIGHT LUNCHES Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market OUR MOTTO \Quality - Service Satisfaction\ 598 Broadway For Better Values DALEY'S Featuring GOOD FOOD AND DRINKS BOOTH and COUNTER SERVICE 414 STATE ST. = c Wi team eight three lati01 as t Dutc seasc to sa ing t the will! Engi afte1 and the 1 a spi the: a go Unic this Co a( the pre~ the he < him Nel: atti sela pay \Val gail Uni aw: o'cl Ac< of· stu mu bee pUI thE da: be ga ful 53 in! NE R. en ur ra SE to ca m at :·l ' : Cl ' d: i. a I 1'1 'V' s· p \1 d c t I t I t

), c- 8- ty et be rt, he he an eir be- hat Rc- by is 01'- t of 10. E ' '- , THE CONCORDIENSIS, 'f.UESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1939 Page Three A PECK UNION TOPPLES UNBEATEN VERMONT ~------------------------~--------------------~----------------------------------------------~------------ OF SPORTS Garnet Team Wins By l9.;6 Score Hammerstrom Breaking Loose for First Down Santoro Paces Harriers to Win Second Half Offensive Humbles Catamounts Who Had Six-Point Lead With the varsity football team halfway through its eig-ht-garne s c h e d u 1 e with three wins and one tie, specu- lation is rife on the campus ._,,s to wl 1 ·eth.er O·l' not the Spirited by the hard runn-ing of \' Captain Sam Hamme-rstr0m, the Dutchmen can g·o tht·ough the v:1.·Ei-ty football team garnered its · thh d win of the ca:npaign when· season undefeated. Needless it ctefe::1ted the to1melly unbectcn to say, (this staternent is go- University of Ve1 m0'lt eleven rt l ) 'f th · !..;uJ•J.i.ng Saturday by a 19-'6 score .. ing to start e you l · · ey wm Tho Dutchmen came: from be- the next four games, they hind in the second haJ:f to push will! That \if\ is a big one. tlnee touchdowns across the Lata- mountG. gcal line. Vermont tallied •.. This Saturday the R. P. I. in tnr, >'econt\ period. Captain Han~­ Eng-ineers invade the campus. mer strom out-gained the entire G1 een and Gol'd backfi~ld, I unning after having won three games the ball fo1 177 ymd;; while t11e and lost one. Regardless of Vc:·rr.ont quat tet was (mly able to pick up 56 yarCs. His passe:; net- the records, R. P. l. is usually ted 64 yatds to Vetmont's 62. a spirited team when it meets After a lirst pelicd in which the the Dutchmen, whether it has Dutchmen outplayed the Green and Gold by sc01 ing three fit st downs a good record previous to the to one, Vermont took the baH on Union contest or not _ and its o\·m -18 on a !hst down. An end run by Kodys gained nine yards Cross-Country T earn Defeats Middlebury For First Victory Co-captain Paul Santoro paced his vat sity cross·-country team to its fir;;t victc.ry Saturday by mak- ing the second fastest time ever turned in on the 4.2 Middlebury College course as the Dutchmen conquered a weak Midd-lebury team, l'i'-38. \We're getting bette!' every meet,\ said Coach Bill Ketz, com- menting on his team's first succesc; of 1939. He pointed out that the team was showing better balance than it. did against Vermont and N. Y. C. in lo~ing the first two meet.'. Only two minutes and 33 seconds sepa1ated Santoro and the last th·ree Unicm men, Jack Pear- son, DoR Collins, and Dick Conly. who tied for sixth place. Middlebury Runner Fourth this year it has a good record! and ~. fOl ward pass from Taylor to Coach \Duke\ Nelson was on Corbett w~.s good for 37 yards tak- ing the Vetn.onte:s to the Union the campus Saturday and ex- five-yai d line. In four plays, the d h d · f t' · Vermont team could not gain four presse t e es1re or a 1e 111 yards, so Union tcok the ball and Captain Hammer-strom crashes off tackle for a seventeen yard gain in the game between Union and· Vermont. Bothwell. (74) is comin,g up to bluck out Kodys (56) of Vermont, allowing Hammerstrom to picl\. up twelve more yards after he has pulled five ;yards away from scrimmage. Only one Middlebury man. Bob Post, '40, finished in the first five and he led \Doc\ Maines, Union's fourth man, by just 25 seconds. Seven Union men finished in the first eight and since Ketz only had seven running, Middlebury grabbed ninth, and tenth positions. R. P. I. will be the next opponent for the Ketzmen, who will be out to avenge last year's three point Engineer triumph which eventua:lly became the only blemish on an otherwise perfect season. Coach Bill Eddy still has Vic Head, who took first against the Dutchmen at Troy last fall when Santoro was ineligible. the battle Saturday, because Harnmetstt·om .punted out of dan- -l\hoto by Bob Allan, 'H, L'nio11 CoJlege :->ewR Hun·au he doesn't want Nels to beat ger to the 35, Taylor running the ball back 13 yards. Taylor faked a him, nor does he want to beat pass and gained two yards around N 1 Th , · t l'l the end. A 13 yard pass from Tay- e S. lS IS a spor small n:e lo•· to Spasyk gave the CatamountH Middlebury Tops Freshman Eleven attitude, Duke, but the Rens- a first down on. the Union seven selaer administration is not yard line. Taylor attempted to crash through right tackle but The M i d d 1 e burY freshmen. paying you to get ties; it Kluge nailed him for a three yar-1 avenged in part the defeat of their wants victories! loss. Interference with the receiver varsity last week when they sue- was called by the referee on Union cessfully defended a large first- It is by far the biggest and Vermont was given the ball on half lead to defeat the freshman the Union one-half yard line. eleven 26-6 on the Middlebury game of the year, and each Kcdys then plunged for the score. campus Saturday. Union student is anxiously Taylor's kick for the extra point Throughout the first half, the was wide. Union dominated the faster char·ging Middlebury line awaiting the kick-off at two play during the rest of the peiiod, completely stalled the Union at- o'clock Saturday afternoon. but could get no nearer than 33 tack, keeping the play almost en- According to the advance sale yards fl'Om the Vermont line. tirely in Union territory and pel'- Vannier Runs 60 Yards rnitting Middlebury to score 20 of tickets, it seems that R.P.I. points. As the second half pro- It was a determined Union team gressed, however, the Dutchmen students do not differ very which took the field at the start of speeded up their line play until much from the Union boys, the third period. Hammerstrom re- in the fourth quarter they were d h h turned the kickoff to the Union fighting the Blue and White on because alrea Y t ey ave 35, and gained five yards in twc even terms. purchased 500 tickets and orr-tackle play. Jack Vannier, left Union received the opening kick- they ordered 100 more yester- halfback, went through tackle and ofi and failed to gain in three cut to his left to run 60 yards for plays. Wikoff's kick was blocked, day afternoon. , .• It should the !hst Ga111et score. A pass from setting the stage for Porter's b l f 1 d l f . 1 Hammerstrom, intended for Nor· touchdown plunge two plays later e a co or u crow , a co or U .,. 18 · , w~~ 1·nte1·cepted by Pye, Ver- ~ Adsit missed the attempt for the game, the renewal of a color- mont right half, leaving the score extra point, and three minutes aft. ful rivalry which extends over tied, 6 to 6. er the kickoff the score was 6-0 After the kick-off Vermont gain- against them. Before the period 53 years, and a colorful feel- ed only eight yards in three plays, was over, Potter bad scored again, ing between two coaches-- so Quarter back Spasky kicked thls time on a ten yard run from his own 26. The punt waA through guard. Porter passed to Nels of Union and Nelson of touched by <I Union player and Berna!d for the extra point, Ber- R. P. I. Because there will be rolled to the Dutchmen's 20 wherE nard having shifted from center a Vermont player recovered. Tay- to end for the play. Middlebury enough color at the game Sat- lor only picked up one yard in continued to dominate the play in urday, let us hope that no ma- two plays, and two forwards were the second period, Colonna scoring T incomplete, so Union gained pas- from deep in Union territory on a rauding parties go to roy sesion on its own 19. vannier fail- reverse to the left. Porter place Saturday night to do damage ed to gain through tackle, but on kicked the extra point. INTRAMURAL$ Fall Tennis The third round of the fal'l ten- nis tournament must be completed by Wednesday, October 25. The fourth round must be completed by Friday, October 27. Fall Track Meet The second half of the fall track meet will be held on Wednesday, October 25, at 4 p. m. The events will be 100-yard dash, 88Q-yard re- lay, high jump and javalin throw. Football Field Meet The football field meet will be held on Thursday and Friday, Octo- ber 26 and 27. A full program will be run on both days. The events are as follows: Punt- ing for distance (sum distance of three punts), place kicking for dis- tance <sum distance of three kicks), passing for distance (sum distance of three passes>, punting for accuracy <smallest yardage from goal line for three kicks) and place kicking or drop kicking for goals. Bowling Bowling entries should be hand- ed to Mr. Ketz. Quigley ran back the k~ck to Union's 28. The Garnet marched to Middlebmy's 45 where they lost the ball on an intercepted pass, and the game ended without furth- er score. The summaries: Union Pos. Middlebmy Santee ..... · .. EE ......... Lear to the Institute campus, be- the same play Hammerstrom \'ent Held Even in Third Period 36 yards to the Vermont 45. In 12 cause any damage incurred plays, including three first downs, The Gamet held Middlebury on the Garnet went to the Vermont mm o even terms in the third pe- Slingerland . . TT ......... Jefts Field . . . . . . . . . GG . . . . Gingesser must be paid for by the Union 25, when e. fumble gave the ball to riod. Halfway through the period, athletic department. Ve1 mont. A 90 yard punt by Booth caught a pass on the Unicn Spasyk put the Dutchmen deep in '35 and ran the remaining distance Jones . . . . . . . . C, ...... , Bernard May . . . . . . . . . RG . . . . . . . Brown Howe ........ RT . . . . . . . . Jones TUESDAY QUARTERBACK by Fry Day The downfield blocking and the hard running of the backs in the second half played the biggest part in winning the Vermont game. If the team shows the same type of play in the four remaining battles, there will be many more touch- downs, and those are the things for which they pay off. * * * The spirited showing of convert- ed center, Bob Baker, cheered Coach Nitchman. The eleven now has three fme line backers. * * * The coaching staff had more on The harriers are concentrating on winning from the Trojans above all this fall's opponents and will drill hard this week. Ketz started them out yesterday afternoon with their usual hard Monday drill of six miles. The order of finish: 1. Santoro, Union, 23:44. 2. Johnson, Union, 25:06. 2. Melewicz, Union, 25:06. 4. Post, Middlebury, 25:34. 5. Maines, Union, 25:59. 6. Pearson, Union, 26:28. 6. Collins, Union, 26:28. 6. Conly, Union, 26:28. 9. Schlieder, Middlebury, 26:48. 10. Butler, Middlebury, 27:30. 10. Capt. Mercme, Middlebury, 27:30. its mind over the weekend than merely beating Vermont. With Duke Nelson, formerly of Union, guiding the Engineers of R. P. I., Coach Nitchman and staff have found it necessary to add several plays to the Garnet's repertoire because of the opposition's fa- miliarity with the style of play. 12. Hasbrouck, Middlebury, 28:00. Several important blocking assign- 13. Stanlis, Middlebury, 28:15. ments on key plays have been 14. Flanders, Middlebury, 28:34. <:hanged. Coach Nitchman consid-J15. Swope, Middlebury, 29:12. ers the game so important_ that 16 . Smith Middl bur 30:56 he broke precedent by callmg a ' _ . e y, · Monday practice to outline the new 17. Root, Middlebury, 33:58. plays and assignments to the 18. Clark, Middlebury, cut course. squad, * * * The Vermont hotel management in Burlington commented on the Union players, who bunked in that hostel Friday night, in a very com- plimentary manner. \Nicest bunch of boys who have stayed her,\ Manager Glenn was told. * * • Vermont laid on the rough stuff Freeman's High Quality WALLPAPER PAINT GLASS Extraneous their own territory and at the ·to the goal line. Poi ter missed the end or the third quarter, Union attempted place kick for the extra Anyone who watched the was on its own 34. point. cross-country practice yester- Early in the last period the In the fourth period, after a punt · Dutchmc:-1 completed a 57 yard C}:chango had given Union the ball day afternoon could have seen d1 ive which resulted in a score on it,; own 20. Quigley ran 25 yards a pre-view of the RPI-Union when Hamme~ st om went thtough to the Union 45. Green then passed guard fm· the frnal yard. Hammer- to LeRoy, who was finally tackled LeRoy . . . . . . . RE . . . . . . Ericson Sharpe . . . . . . . QB . . . . . . Colonna Quigley . . . . . . l..H . . . . . . . . Booth Wikoff . . . . . . . RH . . . . . . . . Adsit pretty heavily throughout the game, although the Dutchmen didn't point for Taylor, Vermont's stellar attraction, who gained ex- catly eleven yards from scrimmage during the whole afternoon. Once, when sevetal Catamounts piled up J on Hammel strom near the Union For Past 142 Years Freeman & Son. Incorporated Phone 4-9155 12-20 Erie Blvd. Green ....... . FB . . . . . . . Porter Scoro by Periods: (Continued on Page 4) run, because the Cherry and sHorn, on tackle plays and for·wazd inside the Middlebury 12. Green White harriers were over in- passe::; to Bob Davis, substitute then passed to Wikoff en the one end, and Jack Vannier accounted yard line. After an unsuccessful Union ........... . Middlebury ..... . 0 0 0 6- 6 13 7 6 0-26 specting the Union course ... 0 for 36 of the 57 yards. Lee Sher- plungs and two incomplete passes, ..• One of the most peculiar man's attempt to convm t f10m Quigley took the ball around right placement was partially blocl{ed, end and dived ever for the touch- plays of the Vermont game leavin£: tho Dutchmen ahead, 12 down. Wikoff's place kick was was Captain Pyes' one hun- t:> 6. wide, and the score remained 26-6. Vermont had the ball for three Middlebury chose to kick off, and dred yard dash after he inter- plays after the kickoff when Bob cepted an attempted Union Baker, substitute center, intercept- ed a Vermont pass en the mid- pass for conversion •. • field stripe. Baker rP.n the ball 15 Burt Brittin, '40, former cap- yards before he was tackled. From the Vermont 35, the Dutchmen tain of swimming, is now in started the drive for the last touch- Ellis hospital and taking dov·n. Hammerstrom went through center for eight yards and Van- treatments to stop hemor- <Continued on Page 4) rhages from two wisdom teeth he had extracted re- cently. Rapid recovery, Burt! ... Trinity is also still unde~ feated, having subdued Ho- bart last Saturday, 13 to 0. The four remaining Union op- ponents fared as follows Sat- urday: Williams 0, Bowdoin 0; RPI 12, Coast Guard, 6; Amherst 32, Rochester, 0, and Hamilton 0, Oberlin, 6. PHONE 4-5614 Eve1·ything Electrical JAS. F. BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. Sch'dy, N.Y. SUITS Cleaned-Pressed TWO SUITS Cleaned and Pressed B~:: 93c: Call for and Deliver \For Students Who Care\ 12 Elm St. Phone 3-1775 Substitutions: Union - Berger Hochuil, Adamzevich, G i I more , England, Hoffman, Coppola. Mid- dlebury-Kelley, Tupper, Wittland, Poole, Barclay, Zollner, Walker, Bosworth. At your favorite SODA FOUNTAIN Fro-Joy ICE CREAM Sealtest-Approved BUY IT BY THE QUART Schenectady Engraving Co. 147 JAY STREET ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORDIENSIS Gazette Press Printers

Page Four Varsity I opples Vermont Eleven Hammerstrom, Vannier Star in Garnet Win To Remain Undefeated (Continued from Page 3) nier around end for two and a first down. Hammerstrom tcok the ball on the next four plays, taking the ball 11 yards to the 14. Bob Killian went through tackle fo1 ten yards, and Sherry Hillick went at•ound left end for the third and last Union touchdown. Bob Davis converted from placement. Davis kicked off for Union and Taylo1 brought ball back 15 yards as the game ended. Coach Nelson Nitchman used all 28 men who made the trip, sub- 8tituting with fuH teams frequent- ly. Union outplayed Vermont, mak- ing 17 first downs to 5 and gain- ing 301 yards rushing to Vermont's 56, and 71 yards passing to the Green and Gold's 62. The Garnet forward wall, led by l3ob and Wally Baker, played well, as is indicated by the fact that the Vermont backs were held to 56 yards by running the ball. Frank Taylor, triple-threat star, was held to 17 yards. The summaries: Union (19) Pos. Ve-rmont (6) Bothwell . . . . . LE . . . . . . Corbett W.Baker ..... LT ...... Carlson Kearns . . . . . . . LG . . . . . . . . Dubie Molloy . . . . . . . C. . . . . . . . . . . Reed Krull . . . . . . . . RG . . . . . . Nichols Kluge ........ R T . . . . Lawrence Guibert ...... RE ..... Paterson Balch . . . . . . . . Q B . . . . . . . Spasyk Vannier ...... LH ....... Taylor Norris . . . . . . . RH . . . . . . . . . . Pye Hammerstrom FB . . . . . . . Kodys Score by Periods: UNION . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 13 6-19 VERMONT . . . . . . 0 6 6 0 - 6 Touchdowns: Kodys, Vannier, Hammerstrom, Hillick. Points aft- er touchdown: Davis \from place- ment). Substitutions: Union - Hallen beck, R. Baker, Burns, Da.vis, Reynold:>, Griffith, Hillick, Killtan, L>\Iln Enstice. Goldblatt, Marotta, Sherman, Friedman, Eisnel', and \Veintraub. Vermont - Broustas. White, Shay, Flynn, Rice and Long. The Unhealthy Animal II It was a fairly quiet week-end on the campus. With football, danc- ing, and general get to traveling. few remained in the near vicinity. General get to traveling was fair- ly successful, dancing very stuffy, and football a huge success. It seems in Burlington the stu- dents believe in 1 alhes to fan the fit es ot school spirit. It's too bad, but when the coach climbed through the crowds, the bonfire \'as in embers. Some culpl'it had lit the blaze to be, and he doesn't attend classes in Vermont. The atternoun of the game in ,;pile of what you here. 30 of the boys flom Schenectady, outyelle!. 300 from Vermont. If you have doubts, as!;: Nitch or the boys that p.a~ed. Still in the spirit of good fun. winning football games, etc. Sat- urday night Father Reilly was very vociferously serenaded with the sweet strains of \The Pig Got Up and Slowly Walked Away.\ Loud and long have been the la- ments for the Union Inn. The grand old seat of stone has be- come a wailing wall. Saturday night young men were seen wallr- ing aimlessly about the streets of Schenectady--where to go? The wise-achers blame it on U-boat 29 about to make its appearance in Proctor's this week-sorta like a publicity stunt. The1 e even have been insinuat- ing remarks that the pipes blew up. Tony rests quietly in jail- something about having a gun on the premises unla\''fully. -T.B. \'What's new, we show\ Famous Make SHIRTS $1.55 Values $1~09 Hand Tailored TIES 65c Values 44c SNAPPY MEN'S SHOP 179 JAY ST. THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1939 Tuesday Quarterback <Continued from Page 31 bench, Coach Nitchman comment- ed· saracastically. One of the Ver- mont tacltler.:; tumed about anc.l yelled to the Union coach, \Vvha do you think this is? Touch feat- ball?\ Nevertheless, we've alwap. been told that the team that scores the highest number of points wins, so where does it all get you? .... Captain Sam, a:oide from playing a bang-up game, smilingly helped up Vermont tacklers after he had been hit. Theie wer·e usually seven or eight of them on top before the whistle pealed. . . .. The cheering of the thil ty or so Union rooters at Burlington all but drowned out the yells of the thousand\ of Vermont fans. * * * The boys who were getting theil scores by radio nearly had heart failur·e when the announcer, who had been naming winning teams first suddenly said, \Vermont- six\ · t hol'l'ible silence) \Union- nineteen.\ * * * Union tried a little of Dt·. Ligon's applied psychology in the Vermont battle. Whenever Taylor, who plays at one time or ancthet· every po- sition in the backfield, would change his post, the Garnet, to the last man, would shout \Taylor in the wing back\ or \Taylor in the fullback,\ as the case might ·be. Probably made the Catamount star a mite uncomfot table. --- 0 ~-· ·~· Friday Chapel Program Prot•es Most Popular <Continued from Page ll stories uf the junior wandering around with a maximum of 15 bolts per semester t·esting heavily on his shoulders, or that of would be· graduate of last year's senior c!aS>s who is now wrlting :1 three thousand-word theme on the Bible as a gradu<tt!on tequilement ... all because of violation of cla.use 2, page 68 of the 'Union College Catalogue. C. S. M 0 0 D Y Optometrist Eyes Examined, Glasses Fitted 115 B'way Telephone 6-5747 Three Doors from StatP St. Pil·ot Training Authorized Here Fox Names Wold fo Head Ground School'; Scholarships Offered (Continued from Page 1) course and the flight•training course. The only fee to the stu- dents awarded scholarships will be a fee, not to exceed $40, which is to cover the expenses of insur- ance hospitalization, medical ex- aminations and such other inciden- tal expenses as may be incurred by the college. Each student will be covered by a $3,000 life insurance policy and $500 hospitalization in- surance. In addition, the airport \\ill take out adequate insurance to cover any possible damag-e caused by student-operators during their flight-training program. Last year when the Civil Aerau- notics Authority inaugurated its Civilian Pilot Training Program, 300 students took the course and there was only one accident, a stu- dent w:.1s fatally hurt while motor- ing to the airport to take a lesson, Dr. Wold said. In addition to the scholarship and extra-curricular eligibility rules announced lust wee!>: by Dean Charles F. F. Garis, applicants for the C.A.A. scholarships are re- quired to pass a physical examina- tion and to obtain the consent of his parents or guardians. Applicants for the C.A.A. scholar- ships may be obtained either from Dean Garis or from Dr. Wold who will be in his office in the Physics Laboratory tomor- row after noon and evening to con- fer with any students who desire to discuss application for one of the scholarships or to prepare a formal application. While assignment of definite class hours in the grounds school will be made only after the class is registered and the convenience of the students is consulted, it is planned to hold the school on two · nights each week for 18 weeks. SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Quality Food-~-Always Open One step from State St. ~~~-----g-·=~~~ Interested in Schenectady Interested in UNION MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Street Jeweler 166 Jay St. Watch and Jewelry Repairing a Specialty PARKER and WATERMAN PENS Unquestionably Favored! ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BELLEVUE DAIRY PHONE 4-2553 CLOVERLAND CREAMERY r:or Prompt Service MILK - BUTTER EGGS - CHEESE - ICE CREAM Phone 6·81 04 919 State St. 'blue' COAL FUEL OIL • SEEDS • ~i'!RTILIZERS HIRAM J. McKA~N COMPANY 306-314 Union St. Phone 4·4448 Watch and Jewelry Repairing Engraving JAY JEWELRY CO. COR. STATE and CENTER STS. * Joseph F. Connelly for Mayor of Schenectady DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE John Giles Improving; Asks for Books to Study Yesterday for the first time John A. GHes, Beta Theta Pi's freshman scarlet fever victim, asked fer his :books. This has :been taken as an excellent sign that he is feeling better. Giles was taken sick on Octo- ber 13, when he was taken to Ellis Hospital. The Beta house was quarantined for the next two weelrs. Although Giles' temperature has been very high for the past two weeks, it is steadily decreas- ing. According t0 the members : of his fraternity, he should be back .in classes in two weeks. Newman Club to Hear Father Slavin T onigh+ Freshman CheeriFig Squad Reserves Special Section Seventy seats have been set aside Tho Union CoUe6·e Newman Club . for the use of the freshman cheer- will hold its second meeting- of the ing squad during the R. P. I. game · current year tonight !lit 7:30 in this saturday, according ta Bruce · Sil1iman Hal!. Father Slavin, chap- May, president 0 f the freshman Jain of the R. P. I. Newman Club, class. Park Branson and Robert speaker of the evening, will give a Gillie will lead the cheering, It was talk on \A Just War.\ announced. At this meeting a question box The freshman cheering squad is will be inaugurated. QUestions on. the result of an attempt by the · the discussion or any other topic Student · CouncH t0 provide more ' wHI ):Je answered by either Fathet· cheering at the freshmaR games. Slavin or Father Finn, chaplain of The freshmen will also cheer as a tho club. unit during the varsity game. This year the club has switched o--- to bi-monthly•meetings rather than the customary monthly meetings. The members of the club have vcted for and planned an exten- s:vo social program, NOTICE The lntemational Relations Club will meet Wednesday at 2 o'clock in Silliman Hall. ~CCO .. opens Doors to Fields where People Live, Work & Achieve Today there are about 1,000,000 cigar stores, drug stores, country and grocery stores where you can buy cigarettes in the United States. These re· tailers, and the jobbers who serve them, have built up a service of courtesy and convenience unmatched by any other industry catering to the American public's pleasure. THERE ARE ANOTHER MILLION people who are engaged directly or indirectly in the transportation of cigarettes to every town, hamlet and crossroads. IT IS ESTIMATED that there are 1,602,000 tobacco farmers raising tobacco in 20 out of the 48 states. Good tobacco is one of the hardest crops to raise and bring to market, 1·equiring great skill and patience from seed-bed planting to harvesting and cur· ing. The modern tobacco farmer has done well the job of constantly improving the quality of his product. THE AVERAGE LENGTH of service of the 13,230 people working in the Chesterfield factories, storage houses, leaf-handling and redrying plants is over 10 years. This means that every step in the making of Chesterfields, regardless of how small, is handled by peo· ple who have had 10 years of experience and ability in knowing their jobs. TRULY TOBACCO OPENS DOORS to fields where people live, work and achieve, and Chesterfield takes pride in its ever increasing part in this great industry that is devoted entirely to the pleasure of the American public. To S M 0 K E R S, Chesterfield Cigarettes have always said, and now repeat, that in no other cigm·atte made can you find the same degree of real mildness and good taste, or the same high quality of properly cured and aged tobaccos. Chesterfield Cigarettes are made with one purpose only ... to give smokers everywhere the MILDER, BETTER-TASTING SMOKING PLEA· SURE they want. You can't buy a better cigarette. ?? CHESTERFIELD f MAKE YOUR NEXT Copyright 1939, LIGGETT & MYllRS ToBACCO Co. -·- Z-l: VoJ J!'j ten~ will tom eng net T stuc be, the the be beg fl'N tior u teat last be ed Vic vcr tle wa: tur tor: 'I try pre sqt wit cor Hi! f fre bri gal an• in '( gir Du COl be( sio wt tht an th• no re• th he gil th th co wi to w; ce m ~ .'f' i m I fe ' i' bE w u f~ a u in u C! vi it ir w g v it \' a a 'l t: t: t t• t b f e t s f

d aside heer- an obert was is the more as a Club clock • • trnsts Her.man Prom System Broadcast Change Announced Proposed Z-511 -~~~~-- PRICE FIVE CENTS UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1939 Vol. LXIII., No. 12 Union- R. P. I. Meet I in Four Herman's Music to Be Broadcast Direct From Interfraternity Ball Phi Beta Kappa Initiates Hear Dr. Frank Graves Dupre Concert Nets $191 T ozmrd Fund The Glee club netted $191.21 on its Dupre concert and this sum will probably be increased when complete returns from the members selling tickets are known, Leonard Bull, '40, man- ager, announced today. R. P.l. Vandalism Deplored By Fox In Chapel Talk I The committee in charge of the~·------~~-----­ Contests H e~re Varsity FootbaH To Highlight Day Of Sports Events J:t'our contests, played in the in- tense rival·ry usua-l to the occasiun, will take place on Alexander Field tomorrow afternmm between the engineers of R. P. I. and the gar·- net of Union. The main event of the day to the student bodies of both schools will be, of course, the 38th rene,.val of the annual gridiron battle between the colleges. The varsity game will be pt·eceded by a football game, beginning at noon, between the fl·eshman teams of each institu- tion. Union's varsity cross - country team, bolstered up by its victory last Saturday over Middlebury, will be out to avenge the defeat hand- ed them last year by the Eddymen. Vic Head and Paul Santoro will very like•ly provide the main bat tie of this contest since Santoro was the winner of the Middlebury tun and Head led R. P. I. to vic- tory last Saturday ovet· Colgate. Interfraternity Ball which will be held on Nov, mber 10, has an- nounced that the music of Woody Het·man and his orchestra will be btoadcast from the Alumni Gym- nasium over WGY and the Red Network of the National Broadcast- ing Company. George MiHer, '40, chait man of the committee, also announced that a photographer from Life Magazine has been in- vited to the dance. The theme of the decorations for the affair will be \Dancing in the Clouds.\ The ceiling and walls will be draped with blue super- imposed with stars and cloud ef- fects. The predominating color is in keeping with the many \blues\ songs wr.itten by Herman. The or- chestra itself will be seated amidst larger white clouds against a blue starlit sky. The illumination will be furnished by large blue-starred lanterns and revolving colored lights. The drawing for fraternity booths v.'ill be held Monday eve- ning at 7:30 at the Interfraternity Council meeting in the Student Ac- tivities Office. The committee has announced that a booth at the north end of the gym will be re- served for non-fraternity men. Dance V oculist MARY ANNE McCALL Traces Development Of Honorary Society Since Establishment Dr. Frank P. Graves. President of the University of the State of New York and Commissioner of Education, spoke on the past, pres- ent and future of the Phi Beta Kappa Society. at the formal ini- tiation ceremonies for nine Union undet graduates and one alumni membet· Wednesday night in Hale House. Dr. Graves, who is president of the United Chapters of the Phi Beta Kappa traced the development of the Society which was founded in 1776. \The first important change,\ he said, \took place in 1831, when the feature of secrecy began to be abandoned and Phi Beta Kappa came to be a real 'honor' society.\ The entire proceeds will be applied toward the purchase of the new piano in the Memorial Chapel. he said. A total of $543.50 was collect- ed from the sale of tickets at the door and at branch box of- fices. Out of this sum the spe- cial fee to Marcel Dupre, nE'ws- paper advertising, printed pub- licity, tickets and programs were paid. ·Union Alumni Widely Scattered ,Over Globe President Terms Incident 'Distressing~' Cancels Rally The generous smeat ing of quick· drying bright red enamel paint over the John Howard Payne gate- way, erected by Union College in memory ot the author of \Home Sweet Home,\ by R. P. I. student:> early t hi:> mot ning as well as the painting of the R. P. I. initia.ls on the Alexandet· Field Pt ess Box and I cad ways was deplm E'd \not in t c- sentment but in sadness\ by Presi- dent Dixon Ryan Fox in addn-'SL- ing the entire student body in tre Memorial Chapel today. Dr. Fox a.sked the student,; to call off their scheduled \pep\ rally which wa<~ to have taken place to- night, the eve of the 38th football gam<:', in the 53 year series, with R. P. L He explained that he wisher.! to furnish no excuse to any \emo-tionally unstable\ students to <rganizo any com.parable retalia- tot y measut es against R. P. I.'s buildings. The R. P. I. freshman cross coun- try team should, on the basis of previous records, defeat the Union squad since the former boast two wins while Union has lost their one contest so far to the Nott Terrace High School team. Prospects for a Union victory in ft·eshman football are none too bright, since they have lost both games played so far this season, and R. P. I. is confident of victory in this department. Invitations have been sent to the faculty and to members of the football team. The committee also indicated that plans for a beauty contest are being considered. The sale of tickets for the dance ha.o been described by the commit- tee as \good.\ Tickets may be pur- chased at the bookstore, the cam- pus barber shop, and from the fol- lowing committee members: George Miller, Foster Brown, Bill Witbeck, John Cone, Robert Hanson, and Dave Hayner. Any house having sold tickets to three-fourths of its members by November 3 will be entitled to a free ticket for its chaperones. The price of tickets will be raised to four dollars on Monday, November 6. The undergraduates who were formally initiated into the frater- nity last night were: Edwin A. Fitz, jr., William S. Tosh, Z. Peter Grabicki. Robert R. Eisner, Harry G. Silleck, Donald J. Wait, Quintin P. Cole, Marvin Lazarus and Alex- ander H. Cornell. Initiated as an alumnus member was Charles Al- bert Brind, '19. Dr. George H. Danton, chairman of the field of modern languages, and president of the Alpha Chap- ter of New York founded at Union in 1817, performed the formal cere- monies. Following Dr. Graves' ad- dtess, Professor Morton C. Stew- art, secretary of the Union Chapter, traced the foundation of the Upper Hudson Association of Phi Beta Kappa. Scattered throughout every por- tion of the globe today are exact- ly six thousand, three hundred ana fifty five men who bear the stamp \Union men,'' Dr. Waldron tolct THE CONCORDIENSIS today. In- cluded among this total are men from also every walk of life. Oldest alumnus now living is cen- tenarian Edward Auten of the class of 1862 who received his diploma from Eliphalet Nott while the Civil War was yet young. A living link back to the days when Union wa& the largest college in the land, Mr. Auen, now retired and bedridden, went on to take Master of Arts and Bachelor of Laws degrees aft- er receiving his B. A. from Union. Still neither too old nor too feeble to forget his alma mater, each yeat his daughters send the college peo- nies, Mr. Auten's favorite flower, at the request of their aged fathet'. The peonies have been turned ovet to Mrs. Fox who planted them in Jacksons Gardens where their bright living colors are a reminder of the 101-year-old Union graduate. Profe~sor Antilony H o ad l e y, comptroller of the college who also is in charge of maintenance of the physical plant, said that although the college gtound:> crew had beea at wotk with paint temovers for many hcur~. it was doubtful if the deep ,;tain in the porous limc- :;tone wtll be completely removerl. Supetintendent Samuel Johnson's paint removal procedure is bein•r advised by the college Chemistr~ De pat tment, but it was pointed out that although Columbia University had ,;pent thousands of d::Jl!an; in attempting to remove paint stains from one of their limestone build- ings, these ,;tains ate still conspic- uous. Union holds a comfortable mar- gin in the varsity grid series, the Dutchmen having won 27 of the 38 contests while the E..ngineers have been victorious on but five occa- sions, the last time being in 1933 when the Garnet was drubbed to the tune of 16-0. Trojans Inspired Since previous records usually amount to nothing in forecasting the results of this game, Union is not counting too heavily on their record of an undefeated season and the consequent fact that they are heavy favoritt>s to defeat the en- gineers. Added to this is the fact that Union is the chief target of the R. P. I. football campaign and consequently Coach Nelson's boys will be in high spirits. In response to queries regarding tomorrow's game, the four men who are perhaps most vitally con- cerned, replied in a spirit of opti- mism: George Shako sent the following message: \There have been very few years that the R.P.I. team has been able to face the Union game with such optimism. We admit Union has had a good season so f::~r-we even admit that they have a good team. but we won't admit that they can't be beaten. It's go- ing to be a great game and may the better team win.\ Duke Nelson: \Any good team can be beaten by a poor team, pro- viding, of course, the breaks go its way. All the kids over here are in very high spirit for the game. which, I am sure, will be a good game and a clean game. We will be very weak in reserve strength, and it will be a good game as long as v. ~ can hold out. You can tell Nels and the boys that I'll be moaning all during the game and call them ·bandits and Jug-heads' as I did for three years.\ Executive Body Favors Change In Prom System Favors Appointments Rather Than Elections For Prom Committee The possibility that the Junior Prom committee may become an appointed rather than an elected body, as has been the case in pre- vious years, was advanced on Wednesday when the executive committee of the Student Council went on record as being in favor of an appointed committee. The plan adopted by the commit- tee, which will be brought before the Student Council meeting for further consideration, on Wednes- day, calls for the appointment of a list of candidates by the President of the Junior Class and by the President of the Council. The exec- utive committee of the Student Council will make the ultimate choice of the committee from this list of candidates under the pro- posed art'angemefit. The committee voted ,sanction of a pep rally tonight in conjunc- tion with the R. P. I. football game tomorrow. Freshmen, it was decid- ed, will be dressed in pajamas for the rally. Hockey Rink unsatisfadory The committee went on record as being in favor of sending a dele- gate to discuss with Professor Witt- ner the possibility of holding hockey games and practices on flooded tennis courts, as was the practice before the rink was built on Hans Groot's Kill. It was point- ed out that the present rink is un- satisfactory in several respects and that it had no facilities for illumi- nation, whereas the tennis courts are equipped with flood-lighting equipment. Glee Club to Sing In Albany Concert The 'Gnion College Glee Club will inaugurate its series of concerts for the current year with a perform- ance at the Albany Academy for Girls tonight at 8 o'clock. R. Leon- at·d Bull, student manager of the Glee Club, announced yesterday that 30 members of the organiza- tion have been selected for this first concert, and that the bus will leave for Albany from the Me- morial Chapel at 7:15 p. m. The program for the evening will begin with a group of songs by the Glee Club, after which the Girls Academy Chorus will sing several selections. The Union sing- ers will offer first the humorous song, Swansea Town, followed by Dream World. The anthem, Jeru- salem, based on lyrics by William Blake, will close the group. The men chosen from the Glee Club to make the trip are as fol- lows: First Tenors-L. Bull, R. Coggershall, F. Coward, P. Mar- shal.!, K. MacKenzie, B. Hastings, B. Guiles, and R. Horton; Second Tenors-J·. Wright, D. Hayner, P. Thomson, E. Bodenstab, R. Fre- lick, A. La Roche, and E. Fliegel; Baritones-P. Best, C. Guiles, W. Thiessen, T. Dempster, D. Holmes, R. Trimpi, J. Stillman, L. Dean: Basses-R. Forrest, J. Jaycox, E. Miller, A. Morrison, W. Raymond, F. Brand, and A. Beer. ----o-~-- Tidmarsh to Feature Familiar Music Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh will play a program, this Sunday, consisting entirely of selections of familiar music. Featured at the recital, which will start at 4 o'clock in Memorial Chapel, will be the works of Wagner, Beethoven, Reynolds, Sullivan and Saint-Saens. The works of Wagner will all be taken from Tannhauser. The program: Adagio Sostenuto from the Moonlight Sonata- Bee- thoven. Adagio Cantabile-Beethoven. After tracing the formation and growth of the society Dr. Graves continued, \Affiliated with Phi Beta Kappa have been a dozen presidents of the United States, to- gether with hundreds of others prominent as cabinet members, diplomats, congressmen, and sen- atm·s. On its rolls have likewise appeared the names of 26 judges of the United States Supreme Court-five of them chief jusfices- while its legal lights in general in- clude such men as Kent, Story, Webster, and Rufus Cheats. In lit- erature the Society may claim George William Cm tis, Edward Everett Hale, Thomas Wentworth Higginson, and Hamilton W. Ma- bie ... \ Concerning the future of Phi Beta Kappa, Dr. Graves advised the members to promote the tradi- tions of sound scholarship and to strengthen the broad and liberal elements in American Education. In conclusion, the president said, \Evidently the difficulty and seri- ousness of Phi Beta Kappa prob- lems need to be fully recognized, and there should be no disposition to shirk thsi solution. A tremend- ous influence can be exercised by the membership of the Society, both individually and through chap- ters and associations, and Phi Beta Kappa can become more of a force in education than it has ever been.\ Remote Gr!!>duates Furthest geographically from Schenectady is Theodore D. Wal- ser·, '10, holding a Doctor of Divin- ity degree, who has been doing mis- sionary work in the interior of some of the barren islands of Ja- pan. Perhaps the most fat· reach- ing college tie is that which links James R. L. Embree, '16, and George L. Ryan, of the class of 1927, as far away as Monrovia, Li- beria, where both live. Member Embree of the little Union Alumni Club of Monrovia is a missionary and educational specialist, while Mr. Ryan is· on the staff of the Bank of Monrovia. In contrast to perhaps the smal- lest alumni group, honors between the largest seem evenly divided be- tween those from Schenectady, the remainder of the Capital District, and the metropolitan area of New Yorlr. There are, however, Union graduates in every state of the United States, as well as in Europe, Asia and Africa. College Blue Laws of Long Ago. Make Present Rulings Seem 'Tame' PrPvious Deprpdations Eight years ago, R. P. I. student,;; painted a large \R\ on the front of the Alur.,ni Gymnasium and on the ccl!'!en·t wall frontin);' the Psi Up:>ilon fratcl nit:y house. These stains have not yet been removed although every device known to ~cience has been used in a vain at- tempt to remove the \distressing and depressing\ stains. Union students wet e informed yesterday that R. P. I. students now considered their mascot, \Cholly a wooden horse, a \jinx\ as far as Unicn games were con- cerned and would therefore burn it tonight at a bonfit·e to propitiate the fates for tomorrow's game. Whether true or not, about a dozen Union students accepted the bait and went over to R. P. I. last nicrht to investigate. Strong groups o of R. P. I. students at each gateway at the Rensselaer campus con- fronted the Union \scout\ who also learned that the wooden horse was being carefully guarded. It was at this time, too, that the Union stu- dents learned that an R. P. I. car- avan of eight to ten cars had left for Schenectady with cans of paint. They telephoned this news to the \Concordiensis\ about 3 o'clock, the latter, in turn, relayed it to the local police who, however, when they arrived on the campus, found that the gates had already been painted. ---~0·---- Power of Advertising On the second floor of the library, • Topic of Chapel Speaker hidden away among the collection to whisper, talk, or make any inter- of beaks and articles dealing with ruption during the time of prayers, \Advertising is the voice of free the history of Union, is a small vol- or in going from the chapel. If competition which in turn i~ the ume that spelled grief to the Union 't 1 f f any student shall transgress in any vt a orce o progressive indus- men of old. The book is a collec- t \ of these respects, he shall be llable ry, Russell A. Ziegler, marketing tion of the laws of Union college to a fine not less than five cents, research expert and advertising from 1802 onward and if any mem- nor more than fifty, or to be cen- manager of the· Cluett, Peabody ber of the student body happens to sured before the college. If any and Company said yesterday in as- feel repressed by some restriction student shall absent himself from sembly. or othet• imposed by the adminis- prayers without liberty, or without Before advertising, the manufac- tration let him spend a moment assigning sufficient reasons, he turer should \go to the consumer perusing this memo of the \good shall be f_ined four cents for each with his problems and tr\ to fr'nd old days.\ \ offense, and half that sum for out from him just what he expect- II. Pilgrims Chor·us from Tann- hauser-Richard Wagner. F-or example, with the present tardiness. All the students are re- ed in a product,\ advised Mr. Zieg- controversy over Chapel raging quired to continue in the chapel un- ler relating how his company dis- discover what the law of 1802 said til all the exercises are performed, covered after the World War that, regarding this. and whether standing or sitting, to no matter how attractive an adver- Coach Nitchman: \We are not taking R.P.l. too lightly because they came back and scored three touchdowns against Trinity, after trailing 19 to 0, to show that they have a strong offensive team. The fact that their last three oppon- ents have scored no more than one touchdown each against them shows that they are also strong de- fensively. Another fact to be con- sidered is that R.P.I. is pointing for this game. and, as in the past 38 games, they will play above l'heir heads. The J:LP.I. game will be as stiff as any we will have all year.\ Captain Sam Hammerstrom said, \We defellted a strong offensive team last I week and tied another strong o.ff~hsive team in our sec- ond game.i According to R.P.I.'s record, it IS a strong offensive and defensive team. so they should be as good as, possibly better than. Vermont and Trinity. I, too, hope the better team wins!\ The Uniform key proposal, origi- nally advanced by The Concordien- sis, was approved by the comm;~tee, and it was decided that the group would take charge of the arrange- ments. Designs and price quo- ta-tions have been solicited from several jewelry firms. The propo- sal that Union adopt a system of uniform award keys was approved by a vote of 515 to 61 on the recent Concordiensis daily assembly poll. One of these companies has sub- mitted several designs for the pro- posed award using the Idol as a basis for the key. The distinguish- ing insets for the respective activ- ities would be placed in the base of the statue. To The Evening Star from Tannhauser-Wagner. Festival March from Tann- bauser-Wagner. III. Londonderry Air-Folk Song. Softly Now The Light of Day- Arranged by Reynolds. The Lost Chord-Sir Arthur Sullivan. IV. Danse Macabre-Camille Saint- Saens. \All students shall constantly at- l{eep their faces toward the pul- tisement might be, men would no tend morning and evening prayers, pit. Any student who shall vinlate longer wear stiff collars. at the hours appointed by the this .Jaw shall for every offense lJe In conclusion Mr. Ziegler said President, in the CoJ.lege chapel, to liable to a fine of four cents. Any \Business· becomes articulate which they shall immediately, on student who shall frequently be ab- thmugh advertising, and only by the ringing of the bell, repair in sent from or tardy at prayers, bhall this means is the public kept in- a decent and orderly manner. All be liable to public censure, or such formed of activities and achieve- the students are strlctly forbidden other punishment as shall be ments in the front lines of com- to run violently in the entries, or judged necessary.\ petitive business; consequently the down the stairs,. in going to attend The principles of religious toler- story of modern advertising is the prayers, or on any other occasion; (Continued on Page 4) story of industrial progress.\

. I Page Two TilE CONCORDlENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1939 ~P..,'?'-~ •T,;':!-; '--:.,·,n; Qlnntnr \\~r)\ ni~Ullt!i -which loss had to be borne by the student tax fund. The Concordiensis has long campaigned for an appointed committee, believing that \the method of choosing the men \Vho manage 1 the Prom has been largely responsible for : i. D~ar sit·:IN THE MAtti.-=\ =======ii\1 Nitchman, Team At the present moment, Union .i· .. ; ~ 0 ~~ s c R E EN . D- • db Alumnz· College has an excellent opportu- S:;===========! r 1atse · Y '' · .tj \'''·O'I·\>\'<JA b-v~~r Fol' !'llFll 1877 \.1 r:ausa Pow Pt~ru/,· .1ssai\ - ----------·------- --------- - ~\<ltllll•ll \1 tlll .\-.~ ..... :~tl l\•>lltt..:i.Lh Pt··~-, ;l]\.1 tll-..tl'lllllt'•ll 11f t11t' l 'ti'}, Cl.lt't• }l)~t\ . ..:.t~--­ -;;l'rl;:--1{1~-f.-,t-llt \\~~-, -:-,r-tlt~.--;rtrttt·ut:-. .,t l-:-or~ \'tol;t~• l 1 ul.lr~h •. \ Ttl~·;,\ .Litd Fntl:t\:-. tllloll~li- '1 .11 t l11• I tl'j. ~~- ~ V'll • - Ecllturinl ltoUJn,,- ::-;t.~l:m:-tu--llall.--ftduilG•lllh\-' l'.unpu-. Tt l•·phullt', :-..: ·h· It\ i'l,lt.y, 1-n}:::; i•u.Jl·i·t~a-Ot;Ji ()llit·t·. ·~~~~ ~~--;.-;, t--t·!.~:-::-t:~~·-t~-;-.:1 :--; lit I I 4 1' 1(]\ \\ y , 1\·lo•)', OlJl' ·1- 1111 E11tt r• d .1t tlw :-;, hl'aL 1 l.uiv l't1:-.t Ullit't• a~ St·t'l'lld ( 1.. ... :-:, ~.~ . .~: :\l;t Itt I' • ~~~~~ ... ,:, i 1 ;~-:-,-~f,pt ,;;.~~a-~~.--;: .- $:;-l'o;- ~-t·ar; 1kll\.t'lt'd :tll\\\ht•l!• 111 tl~t 4 l'Illll'd :-;t.tlt:-- S~>nior Hoard tilt'se (kfieits. Students an' electerl with no ; thDught as to their administrative ability Ol' :their previous expel'ience in mmmging a 1 dance. The sole cousdemlion appears to he · p:,pulnrit~·. :\l<'mhen; of the Junim· class haVL' lllL'r,·ly WL•ig-hecl the relatin> popularity of football players, basketball players, track men <tnd campus socialites and hnve named i theil· choices as a committee to manage a 181,000 venture. nity to advance its status as a pro- · gre:5sive instil ution. Mr. Edward L. Carroll retired last year as i-nstructor in the drama. Since his vacancy has not as yt•t bel'n tilled, it might be Wl'll to cun~iller choosin~ an instructor capab!C' of <'nlarging the drama cout·sc into a Radio Production Cuur:5e. Tlli:> would include training in the technique of writing plays, rauio announcing am! program ar· umging. in addition tn thP play production now being taugat. It would also provide actual expeti· cnce for those men intend.ing to use their musical, technical or lit- et·ary talent in their careers. Relax there, neighbor. Rooney· and Garland and assorted Babes in At·ms still have Proctor's well in hand. Tomonow, though, youth wiH bow out in dt>ference to a~e a,; Bl•tte Davi~. :\lit ialll Hupltin~. and (iPorge Brent anive in ThP Old .;Iaid. l'\ot lit<'Jally, of course. Advance infot·mation indicates that Davis and Bopltms have just what it talu•s to counteract the Pxcess acidity you may work up in thP cuut ~e of Cull 11 :!'llt•ssPngt'l', whiC'h unites for the first-time tand, may we hope, till' last> the ··Dead Bnd Kids\ with the \Littlr Tough Guys.\ Nothing like a successiul foot- bali team to ct·ystallize alumni sentimeRt. We were permitted to peek into \Hal\ Wittner's inc0m- ing lettet·s thi,; week and we were impressed with the enthusiastic comments ft·oa! our al1:1mni. Morris Gilbert, '17, foreign cor- respondent who is now with the New York vVorld Telegram volun- teet·ed he will be glad to pass on items about Sam Hammerstrom to spo1 ts eulumnists and adds \It's a p!E'asure to read Union football news these days, and we don't get enough of it here. , .. \ Ernest HoughtoR, '15. of Roches- ter writes \I think Nelson Nitch- maR has .done a swell jo:b with the football team. The thing that im- prcs>Oed me most was the splendid condition the boy.s were jn. I did not think it necessary, from a standpoint of fatigue, that any sl:lb- stitutions be made during· the en- tire afternoon.\ He also suggested that since there are going to be im- provements in the athletic fi'elds, that a section of permanent foot- ball stands for about 4,000 persons be so built that it would also serve as dormitories, similar to the stands just completed at the Uni- versity of Rochester. Lawt•ence V. l'ellettier, Jr ....... Editor-in-Chief 24 N. S. south College 6-9728 Ito bert R. Eisner ............ Busine~s Manager Kappa ::-::u House. 4-7331 ('. Hus!>l'!l DL•;ru ............... :\lana~ing Editor Chi Psi Lodge- ~1-6527 Gl'urgl' I..oadwicl< Peck ........... Sports Editor 838 Union St. 6-35-18 Cllristopht>r 1\i, Fahy .............. News Editor Delta Upsilon House-~1-7922 Edwin A. Fitz, Jr ................ Feature Editor 1~54 Glenwood Bivd. 4-~867 : i The1 e is no need to point out that merely beeausL' a ::;tudent is an outstanding- athlete, sdwhu·, orator, or writel' he is not neces- ' snrily qualified to assist in running a Prom. There is the additional consideration that frequently the men chosen m·e so engaged in other activities that they have too little time ~ to devote to the dance. It is felt among many educators, that radio training courses arc now an absolute necessity to any mod- nn institution. This i:; evidenced by the fact that there are somP 268 colleges and universities in the United Slates, among them Cornell, Rochester, Syracuse and Michigan, that maintain courses in Radio Tt·aining. They realize that the ra- dio profession is now taking its place in line with other profe:5· sions, for which college men need ,Jark Hahinowitz .......... Circul&tion Manager l'nder the system which is to be proposed, ! a list of candidates will be submitted to the executive committee of the Council and this training. Phi Sigma Delta Huuse-·-6·0765 REPRESENTED FOR NAT10NAL. ADVERTI~ING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. (?/lege Publishers Represetltative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N. Y, CHIC.iGO • BOSTOII • l.OS ANGELES ' SAN FRANCISCO 1 i g-roup will make the ultimate choice of the II dance committee. The executive committee will be able to weigh dispassionately the merit;; of each candidate, his previous exper- i ience, his willingness to serve on the com- The question now arises, are there a sufficient number of Union men interested in the course? The answer is yes. For, since la-st year when the workshop wa:> instituted, a total of eighty men have enroll- John Le\\is Paul Becker Junior Board James Twining Robert Schulberg John Phillips -----~~~-~-----·--- ·------ :Sophomore Board Alex~nder Arony, Annand Ftegenbaum, John Gtow, SamuL•l Portnoy. Jonathan Pea1son, Solo· n1on Hlecl1n1an -- ------ ---------·-·-- . -·- . --- .\Ldy K.t\, Ju...;t:tl l't'll:'ltlll~ ~t.tttl~ y ti-td'll~lt'ttl, l'ntJaid ll:ugh, L.a:-k . .t· :::!<'11\\.ttlz, .\ttltut lla\1:-. ;\l_d ··II ;\).d · l.!'sll<' E:litr.r Assistants Thoma: O\Con·wr -----------------------------------' Fl'i<l3y, Octnbl'i\ ~~- 1939 SIT TIGHT ' . · nuttee. and se\·e1·al other qualifications which are not g·h·en propel' consideration in : a popular election. TIH'l'e ean be few sound objections to such a plan. The past two highly successful inter- fraternity ctances have been managed by an 1 appointed committee, and the tax committee :annually chooses its members after inter- . views with several candidates. There would certainly l.Je fewel' \deals\ than have occur- r·ect undel' the em-rent system. I A Junior Prom is far too expensive an undertaking to allow it to con1inue as a popu- 1Jarity contest. Payne Gate this morni nv; bears a disgust- ing- c~a.t of vermillion paint as a reminder of·~ THE RETURN OF THE DUKE the v1s1t of severn! R. P. I. marauders to oul'l campus late last night. i The Duke of Nelson returns to Union to- It is only natural that resentment should i mmTow, leading a group of moleskin war- run hig-h, and that there ~hould be talk of riOl's from R. P. I. in an assault on the team reprisals. At this time of high spirit, how-' ot' his former colleague and pupils. eve1·, The Concordiensis urg-es L'nion men to: The \Duke\ who carved a large niche for \sit tight\ and to refntin fl'om anv such • himself in the affection of Union men will action. . ! be on the l'ival bench, attempting to beat the It requires al.Jsulutely no intelligence to ::.o:lm which he himself once helped to coach. destroy or deface p1·opert~·-the Payne Gate! It will be difficult fo1· Unirm men to adjust incident is an insult to the intelligence of any 1 themselves to the fact that the \Duke's sten- sensible R. P. 1. student. Unfortunately, torian taunts of \bandit\ and \jughead\ will howeve1·, the whole institution is included in l.Je aimed at them rather than at their foes. the general opprobrium caused by the action The Concordiensis welcomes \Duke\ back of a fev.· of its misguided students. to the Union campus-it is virtually impos- Let us prove our superiority through ap- sil.Jle to imagine a time when he will not be proved channels, not by attempting to recip- welcome. rocate this wanton destruction of college Fot· two brief hours tomormw afternoon, property. Cnion rancour occasioned by last however, the formalities of Union's welcome night's episode will be greatly appeased by a to 1Ir. Nelson will be restricted to that pre- decisive football victory tomorrow, and the pared by .i\Iessrs. Nitchman, Ciampa, Ham- vandals will have the very dul.Jious privilege merstrom and company. Union respects and of seeing· a Gamet team. which they helped admires her former coach, but when he at- inspire once ag-ain prove its superio1·ity. tempts to spoil a cherished record, personal- Let us ent1·ust our \revenge\ to the very ities are likely to be fo1·gotten dming the en- capable committee of eleven which Coach suing contest. Nitchman will put on Alexander Field tomor- We'll be over to see you after the game row after·noon. \Duke\ but from whistle to whistle our chief interest will be in a Union victory. POPULARITY CONTEST The end of Union's annual popularity con- test is in sight! .:.\Ieeting on Wednesday, the executive committee of the Student Council went on record as being in favor of an ap- pointed rathe1· than an elected Junio1· Prom committee, and the group dre\v up tentative plans for a new method of selecting the dance committee. The complete proposal for the abolition of the popularly chosen com- mittee will be submitted to the Student Council for approval on next Wednesday. OUR COLLEGIATE CONTEMPORARIES A campus-wide networlr of the WESLEYAN Broadcasting System is being planned at the Connecticut college. The netwo1•l• will work on a \~ired' wireless\ cype of transmission. ProgramiS will be sent out over an oscillator whose impulses are relayed through a wire colUlecting all dormi- t.ories. Tentative programs include a \wake-up\ program of popular music in the mol'lling, a summary of campus news. by the Wesleyan Ar- gus, an international news summary, as well as play b_Y play deseriptions of both home and away athlettc eontests. Advertising will be restricted· to one minute for a regular fifteen minute pro- gram. * A speeial committee at ST. LAWRENCE UNI- VERSITY appointed to investigate the question of class elections will advocate the abolition of the elections in its report to the student govern- ing body. * * * \Button Frosh!\ will be the new ery with ed. At the end of last season, they were credited by the short wave station, WGEA (formerly W2XAF) with eight excellent programs which have earned a considerable reputation for the college through- out the world. Letters have been received from France, England. and Scotland, commending the Workshop upon its fine programs. They have even shown enough in- ter eEt to ask us for copies of our college newspaper. Another important point to con- sider is that all of the training which one would receive from such a course, leads to permanent posi- tions in radio, and with television on the horizon. a host of new jobs for men trained a radio technique will be open. It is the duty of the college to keep abr·east of the times, and give its students an op- portunity to obtain these jobs. Very truly yours, Elliot Hertzmark. To the Editor of The Concordensis: ON NEUTRALITY You Sons of Minerva! Lou!{ upon Europe Which like a mad beast rips out its own entails, Destroying itself. But lest the crazed beast our land \vildly tears, Employ that Goddess' wisdom to avert Dark disaster here. In the crash of tumbling order over there, Ee not mad too, but with cool cal- culation Be wise in all thought. Maxfield Junior. I Tomorrow 10:00 a.m.--Berg Cup Award in Daily Assembly. 12 noon-Freshman Football. Union vs. R. P. I. 2:30 p.m.--Freshman Cross Country. Union vs. R. P. I. 2:30 p.m.-Varsity Football. Union vs. R. P. I. 3:00 p.m.-Varsity Cross Coun- try. Union vs. R. P. I. Sunday 11:00 a.m.-Sunt:!ay Service. Preacher, Rev. Leslie Glenn. 4:00 p.m.-Organ Recital. Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh. Monday Gymnasium. 5:00 p.m.--Public Speaking Class. General Engineering 7:30 p.m.-Band Rehearsal in Building, Room 106. Tuesday 10:00 a.m.-Daily Assembly. President Dixon Ryan Fox. 1:00 p.m.-Glee Club Rehearsal in Hanna Hall. A haircut EXACTLY the way you want it. ERIE BARBER SHOP 22 Erie Blvd. 110 Wall St. BEST WISHES of FABIAN THEATRES • PROCTOR'S • STATE • STATE Jntl'r'nlt'zzo-A I.uve ~tory intro- ducPs the thl'me of romance among musicians, playl'd, fittingly enou~?h, upon the pternal triangle. Leslie Howard had a mediaeval hand in the production quite apart from his functions as its star,-a fact which could explain the extreme apathy of critics, most of whom don't care for Leslie. All are in agreement, nevertheless, on the :5Ubject of Miss Ingrid Bergman's attributes. She is, in a word, sensational: a talented actress whose manner and appearance are quite unlike any- thing seen before on the screen. That kind of recommendation flows easily and frequently from the mouths of press agents, but the professional reviewet· seldom offers such enthusiastic praise. Ingrid must be good! U-Boat 29 was scheduled fat· an earlier appearance at the State, but it turned up missing at the elev- enth hour and TorpedoPd <featur- ing the recE'ntly-felled \Royal Oak\ 1 was substituted. Conrad Veidt, Valerie Hobson and Sebas- tian Shaw have been located at last and will now endeavor to point out the horrors of submarine warfare. Mr. Veidt is an excellent actor, capable even of holding your inter- est throughout. J.D. P. ·---a----- Christian Association Announces Bible Groups The Union College Christian As- sociation is sponsoring a series of Bible Study and Discussion Groups. To meet the nee.d of those who want to know more about the Bible, a group is meeting at the home of Professor Taylor every other Tues- day evening from 7:30 to 8:30. The next meeting will be on October 31st. For those who are interested in a discussion of religious problems, another group is meeting on the al- ternate Tuesdays from 7:30 P. M. to 8:30 P. M. in thP Student Lounge of Hale House. The next meeting of this group will be on Novem- ber 7th. These meetings are open to all intl'rested members of the college community. ADAM HATS \All one price\-$2.95 UNITY SHIRT SHOP I 04 B'way - just off State if(ruuf!i Just around the corner on Eastern A'enue Quality Ice Cream Light Lunches OPEN TILL MIDNIGHT Judge William Allen, '95, writes from New York: \Upon my return from the Princeton-Columbia game I turned in an.d got the glorious news of the Union-Vermont game. ... I will drive up for the Union- R. P. I. game next Saturday. I simply must see that team in ac- tion. \Chip\ Dain, captain of the 1934 eleven which covered itself with glory especially its 30 to 21 defeat here of Williams, writes from Os- wego, \There was a nice article in the local paper about Union and Hammerstrom the other evening. More such articles would do no harm around this section of the state. . . Congratulations to you and Nitch and the boys for the season so far. I'll be rooting f.or an undefeated season .... And from nearby Albany, Charlie Cameron, '27, writes for four tickets to the R. P. I. game and adds: \Let me add my bit to the con- gratulations which must be pouring in on you over the splendid show- ing our team has made this sea- son. What thrills me even more than the victories is the 'heads-up' game the boys are playing. ----=-=------- ELECTRICAL ITEMS for STUDENT NEEDS in a complete display at M .. GOLD &SON 619 State St. Phone 4-6981 Schenectady, N. Y. C. S. M 0 0 DY Optometrist Eyes Examined, Glasses Fitted 115 B'way Telephone 6-5747 Three Doors from State St. - SILVER DINER I Erie Boulevard Quality Food--Always Open One step from State St. PELOP'S Famous for Fino Food RESTAURANT 438 STATE ST. CLOVERLAND CREAMERY t=or Prompt Service MILl< - BUTTER - EGGS - CHEESE - ICE CREAM Phone 6-8104 919 State St. 'blue' COAL • FUEL OIL • SEEDS • FERTILIZERS HIRAM J. McKAiN COMPANY 306-314 Union St. Phone 4-4448 Watch and Jewelry Repairing Engraving JAY JEWELRY CO . There is little need to reiterate the events which occasioned the action of the executive committee. All upperclassmen are aware of the fact that the Prom has been a financial loss for the past two years. \Social suc- cesses\ that they may have been, these last two Proms have lost an aggregate of $425.00 which fr~>shmen will be greeted by up]lerclass- mPn at COLGATE UNIVERSITY. Tlie ad~ dressed freshmen is expect~d to lift his freshman cap by the maroon button on top. PLAZA COR. STATE and CENTER STS. ~~~==~==~~~-==~~========~~~~ ';1 I I v Ga FH T sen• stit1 Dut F'iel herE Th nf t whic ages veml gam ure and beg a to ric ties. scor Out Gan one olde ule, Ne\\ Tl thir: fidel was last yer for ting \DU poir rurr WOJ: Uni ing mer tun ~>J asl a s1 losi the lo.st Sin his tor Ro Gu rec bet ter the sor Ha an• I str ma ro~ wi thi sq1 tUJ tor mE ed ga qu M: an th th D• h~ so ju H cl sa h~ D M 01 S: OJ al t< Y• s VI R r: c ti g s p t v :: I f s t

. l t- ic r- n- to a et a ed m- he ni- I ac- ith eat in ng. no the the for rlie .ds: ow- 81 ed THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1939 Page Three VARSITY GRIDDERS P.RIMED FOR R. P. I. CONTEST Game Will Be Undefeated Garnet's Fifth Game of Current Season ~--------------------------------------------------------- Five R.. P. L Stars and Their Coach Intramural Standings 1. Phi Gamma Delta , .. , .. 224.65 Engineers, Coached by 'The Duke,' Have Won Three And Lost One-Trinity Defeated Them, 26 to 19 Tomorrow afternoon another chapter in the 53 year old series of football games Letween Rensselaer Polytechnic In- stitute and Union College will open and clos.e when the Dutchmen meet the Engineers from Troy 011 Alexander Field, in the featare of four athletic contests with R. P. I. here. This will' be the 38th meeting~-----------------------------­ The pet·formance o.f the Union varsity thicl week a.s it has been preparing for the tilt with R.P.I. has been entirely satisfying to Nels Nitchman. He says that the team is improving and that he will have two eqHally strong teams to throw into the game. The sophomore backs, namely Bob Killian, Sherry Hillick and Ed Eustice, have shown vast improvement and have rua rampant against the varsity in scrimmage this week. ERNIE MAGYAR JOE MADDEN GE@RGE SHAKO, Capt. COACH NELSON Cross- Country Te,ams Prepared White Harriers For Cherry and of the two schools in the series which started back in the dark ages o'f 1886, to be exact on No- vember 19. The score of that first game is still in doubt, but we'll fig- ure on the basis that Union won and can say that since the rivalry began we have chalked up 28 vic- tories over four losses and four ties. In these 37 contests Union has scored 538 points to R. P. I.'s 118 . Out of the last ten games the Garnet has won seven games, lost one and tied two. This series, the oldest on the Union College sched- ule, is also one of the oldest in New York State. This year the 'Tutemen are thirsting for victory and feel con- fident that their time has come. It was six years ago that R. P. I. last tasted victory, when Bud Saw- yer ran roughshod scoring twice for the Cherry and White, and set- ting the stage for a field goal. The \Duke\ has said that he is not pointing for any one team but it is rumored over in Troy that he would settle for a victory over Union for the loss of the remain- Tuesday and Wednesday practice sessions were devoted to scrimmage and yesterday afternoon a dummy scrimmage was held for a final re- hearsal of blocking and running assignments. The whole Garnet of- fense has been revised to cope with the knowledge that \Duke\ Nelson, head coach at R.P.I. and former line coach here at Union, has in this department of tactics. Nitch- man considered this point so im- por·tant that he called a practice on Monday afternoon to outline and drill on new assignments. Both the varsity and freshman~>-------------------------­ cross-country teams wil'l entertain Johnson and Fran!' Melewicz strong it.P.I. harrier squads tomor- should also finish in the first five row afternoon in meets which will for Union, but whether or not they be run off during the varsity foot- will be able to outrun Burns and ball game. The visiting Trojans Nelson, second and third Rensse- :~~~ ~~nt~!f:~i~~v~~i:e~n~~n ~:r.: laer men, is a question upon which sity conceded almost an even hinges the outcome of the meet. \Doc'' Maines, Jack Person, Don Collins, Dick Conly, Gale Hoffman and Bob Murphy should finish in about that order for the Garnet, if past performances are to be conddered. chance of stopping an R.P.I. often- sive which has won three of the last four runs between the schools. Bob Baker Will Start ing games. Last year, with Ham- Nitchman has announced that mer.8trom, Patrie and Brockmeyer his starting lineup will be the tunning loose, Union won 26-13. same as it has been all season with Duke Successful the exception of Bobby Baker at \Duke\ Nelson, in his first season center in place of Bob Molloy. as head coach at R. p, I., has done Nels ha.s made this change with an a successful job, winning three and eye toward an expected passing losing one. The Engineers opened attack by the Engineers and this their season against Trinity and change will strengthen our defense lost a hard fought battle 26 to 19 . against such an aerial raid. Molloy Since then the \Duke\ has piloted is slow and has been less success- his team to three successive vic- ful than Baker in stopping the tories over Hamilton, 25 to 7 ; aerials from his backing up post. Rochester, 26 to 6, and the Coast The starting lineup will find Jim Guard Academy, 12 to 6. Union's Bothwell at left end, Wally Baker record is equally as good, if not at left tackle and Dick Kearns at better, having played teams of bet- left guard. Baker will be guarding ter calibre and gone undefeated at the center post, flanked by Johnny the same time. Thus far this sea- Krull, Augie Kluge and Jack Qui- son, the Dutchmen have downed bert at right guard, tackle and end, Haverford, Middlebury, Vermont respectively. Dick Balch will be at and tied Trinity. quarterback, Jack Vannier at left half, George Norris at right half, R. P. I. will send one of the and Capt. Sammy Hammerstrom at strongest teams they have had in fullback post. One of the biggest many years into the game tomor- factors in Union's successful sea.son row afternoon. In addition they has been the strength and number will send their strongest team of of reserves. Nitchman has pointed this season onto the field, the out that since he actually has two squad being bolstered by the re- varsity teams of almost equal cal- turn of Don Hoopes and Red New- ibre, there is little significance in ton, both strong backfield replace- the starting lineup. All through the ments. Coach Nelson has uncover- season he has been substituting ed two linemen in the Coast Guard players in group of four, five, six game who proved themselves ade- and at one time in the Vermont quate replacements for Magyar and. game seven men. This frequent Madden, namely Bob Hintermeister substitution has allowed Nels to and Gordon Bowker. lreep a strong team on the field at Co-captains Paul Santoro and Frank Melewicz, along with Bill Johnson and Gale Hoffman, are seniors, and will run the Union Cor.::tpatative records give the course in competition for the last Cherry and White team the edge. time. Santoro, No. 1 man, is con- They have beaten Wesleyan and ceded a fine chance of handing Colgate, while Union holds its only R.P.I.'s Vic Head his first defeat win over Middlebury, having lost of the season. He has taken only to Vermont and N. Y. U. N. Y. U. one fir$t in three meets, but he has defeated Colgate by a perfect score stacked up against a better caliber of 15-40, while R.P.I. made a 17-38 ef runners than has the Engineer killing. The fighting Engineers luminary. Leslie McMitchell has lost their first meet in 11 starts dominated track and cross-country when they were nosed out 27-28 by circles in the East for two years Williams two weeks ago. now, and Santoro was not expected The Union freshman team will be to do as well as he did when he out after its first win of the sea- finished only seventy-odd yards be- son having already been outclassed hind the N. Y. U. leader. by Nott Terrace High School. Attention Swimmers Varsity swimming practice will start for all men on Wednesday, November 1. All men interested in becoming members of the squad are asked to report to the Foote Memorial Pool between 3 and 4 p.m. CANDIDATE MANAGERS All sophomores interested in be- ing candidate managers of varsity track and swimming are asked to report to the Foote Memorial Poll between 3 and 4 p. m. on Wednes- day, November 1. or to call Don Roberts at the Phi Delta Theta fra- ternity. STYLE FOR SALE The cry from Troy has been that all times and ha.s had the effect of their team is riddled with injuries, wearing down the opposition and the most serious loss being Jack leaving them weak in the final pe- Dempsey, experienced tailback who riods. This fact was brought out has played a stellar role all sea- strongly in the Vermont game son. He suffered a serious back in- when after being held scoreless in jury in the Coast Guard game. the first half we tallied three times However, Nitchman has been in- in the last half, two of them in cljned to discount these reports and the fourth period. says that in Schwartz, the Trojans Up until this game, Unioh stu- have a much better back than dents who know the \Duke\ have Dempsey, whom he replaces. been following his team with in- terest and have been wishing him success. And successful he has been, for this is the first time since the '20s that a R.P.I. team has won three victories in one season. At this time last year the \Duke\ was priming the Union line to stop the· 'Tutemen's running attack and to open holes for the Garnet backs. However, the picture is reversed and the \Duke\ is now laying plans to stop the Garnet attack and to break open the Union forward wall. Three Seniors Captain George Shako, Ernie Magyar and Russ Day will be the only seniors starting the game on Saturday. They are the backbone of the Engineers' team and have all figured highly in the three vic- tories their team has scored this year. In addition, keep an eye on Sammy Schwartz and Gus Geib. The probable lineup for R.P.I. will be Cunningham at right end, Rice at right tackle, Russ Day at right guard. Yager will be in the center post and fianldng him on the left will be Ernie Magyar at guard, Joe Madden in the tackle slot and Morg Hoover at the end post. Cantain Shako will lead his team from the fullback position while Gus Geib will be at left half, Sammy Schwartz at right half and Freddie Schnatz will call the plays from the quarterback post. The R.P.I. paper winds up one sports story with the statemer1t that \'The Fighting Engineers' will enter Saturday's game the· de- cided underdog. Union is confident of victory and feels it wiH be an easy game. But one thing should be kept in mind before deciding the victor, and that is that there hasn't been a team yet representing Rens- selaer that has stopped flghting 'til the final whislte, and this team won't be an exception. Win, lose or draw Union will know that they have been through a tough battle.\ in a friendly, dignified atmosphere. O'MARA'S New Restaurant • Good food and drink \The white place with the picket fence.\ Ill WASHINGTON AVE. THE ARR 0 W SUS SEX $2 up • Here it is - a distinctive new shirt with a new collar especially designed for under- graduates. No wardrobe should be without this smart widespread collar. It's the newest style shirt this season and will be in good taste for years to come. See us today and ask for the Arrow Sussex, all sizes - white, solid color and fancy patterns. NUSBA-uM'S 447-451 S'l'ME STR.EE'f 2. Theta Delta Chi 178.09 3. Delta t;p,.ilun ........... 162.50 ·!. Ka;Jpu Sigma . . . . . . . . . . 155.40 5. Beta ThPta Pi ...... , , . . 152.50 6. Sigma Phi 145.21 7. Phi Sigma Kappa ...... 144.62 8. Delta Chi . . . . . . . . . . 129.04 9. Phi Delta Theta ........ 125.78 lU. Psi l.Jpsiluu . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124 24 11. Alpha Pdta Phi . . 115.00 11. Phi Sigma Delta ........ 115.00 13. Delta Phi . . . . . . . . . . 107.89 14. Chi Psi ................. 102.50 15. Kappa Alpha . . . . . . . . . . . 97.70 16. Kappa Nu . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94.62 FRED SCHN A'l'Z JACU: DEMI,SEY 17. :-;'cutral~ ............... . 17. South College .......... . 19. Sigma Chi ............. . 19. North College ...... , ... . 19. Oldgym Hall .. G ........ . 0 NO'!' ICE 62.50 62.50 50.00 50.00 50.00 Yearling Eleven Set for Engineers Coach Art Lawrence's freshman football team will be out fighting for its first victory of the current season when it tackles the R.P.I. yearlings on Alexander Field to- monow at noon. Both teams have yet to win a game, Union having lost to the Kent School, Morris- ville Aggies and Middlebury, while R.P.I. lost its first game last week to the Williams freshmen. Football Field MePt -The foot- ball field meet will be held Tues- day and Wednesday at 1 p. m. A full program will be run off each day. Coach Lawrence expressed opti- mism yesterday when he stated that his team was coming along fast and should be ready to break into the win column on Saturday. The defects of the last few games have been ironed out and the squad is in good shape with plenty of ex- perience under its belt. The R.P.I. freshmen are working hard and will be ready for their second game this Sc:..turday. They absorbed a 43-0 drubbing at the hands of the yearlings fi.om Wil- liamstown but will be out to win tomorrow. If they do, they will have the honor of not having to wear their freshman caps for the I 1·emainder of the year. J In Haller, MacFarland and Nie-. lowocki, R.P.I. boasts a strong' running attack, which just couldn't get going against Williams, to counteract Union's passes thrown by Ed Green. In addition they have an experienced prep school star and place kicker in \Bull\ McMullen. BEAUTIES HIT TOWN! I F YOU want to see some patterned shirts that are real beauties • • • shirts that are absolutely tops in style .•. just drop in today and see our swell new collection of Arrow shirts. $2 up. BARNEY•s 217 STATE ST. Coach Lawrence is expected to 1 use the same line-up which started 1 against the Middlebury yearlings I with Ed Green, Don Quigley, Ken '----4 Sharpe, in the backfield. r ~ OUT TODAY~, ~ A new Arrow shirt .;; with A new Arrow collar flEe Sussex $2 up THE Sussex type collar is the current favorite of students at Oxford and Cambridge, England. It is definitely a young man's collar, cut on a low drape template, the square points flare away from the tie knot and are moderately wide-sprea·d, held rigid by a celluloid insert which may be removed if desired. Quick to discern the style importance of this smart collar, Arrow designed the Sussex par- ticularly for American university men. It will strike hard on your campus ... better get one today while they last. In white, colors, and striped patterns with French cuffs. All neck sizes and sleeve lengths. ARROW SHIRTS COLLARS ••• TIES ••• HANDKERCHIEFS ••• UNDERWEAR

Page Four TilE CONCORDIENSlS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1939 -------------------------·1 \Dr. Langsam Invited Union Praised By Sports Write11 , Old College Rules Never Repealed ! To Contribute to Book Tiebout Discusses Modern Art B(•rg and Garis Cups A !t'ardetl Tom ornm• Tlw Dr. Ernst J. Berg Schol- The tht·£>e talks which Dr. Wallet· Pablo Pica;;~o and his contribu- AS Non- Professional School !Continued from Page 1 l ance which in~pircd Union's found- inr.;, ma.y bt• seen in a fut'lhel' spc- t.inn which stall'S, \As it is the right <~f l'\'Pl y religious cknomina- tiun to l'Hjuy tht•ir peculiar senti- ments anu moues of worship. it is ol tlt•tt>d, that thP o!licet ~ of the cul- lPgP. in thl'ir instt'ttt't ion of thl' ,;tu- dt>nt~ avoid a:-; rnueh ::L~ pus~ibh' thust' contt 0\'t:l t<•d points whtdl have so long diviLIL'd t ht• Cht istian at \hip Cup, awanlcu annually I Consuela Langsam delivered in tion to modc.rn art was the topic to the ft·atN·nitv whoS<' mem- Daily Assembly on \Certain Back- discu:;sed last WPuncsday in Daily By JACH. PHILLIPS bets achieve th~ highPst schol- gcounds fur the Present War,\ will Assembly by Ralph H. Tie bout, The New York Hetald Tt ibune !U ship rating, will be presented fo;·m the nu.cleus of a 15,000 word, '42. Dc>scribing- the art of Picasso paid tribute to Union College's ·ur:- tumo1t ow mot·ning in Daily As- I ~hapt~r .winch th~ speaker ha.s he quoted from Gertrude Stein, who defeated eleven. yester.day. when 1t sf>mbly to thE' winninr.; frPt•et- b<:>en mvttod to wr.te for a book said \No one had ever tried to I dPdicated ten mches on Jts sport nity. Tlw Garis Cup, donated I en:itled \Symposiu~. on W8:r in ~h: expt:ess things seen hot as one. pages to. state that t~e scholastic by D<'!Hl Charlc>s F. F. Gat i:; as T\\ entteth Cent ttl). that ts bemg !mows thC'm but as they are as ene I marks of the Garnet .oat bull team an award for the dormitory l'<lil.ed by Dr. Vl.'tllat· yvaue:·· no~ed sees them without remembering match its gridiron fea{s. ·The who~<' mPmbPrs stanu highest in I ,;ucwlugtst cf C. ·olumbta Unn:ers1ty, having looked at them.\ headline on tile ieature story by :<rholarship. wil'l bc> awatdc>d at atHl to bP pub,.;shed in Decembei'\ To il.lu~ttate thP typical form of Robert Cooke reads, \Yt~ion tlw same> time. u:: Ra·ndnm Hottsl'. Pisc>as,;o's art, TiPbout drew on a El~ven's Ma·rks Match Gl'!dJ.ron won by Kappa Nu ftatt•rnity, nounced that Dr. Langsam has the Spanish painter, and precedPd i Players Show Aptitude in Their L:u,;t year the Bet·;; Cup was I Columbia Univetsity ha,; also an-' slate an example of th<' works of. Feats, SchPnectad.y's Undefeated wh\~'' mPmbet·s sN an ull timP bcPn engaged to be professor of to explain the essence of the ub- 1 Classroom, Too.\ ThP C'ollPgP authoritit·~ WL'lP el'r- 1·econl of ·!.H\!5 as their eup aver- . hi:.'tory in the gtallttatc> division of sttact quality of form and beauty· Cooke dE'srtibes Union College as tainly taking no C'hanct•s of a mota!, ·•·gP. Notth Coll<'ge won last 'I the Summer School lll 1940. contained in the picture. Labeling 1 one of those \ununua1 institution:; wutltl.\ slip on thl' part of th<' ... ttll\Pnt body Y\~l.t 's Gat is Cup, Jpading South La>t summ:': Dr. Langsam .held the picture \Mr. Houghton,\ he pre- I which wc.a-rs a cloak ·of true ama- fllt' b<·~Hi<'s ~tipulatmg thP punt~h-~ Collt>ge and Oldgym Hall. I a stmrlar positiOn at Duke Umver- ceedt>d to explain tha.t although thl'! tc>urism during the football mcnt tu1 sUdl crlm<·~ as bl,,~plll'lll)' I sity, following the publication of I picture did not resemble Mr. Hough I months.\ He continues. saying that and Lluelltng, thl' 1 Pg-ulntion fur- B his book, \The World Since 1914.\ I ton it was per.fectly correct accord-~ this mantle of amateurism is a rare thL'l stutrd that \All the• stttdl'nts renner Addresses ----- --·0------ ing to the dPfinition of Miss Stein. gric'irun phenomenon in this day of at·,• strictly ftll bidden to play at Py .... a m'Id Club Wyatt Visits Schools \Picasso Tie bout said, \break-! greedy professionalism. Robert cat d:;, or any unlawful gatnl'; to ing the bonds of repre~entation, ·Ripley might be interested in u~c' !Jl of<Hll' ot· ob.,;<'<'n<' langua.g<'; 1 , 1 . 1 . 1 • 1 1 B In New Eng· land Area casting aside perspective and prc- 1 · knowing that the Union players do to t'\H>r • l'l'< <'II<'\ •. ronneL to ~ttik<' or in,;ult any pPt>'Oll; to Phait nnn of th<' Divi~ion of Social . . conceived subjects, believes that· not catch up on their sleep in thQ assueiat<• with pet ~ons of known Studi<'s. wa' gur,;t sp<>aker at the lltihr. Fredetnc A .. 11 W yatt,datshststantt. thP at ti~t no less than natu: e, can I class room, but continue to be as bad chatactt•r; to attend at plaC'P>' to c secre ary, wt· spen e 1_1ex t cteate objects born of existing i enthusiastic about their home work of v.tin or idll' ,;;wtt~; to vi:;it tav- n~<'<'ting of,tl_ll' Pytami<l Club la't -'' 0 weel\s on a tout· of meetmg-s · fotms. And if their rt•pr!'sentation' as thl'y are about thdr footbal-l\. \ttl:' ,.,.,·tll<>Ut lt'bc.•t.t~ ... t<J •'lllP<''lt· t'n mght Ill ~tillman Hall Profc:<::'ol •nd <chools On V\'rdnesdav Octo I b . I I I 'd th N y k •t ' ' ~ ' . · !:l!'l'tlll<'l' tral'l'd tlw histotv of l ... ,; 5 h · tt d d ' ·t'. f • egPts rmotwn. it wi .1 no unger. sal <' ew or w:l er. im~<·<'<'nt dt t•ss. ol in wonwn':; ap- . . • wt ~ · e a en e a mcc mg 0 be through the familtar arrange-' He gues on .to potnt out that 1 I I l k .\mntl'a•tl l~<·Utlahty tlnoughllut 1 tlh' Collt>gl' Entrance Examination n 1 ntlt of stt'll n1o 1 \ fanlt'lt'at· f'<-'t'nls 1 \'hnt·n \ rrJeat ma]'ot·!'·t'\ of col:legno,• par<> ; to i<·. :;t<·a ' gl't L run · or tht> \'Pars ot tht• drvelopnwnt of ' d · N y 1 c· Th d ' ' ' 'I \ ' c \ \' ' '\ be guilty of any oth<•r gto>'s im- 1 • ~ . ,' , . , . -.em 1 .n ew or' !ly. ttl'S ay but by the perceptible radiation of havP made football a yea1·-round h II l.lt C mt<d ~t.ttt s. 'llltl Ft•tda•· he w•t'll attend a mnet ' · · · · f m, 11 aliti<·s. lf any -'tudent \ a. , . , , . , , .. . .· ' J ' - the pttte p!opcrtie;; of pla~tic ele- pastime, \at Unwn 1t ts only a all 1 Th< tlt.b h<lu 11.., t<gU\Il bu:;t- 1 1 ·• of the Ea:otL'ln College Per · ttan,gtt'~\ in L<ny uf t ll'\\ r<'='P<'et:', . . .. . \ -, ments of el<'ments combmed in an sport. A large number of the foot- lit• :;hall bl' puntohl'd by fitH' not ':''% Ill<'<' ling atl<'r t.lw <•t<'.~U><ston. 1 ~·Dnnel Officers' Association thl't'P. i 01 irrin~l manner. In othet· words baBels arc needed on other athletic 1<-~,· tlmn fift\ et•nt.:'. not mot<' tl:an ':Uttng wl~ll'll. !Jlans \\'t':t• dt~cuss<'dl l!P expects to ,;pend one 01' two; Pi;assu will give vou a pure!•· artis: fields in the spring a'ld Nitchman • Jul thl' Club:,; dall<'t' fot non-ft a- 1 '· \. • • t th N, · y ·I \\ ·!·'' · · · · J J • • • • thl<<' dt.llats; ut !Jy a<lnwnitiun. • ,L.<I,:s a e 'tV. 01 ' • 01 u:; tiC ·not a hvmg l'lllOtion. Ptc~s;;u has gJVPll up the tdea of spnn~ ,,.,nit\' mt·n to bt• lll'ld Satut Llav i F·tit· and wi'l t·eturn to Sch •n •etad · · '' 1 u,;ucatwn. or '·xpubi<.t1.\ ewni; 1 .. ;.;u\'L'tlliJl't , 1 'tt Hann; 1 ,,' h f. . ' < ~ · pt·Pt<t•nts a purely artbtic emotion. 1 practice. The lack of spring prac- ~· • '. ' · .<ll t e con l'IPnC<' on Industry and 1 nothin\ human nothin\ appealing· tic<' i:; only one of Nels difficulties\ II.Ill. Attane<'llH'nt\ att• hl'mg made' (!o\'t'ttlntellt o11 No\\'tllbet· 1 a11d., 1 \ · · 11 h \d \ : h · 'd ' Of intl'Il'!'-t to dot-nlitory ll':--idt'nt~ i' thP nott' fot bidding student:; to srnokP t>Xl't>pl in tllt'ir own room. t~J cn·ate no L:::--tutbat1L't> dutin~ till' ~tu<iy h\uts and to tl'frain ft t>lll rual'-.ing \l!llll't'Pnt nobc:-o in thL• eollq.?,t', ur frotH tlu· collq.!t' V\ induY.·:-: .. Tht•\' V.t'l t' furtbPl' fol- btdd.•n !tJ \thrll'w ;u;y thing ag-ain~t ur o\\l'l' t ht· collt•gt· •.:diftct• in thl' t'lltt il'~. ot do\VI1 t ht• ~tail~ ... l'<·l hap~ tla· <'nly lu w t hl' ,;t u- dt'nt buJv wvuld fa \'01' at tht• nw· nwnt b ih•· <JIH' ~tating \Tilt' !Hit't· uf tUitl•Jll, Jol <·ach uf th<· .-tudent~ \vbo attl'nd t•,Ull'l of tht> l'la:::::-t•:-:. in Cul:t•gt•, ~hall b<• !Wt'llly dullats jll'l annurn. a. pto!Jottlonal part to bt· p.nd ill adv.IIHT tu tht> Ttt·a~un·l Ol ::-)tl'\\~U d. a!. tht> l'Olll!l!l'lll.'l'l11Pt1t ct th<' \''':'ton. In a<:ditiOll to which 'arh ~tUC:l'nt will pay four dollars tt ~t·at· fur t oon1~1 t>nt, to bP paid a~ a bo\\l' dlt Pl'tt>d; PXl't>pt t host• :o;t U- ([('n!s who OL'<'liPY 1 uom~ Ill t lll' foullll Holy. who ~hall pay two doilal'~ only.'' To a~cf'I tain the pr£'.:-:l'nt status of tht>H' uld 1 uh•,-, D1. \\'altlt on was intPt vi<'W<'d. H<' ~tatt>d that to his knowlPdge tht•n• ha\ n<'V<'t· b<'t'll a fcrmal tqll'al of what might be eall<·d \l:ninn bluP law,;.\ 01'. \Val- dron ~aiel hoWPVPl'. that hl' b<'lil'Vt'ti that thl' 1 ulPs had not bt'l'll cn- fcrcPd for a long pPl iod of tin!e sincP the policy nf thP admini-: 1 a- ticn for ~olll<' tim<' had bt·Pn to put h·ss Pmpha....:is on thP disciplina1 y a~pPct of college 1 Pgulation:-;. 0 Dr. Danton Writes Historical Article . ,, • . • • , . . , • . , ~ ~ -· 1 y warm. JUSt co t ar art. · t c wntcr sal . b) Ed,latd L1jLo\\~kt. ptt-Hl<llt of on ;'-lovember 3 and 4 Mr. V\'yatt 1---- I tl~<• ~lub. to hav<' _::IU:'ie by tht•Scar- goes to Elmira CollegP to attend a .---------------, lt'l' ;,;yncop· turs. 1 ht• afta1r wtll <'X- , 1 wding of the :\><ew York StatP tl'IHI ftora ll to 12. Tht> cummittee: Acsot'iation of D~ans. He will 111 ehat g<' con <i~t~ of \\'illiam I sprnd Novc>mber 6-9 in visiting l :u d~:lll. ~Haltlww Tyhot ow~ki. Ed- ,·chools and firms in Elmira Corn- I Ottaviano's Sartorial Ben· i Make Your c:al Fi>b•r. Hil'h:ll <I \\'atanobi. 1 ing and OtH'onta and sutTo~nding I Meeting Place i 0 • t.>wns and will t·etm·n home on the Delta Upsilon Wins Fall Track Meet ~ llth. I at Tht• Dl'lt:J 1.·p~ilun FJat<'l'l~i>v \';on tlw Fall :LIL'k lll<'l'l la,;t \\'t>d- IW~<lay. Rt·~ulb •>f th•• l:i:'t h1lf of, tit<' tll<'l't w<•t·l' Jan•lin Ullo'.\'. ::\let ::'on. Kappa Sigma. fit st; Char:;- plin, Phi (}atnnHt Dt·lta. st•t•ond: ::\lata Dl'lt·• Cp,;ilon. tb1 d; KP•'I>'. DPlta l'IJSilon. foUl th; B! Pl'd. Kappa Sigma, fifth. J.ll' fr<'t. five incht··~ wn:-; t~H' winning t.ht ow. 100 YH 1 d D.1sh: Clla<·:\!illan. PU liamm:t DPlta. tit~t.. :\luthl'L De:t.1 t 'p::;.i lun, :;l•cond; l~opf. Ka.ppa Hig.llHl, thud; Baa~. P~t l:p~ilun. fonrth: \\·y,olldli. Tlwta DPlta. Chi fifth. Tinw 10 minutp;; 9 H'l'ontb. High jump: Burt!Ptt. Delta C)'- ,;ilon. fit ,;t; Se:mt!Pbury. DPlta Phi and :\\. C. \\'ilkin. Si~ma Phi. st'C· ond; \'inirk. K:.ppa :\\u. Bm well, Fhi Gu.n11na D<>lt:> and Henning Phi Gan1ma DPlta. fourth. Tl:t• winnin:! jump, five ft>Pt four inches. KXO Ya.t d Helay. DPlta l'psilon, fit:;t, 1·46.2. ThPta Dt>lh Chi 11r.d ThPta [)p[ta Chi. ~<'C'Olld: 1 ::J3. p,; l'psilun, fourth; 1:53.2. Kappa .:\\u. f~~h:_ 1~~3~. -- ----- ---·--1 Bellevue Quality Bakery 2625 B'way Phone 4-6248 ' BREAD- ROLLS - PAl\iTRY IDEAL BARBER SHOP 448 S~ate St. EXCELLENT BARBERS \Come in and Try Our Haircuts\ Always Refreshing A Haircut at the ACME Barber Shop Where Service is u Pleasure 509 Union St. Phone 4-4525 I ! REUTER iS 130W!..iL\lG ACADEMY 148 Clinton St. R for building health in / mind and body Amsterdam Dairy MILK 2 glasses before retiring Repeat Daily Phone 6-2351 for Daily Delivery RIGHT OVER AT BRANDHORST'S You can get anything you need from the Drug Store. BRANDHORST PHARMACY \On the Corner\ UNION ST. and GILESPIE I I ! ' I I I i I I i is thP place to go for formal wear and ~matt tailoring 277 :-itate St., V\.·edgeway Bldg. Our Superior Hotel Type of Barber Service COSTS YOU NO MORE Hotel Vara Curler BARBER SHOP Douw F. Beekman Gasoline - Brake Service U.S. Tires- Motor Tune-up Exides - Lubrication e Let Us Prepare Your Car for Winter 601 UNION ST. Open Until II P. M. \In addition, after the school year begins, the squads practice ses- sions are limited to only three afternoons each week because classes preveni. Monday workouts. and Saturday games allow only light dri'll on Friday. Fifteen of the 35 players are engineers or pre- meds, and these men have thei.r afternoons shortened by labora- tories. Besides thesl' handicaps, Nitchman must dismiss nine of his proteges early each afternoon.\ Cooke says that the Union coach cannot restrain himseif when he discusses his team. \He is partic- ularly fond of telling all who will listen about the deeds of Sam Ham- merstrom, captain and fullback. In Nitchman's book Hammerstrom 'is the best footba11 player I've ever seen at Union'.\ In the words of Cooke, Nitch- man acclaims Sammy as being \a hard blocker, an excellent passer and punter and a driving back who has the power of Nagurski and the elusiveness of Clint Frank\. And when you have a combination of \Bronke\ Nagurski and Clint Frank on the same team you really have something. Nagurski is one of the best line crackers to come out of the middle West in a long time an.d Frank is one of the most outstanuing and versatile ball car- riel'S to wear the moleskins for Yale in many a season. Freeman's High Quality WALLPAPER PAINT GLASS For Past 142 Years Freeman & Son~ Incorporated Phone 4-9155 12-20 Erie Blvd. Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market OUR M 0 T T 0 \Quality - Service Satisfaction\ 598 Broadway For Better Values Professor Grot g<' H. Danton, h!.'ad of the modern language de- partm('nt. has had an article print- ed in the Octob('r issue of \New Yotk History,\ the quarterly mag- azine published by the N('w Yorl\ State Hi,;torical As.,ociation. The article is entit!Ptl \Amalia \\'cise Schoppe, SchcnPctady's :\1ost Pt·o- lific Author,\ and deal~ with the life of l<'ri!U fll'!wppP. the German writer whu livC'<l in Schenectady, Henry's Barber Shop PHONE 4-6202 SCHENECTADY, N.Y. I Ill X E'W York ('pnf ral AI·cadt> I I Gazette Press 1851 to 185& • Frau Schoppe was pspccially ('n- thu\iastic about Union College, which was th<>n under Eliphalet Nott, and in one> of het· at·tieles rPfer,; to the only educational in- stitutions in Am<>rica as Harvard, Yale and \the collPge in Sc>hcnec- tady.\ PEARSONilS I 108 Not+ Terrace Ul (,) m Sodas - Candy :;;c z < ::> Magazines m ...1 Papers - Ice Cream 0 4 BA!tBERS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=~ Hai n-utting - Manic>uring I !.:_=_=~~_:::=_ =_=.-=._=_::_~====. = _ _:::~ I Restaurant • Tap Room Delicatessen GOLD'S ALWAYS POPULAR PARAMOUNT PETE'S 22 Churc:h St. Ph. 1613 \TOPS in SARATOGA\ for Union Dates Featuring the NEW Marine Room Headquarters for VICTOR, BLUEBIRD, COLUMBIA RECORDS, RCA RADIO, ELECTRIC PHONOGRAPHS and COMBINATIONS. PORTABLES. ALL ORCHESTRAL INSTRUMENTS. PIANOS. Look for the Neon Sign CLUETT & SONS 202 STATE ST. * Joseph F. I' FOR THE Printers Inter-Fraternity Ball To Rate with your Date Youlll need a CORSAGE Get H at UNION'S florist Cigarettes Completely Renovated Come in and Enjoy Yourself Connelly for T .. J\ KING---Florist ---~---. To Assure Flavor and Enjoyment Always Serve FRO-JOY ICE CREAM Mayor of Schenectady DEMOCRAYIC CANDIDATE Overhead Crossing (State Street) PHONE 4-6444 AGENT ON CAMPUS-KEN MacKENZIE Phi Gamma Delta House-4-8323 Z- = Vol = 1 ed thE off 192 1101 da: fra est pr1 to xa· Cc So Z.E 2A sli fr, 2.~ N A tt ;;,: tc 3. .1 a1 g: o: rr tE ti t' h y. I r: c ( r t

ear i€5- ree use uts nly the >re- Iei.r >ra- ips, his ach he ·tic- will am- . In L 'is ~ver tch- ; \a sser who the A.nd ' of ~lint ally one orne IOBg nost car- for vd. ~45 ' - J l i ' I r t,._ ... j,_ L r ., 'l ·~·1/{/ ' i J • Penner Wins Thirty Oppenheim Study Award Speaking Z-511 Vol. LXIII., No. 13 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 31, '1.939 PRICE FIVE GENTS ================~==~·=·~~=-==-====================~===~================~========-=~===~=·==-~·=·=··=·~·~=-========= Kap,pa Nu Wins Scbolarshi:p Cup Fo.r Fifth Time Alpha Delta Phi Is Runner-Up for Berg Fraternity Trophy Kappa Nu FraterBity was award- ed the Berg Scholarship Cup for the fifth time since it was first offered ·by Dr. Ernst J. Berg in 1924, Dean Charles F. F. Garis an- nounced in Daily Assembly Satur- day. The cap is awarded to the fraternity which compiles the high- est scholastic standing during the preceeding academic year. The Garis Cup, awarded annually to the dormitory with the highest ranking·, was presented to North College, whose ave1age was 2.882. South College with an average of 2.871 received honorable mention. The average for all men wns 2.466. The neutral's average was slightly higher than that of the fraternity men, the former being 2.520 and the latter, 2.398. In winning the Berg Cup, Kappa Nu had a cup average of 4.914. Alpha Delta Phi, the runner-up in the competition, had an average of 3.296. Honorable mention was given to Delta Phi whose average was 3.206. In compiling cup averages, .1 of one point is added to the actual average for each man in a gt oup who has attained an index of four m· over. Kappa Nu had 13 men with an index of four or bet- ter, while North College had five. Interfrate1-nicy Rating High Dean Garis announced the Na- tional Interfraternity Ratings of the three fratemities who led the houses in scholastic ranking for the past year. Respectively, they were Kappa Nu, plus 45, Alpha Delta Phi, plus 21, and Delta Phi, plus 10. Commenting on the rating of the Berg Cup winner, Dean Garis said, \I would not be sur- pdsed if plus 45 came very near the top in the national rating for individual chapters.\ In awarding the Berg Fmternity Cup, only those houses with ten or more members are eligible for competition. On this basis, 18 fra- temities were eligible. The order of rank from the fourth group down is as follows: Phi Sigma Delta Delta Upsilon, Theta Nu Epsil~n. Lambda Chi Alpha, Psi 1.;psilon, Delta Chi, Beta Theta Pi, .~hi Gamma Delta, Sigma Chi, Kappa Sigma, Chi Psi, Sigma Phi, .·hi Delta Theta, Phi Sigma Kap- pa, Theta Delta Chi and Kappa Alpha. Several decided changes in rank- ing occurred since the awat·ding of the cup for 1937-38. ---o----- Penner Receives Oppenheim Award Solomon Penner, '42, of Saratoga Springs, received the Oppe~heim Class of 1875 Scholarship Prtze at Daily Assembly Saturday. The prize is given to the member of the preceeding year's freshman class who has attained the highest scho- lastic standing. Penner, who compiled an index of five, is studying for a Bachelor of Science Degree in Chemistry and is a refugee from Germany. He Is affiliated with Kappa Nu Fraternity. Four other members of the Class of 1942 attained indexes of five. Penner was awarded the prize after an investigation by Dean Garis revealed that he was the only man of the five who had a perfect average both at the end of the first semester and at the close of college last June. The other four men were Robert W. Davison of Glens Falls, Delphis C. Goldberg of Troy, Philip J. Landry, Jr. of Saratoga Springs and San- ford P. Thompson of Amsterdam. Dean Garis also announced that the college wished to congratulate the schools from which these five students came and so sent to each school for its library a copy of Thomas Craven's \A Treasury of Art Masterpieces\. The high schools which received copies of this book were Glens Falls High School, Troy High .School, Saratoga Springs High school and the Wil- bur H. Lynch High School of Am- sterdam, AVERAGES FOR THE BERG CUP FOR YEAR 1938-1939 Prom Election Industry and Govern:rnent Meetings Syste.m Proposed To Be Held Wednesday and Thursday No. Plus .1 Inter- Aver. for men bater- 4.000 4;000 Cup nity No. of Actual Fraternity Members Aver. & ove1· &over 1. Kappa Nu ......... 33 3.614 13 1.3 2. Alpha Delta Phi ... 22 2.996 3 .3 3. Delta Phi .......... 26 2.706 5 .5 4. Phi Sigma Delta ... 24 2.616 4 .4 5. Delta Upsilon ... , .. 38 2.470 3 .3 •e. Theta Nu Epsilon . 7 2.434 1 .1 7. Lambda Chi Alpha . 24 2.410 2 .2 8. Psi Upsihm ........ 33 2.390 3 .3 9. Delta Chi .......... 14 2.327 1 .1 10. Beta Theta Pi ..... 29 2.325 3 .3 11. Phi Gamma Delta . 28 2.319 3 .3 12. Sigma Chi . . . . . . . . . 21 2.307 1 .1 13. Kappa Sigma . . . . . . 23 2.225 1 .1 14. Chi Psi ......... , .. 29 2.214 1 .1 15. Sigma Phi . . . . . . . . . 21 2.164 2 .2 16. Phi Delta Theta ... 33 2.159 2 .2 17. Phi Sigma Kappa .. 23 2.154 2 .2 18. Theta Delta Chi . . . 22 1.996 2 .2 19. Kappa Alpha ...... 18 1.749 0 .0 Aver. 4.914 3.296 3.206 3.016 2.770 2.534 2.610 2.690 2.42'7 2.625 2.619 2.407 2.325 2.314 2.364 2.359 2.354 2.196 1.749 Rank +45 +21 +10 +6 +1 -1 -2 -3 -5 -5 -6 -6 -9 -10 -12 -12 -12 -19 -28 , By Committee Action On Proposal By Student Council Expected Wednesday The complete proposal, which has been passed by the executive committee, setting forth a new system whereby members of the Junior Prom Committee will be appointed instead of elected will be presented to the Student Coun- cil for its approval tomorrow night. ·The proposal reads as follows: ··Less than 10 members- Not eligible to compete for Berg Cup 1. That the Prom Committee be appointed by the President of the Student Council and the President of the Junior Class. All appointments are to be subject to the approval of the Executive Committee of the Student Council. Averages for the Garis Cup for Year 1938-1939 NO!'th College ......... 42 2.382 South College . . . . . . . . . 50 2.371 Oldgym Hall . . . . . . . . . . 26 2.334 5 5 3 .5 .5 .3 2.882 2.871 2.634 -3 -4 -5 All men's average ........... 2.466 Average for fr-a tNnities . . . . . 2.398 2. That the Committee be com- posed of o.ne ( 1) representa- tive from each fraternity and one from each dormitory Average for neutrals ........ 2.520 Dr. Frank Jewett Dr. Fox Urges Speaks Thursday Work for Others and two r 2) representatives from the day student group. All representatives are to be members of the Junior Class. 3. From this large committee the President of the Student Ctmncil and President of the Junior Class will appoint an Executive Committee to be composed of: Chairman of Prom Committee and Heads of Sub-Committees <Band, Decorations, Tickets, Fa- Steinmetz Lecturer To Discuss Worth Of Telephone Cables Dr. Frank B. Jewett, president of the Bell Telephone Laborato- ries, and 1939-1940 Steinmetz Me- morial Lecturer will speak at 8:00 p. m. Thursday evening in Memo- rial Chapel, it was announced to- day by T. M. Linville, chairman in charge of arrangements. Dr. Jewett will speak on \The Techni- cal Significance of the First Trans- continental Telephone Line.\ The lecture, which is the thirteenth in the series, is supported by the Steinmetz Memorial Fund, formed by donations of the friends and admirers of the famous inventor who taught electrical engineering on the Union campus for many years. Dr. Jewett is a graduate of Throop Polytecht:ic Institut~ ,now California Institute or l'echnology) where he received the degree of Bachelor of Arts, and, in 1903, that of Doctor of Philosophy from the University of Chicago. After leaving Chicago, Dr. Jewett was an instructor in Physics and Elec- trical Engineering at M. I. T. un- til 1904, when he became affiliat- ed with American Telephone and Teleg.raph Company. From 1908 to 1912, the present Steinmetz lec- tmer acted in the capacity of transmission and protection engi- neer with the same company. President Cites True Friendship in Daily Assembly Talk President Dixon Ryan Fox told vors, Invitations, Publicity). students and faculty in daily as- The Executive Committee is sembly today that \we are not giv- to be appointed following ing our full energies to things in interviews of leading candi- general. dates. \We are not using our social The representation on this Prom powers, that is, we're not doing Committee, Student Council Pres- things for other people,\ he con- ident Louis Carr, '40, explained, tinued. He advised students to would work out similar to that on cuh:ti~?\te. \ctondtributfing .. f r i e ~ndg~ tmheemSbteurdsewntoucldoucnocmilp. osTe wtheenteyn-ttwiroe s tps tns ea o consum1 friendships.\ To illustrate his point he told of the students who are group. friendly with others because they Each fraternity and dormitory, hope to get jobs from their fa- Carr suggests, should propose one thers. \This is not a true friend- of its juniors for membership. A ship,\ he claimed. choice by the two presidents will Dr. Fox told students that fra- have to be made in the case of ternities may seem to oppose the the day students unless they or- cultivation. of \true friendships,\ ganize and propose two men. 'l'he because friendships are made with element of popularity will be cut people with whom you have to be to the minimum in that each house friends. This Is not necessarily the will propose its best man so that case, he said, \Because in my own he later has a chance of being fraternity I found it most valuable picked for the Executive Commit- to cultivate friendships with stu- tee, Each man on the large com- dents 1 did not like so well at mittee will have a personal inter- first.\ view with the President of the Stu- In conclusion President Fox said dent Council and the President of that Union College was entering the Junior Class before any Execu- other days of pride. \In the past tive Committeemen are named. the college had had many days of In the past, Carr added, every pride and humiliation. It is en- member of the Prom Committee courE!-ging to know that by our . has received a free ticket and a own achievements and distinction, corsage. Owing to the nuwber we, ourselves, can add power and of men who will hold member- p~estige to the name of Union Col- ship on the Committee in the pro- lege.\ (Continued on Page 4) Jackson, McGoldrick, Heck, Carey Among Prominent Speakers at Conference To Be Held on Campus The second annual Conference on Industry and Govern- ment will open its two day s-essions on Wednesday afternoon. Among the speal{ers will be Robert H. Jackson, Solicitor General of the United States, W. Gibson Carey, Jr., Presi- dent of the United States Chamber of Commerce, Oswald D. Heck, Speaker of the New Yo1·k State Assembly, and Joseph D. l\lcGoldrick, Comptroller of the City of New York. Carr, Fox Discuss Relations With R. P. I. Since the painting of Payne Gate last Thursday night by stu- dents from Rensselaer Polytech- nic Institute, a rumor has been circulating on the campus that athletic relations with Union's rivals from Troy, New York, will be broken off after this year. Student Council President Lou- is Carr, '39, discussed the matter with Dr. Fox after the painting occurred, and, although nothing has been decided at this time. Carr revealed several interesting nmes. If the Student Council de- cides· at its. meeting tomorrow night that such a break would be advisable and expresses this wish by letter, Dr. Fox will incorpo- rate the point in his correspond- ence to President Hotchkiss of R. P. I. on the painting incident. In the past, when incidents of this characte\· pave occurred, the college whose students have done the damage have paid for the re- pairs. This year's conference will take up two major topics. The Wednes- day afternoon luncheon meeting and panel discussion will relate to the wider aspects of unemployment compensation, while the evening dinner meeting will be concerned with the effects of the European war upon business. Professor Mortimer F. Sayre, chairman of the program, an- nounced last night that Solicitor General Jackson had notified the college authorities that since the Supreme Com t had adjourned, he would be able to accept the invita- tion to attend the Conference. He will speak at the dinner meeting Wednesday night at which Mr. C:arey, who is a graduate and a trustee of Union College, will speak on \Effects Upon Business of the European War; A Business Man's Viewpoint.'' President Dixon Ryan Fox will be toastmaster at the din- ner. Open discussion will follow the two speeches. Sayre Is Chairman vVednesday afternoon's panel dis- cussion will concern \Unemploy- ment Insurance Laws; How Can They Be Improved?\ Those taking part under the chairmanship of Professo1• Sayre will be Milton 0. Loysen, Executive Director of the Division of Placement and Unem- ployment Insurance of the New York State Department of Labor; Sterry R. \Vaterman, Chairman of the Unemployment Compensation Commission of the State of Ver- mont; Gordon P. Eager, Adminis- trator of the New Hampshi1e Un- employment Compensation Divi- siot_I of the Department of Labor; Julms Emspak, General Secretary- Treasurer of the United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers of America; R. Smith Payne, Vice- President of the Associated Indus- tries of New York State; George W. Guth, Manager, Annuity and Insurance Department of the So- cony-Vacuum Oil Company; and H. E. Neil, of the General Electdc Company. Jewett Will Speak In 1912, Dr. Jewett accepted the position of assistant chief engi- neer of the Western Electric Com- pany, and was named to the post of <Continued on Page 4) ----0 Advanced Composition Class Students Have Fine Time in Class Mixing Humor With Creative Work Interfraternity Group Hears Dance Reports ~--------------------------------------------------- Thursday's sessions will begin at 10 o'clock with an address by Dr. Frank B. Jewett, president of the Bell Telephone Laboratories, in Daily Assembly. Immediately afte1· a forum will be held in Old Chapel upon the subject \Effect Upon Business of Continuance of Heavy Government Expenditure. The leaders will include Dr. Georges F. Doriot, professor of Industriai Management in the Graduate School of Business Administration of Harvard University, and Hon. Joseph D. McGoldrick, comptroller of the City of New York. Profes- sor Frederick L. Bronner will pre- side. Reports of the committee in charge of the Gridiron ball were heard at the regula1· meeting of the Interfraternity Council in the Student Activities office last night. A drawing was held for the choice of booths although the actual choosing will take place next week. President David Raynor, '40, announced that the respective houses will place their own furni- ture in their booths and that the Council will not hire a truck for the purposes. An announcement was made that tickets for the Interfratern- ity ball will remain at three dol- lars for alumni up to the eve- ning of the dance. Student tick- ets will go up to four dollars on November 6. Raynor explained this procedure by pointing out that many alumni will not know if they will attend the dance un- til that same evening. This policy has been followed in past dances. The question of cooperative buy- ing was again raised. The group decided, however, that after the unsuccessful attempt at putting the system to use last year, it would ·be impractical to start it again this year. The routine of Dr. Burges John- son's course in advanced composi- at the start of a class hour in the tion, also known stiffly as English best approved Johnsonian manner. 32, has had its share of type on , What isn't done-at least not any these pages, but only when attack- more-is apologizing. The good ed from the angle of what its mem- doctor has the habit, when one of bers do. The course, however, has his charges preceeds the reading \its lighter side yet.\ Without any of his latest masterpiece with a great fear of contradiction, the un- few well chosen words as to how biased journalist can generalize the reader can better appreciate and say that there just isn't any his work by laying emphasis on other class like it. this or that or the other thing, of telling that good soul that a little tidbit to eat during the next meet- ing of the class will be adequate. As yet, none of the offenders-and there have been a few- have come across, but a Johnson never forgets. It's indeed likely that on the eve of one of these errant individual's graduation, he will receive a note from the Dean's Office informing him that until he pays Dr. Burges Johnson three boxes of fig new- tons, his diploma will be held up. Along from their writing crea- tive literary work throughout the year, the members of the fortunate group that Dr. Johnson accepts for his class have a rousing fine time during their in class and out of class meetings. With the genial doctor setting the pace, the em- bryonic literary lights fling about some of the most devastating hu- mor that venerable Washburn Hall has absorbed in many a long year. One might term the course one in both advanced composition and repartee, and find, if you will, the dividing line. The thirteen students, after a few weeks under Dr. Johnson's tutelage, usually become expert mimics. Anyone of them is likely to burst out with \Whatcha got?\ Although class period are de- voted almost entirely to the read- ing and discussion of the writings of its members, the class has its opportunities to talk about those fortunate authors who have, at least, seen their work in print. Al- most the entire group trouped to Dr. Johnson's 1::\ome last Wednes- day night fm· a community meal and a sparkling discussion. Upon arriving at the homestead, the men were stripped of their jackets and handed aprons. Within a few short minutes, four of the eight would- be-successful-authors were respec- tively kneading chopped meat into hamburgers, sprinkling same with onions, cutting rolls, buttering same and cooking. The remaining four added sage comment and ad- vice. Dr. J. attempted several times during the evening to steal the skillet away from one of his students who seemed to be having the time of his young life frying hamburgers but to no avail. He was overpowered, so he wisely re- tired to the living room and ate the fruits of his charges' labors. Later in the evening Dr. and Mrs. Johnson brought out some poems written in French lyric verse forms for the attention of their guests.- The next day in class three men read original triolets to the astonishment of the professor. Now the crafty Doctor is subtlely emphasizing sonnets, and, lrr a day or so, Petrarch will start turning in his grave as English 32 goes marching on, Speaker Oswald Heck will dis- cuss \Increasing Government Con- trol of Industry\ in his luncheon address which will close the Con- ference. ----•0---- Thirty Study Speaking Under Dr. Kellogg Informal classes in public speak- ing are being conducted this sem- ester by Dr. George D. Kellogg who instituted the course on the campus last year. The group of approxi- mately thirty men meets weekly on Mondays at 5:00 P. M. in room 106 in the General Engineering build- ing, where they drill in pronuncia- tion, practice vocal exercises, and give short individual speeches. Choral exercises i.n enunciation and pronunciation are done in concert by the class, while \do's\ and \don'ts\ of public speaking are illustrated on the blackboard. Dr. Kellogg also distributes syllabi of rules of public spealtin.; to the class.

Page Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1939 our own students have committed these same AFFAIRS Fov !':flED 1877 \ • .J. Causa Pasa Parole :lssai\ \h·lltl·•t •·f tl.• .\-.:--···Lth(l l'\ll•!-':1-lh· Pt ....... :tll·i tll:--ll:·l!Uttl! o1f tht• l·'lo:},·kl,tlt· llit..::t·:-.1 1 l'H~;-:i~l~~\\:--j•,qw(-.-,[-tll-~' :--tadt•lltS (d L'~ l'•dlt·~··· l'llllh\'IP d Til• \\'Lt\ .ttnl 1-'raia,\:.; thrt~UL:h- \-1~ till ... :t.g. _\ttl • ___ • __ ·I·:ilTiurial lttHIIll'• ~~i~lla.tl. l'ttion l'ulf~·g~: l'.llll]•lb. 1\ lt•jtltti!W, ::-;,•ht ln·t\t' ·t-t.JL::.i. }».l.J.hlil·at-iullonh•t•, tTi~\T.\l/..~r·r·:--~. :J:il St•l~tZ-\ ~r.~ ~ !J•I••I.••!~.__..~_:_r~:·Jd.••IH· 1-\ltl Eultl•d .t~ til• ~.t; .... d.tdy l'u:--t ltft\ltT a .... ~~·~~-;ild l '1'-o:-~ :'d.d·: ::\[attd' ~ul-;::~i ip1~u}l Jtrlt t·-;-:1··-,,- .. -,-,-.,,\\r .. :t I nJ•Y: $;i !10 a ~ t'al'; •h•ll\l\l't•d :tH~\\]n·ll• Ill tla· l'llltt_•d Si:dt:-. Senior Board Lawrence V. Pellt>ttier, Jr ....... Editor-in-Chief 24 N. S. South College -6-9728 Robert R. Eisner ............ Business Manager Kappa :'\u House 4-7331 C. Russell D1•yo ............... :\1anaging Editor Chi P:;i Lodge -1-6527 George Loadwiek l'eelc .......... Sport.s Editor ti38 Cnion SL--6-3[!48 Christopher !H. :Fahy .............. News Editor Delta Upsilon Heuse- 4-7922 Edwin A. Fitz, Jr ................ Feature Editor 1::!54 Gknwo\<i R!Yd 4-2S67 Jad\ lmbinuwitz .......... Circulation :Manager Phi Sigma Delta House 6-0765 ····---·---- ----- --- REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVt.RTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. Cn/tege Publisbers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK. N.Y. CHICAGO • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO John Lewis Paul Becker Junior Board James Twining Robert Schulberg John Phillips Sophomore Board Alexander Arony, Armand Fiegenbaum, John Grow, Samuel Portnoy, Jonathan Pearson, Solo- mon Blechman Business Staff .Aiill.Y Kay, J u:5llll Pt..·rl:.;tt·iu, Stauh<Y Grt.:cnsteitl, 1 ,oua.ld II:ugh, !Ja~ltar SL'lt\\ artz, Arthur I>.av1::,, :\·I~ruu ~dill~. lssut' Editu1· ................. RuhHt Schulhl\rg Assistants Jame~ Twinin~ Armant.l Fiegenbaum Tuesday, October 31. 1939 TOWARD A BETTER UNDERSTANDING deeds. The critics refer to the fact that the com- petition between Union and R. P. I. has al- \vays been too spirited, and opine that there is little possibility of fostering the cordial relations between the two school::; that exists lJetwee11 Cnion and Ham.ilton. indeed! Have any attempts ever been made to effect this cordiality'? \Ve can recall none. Our student I council president annually gives an address 1 at ne1g.hburiag colleges, out not at H. 1'. l. : The captain of the Hamilton footlJall temn I is invited to speak 111 dai·ly assembly on the murniBg of the football game-and the H. lJ. l. captain'/ In out· opinion, the whole conception of ill 1 will uetween the two student lJodies is an 1 artificial one, and one which can t·eadily be I dispelled by a little intelligence and under- standing. \\' e feel that l'ep1·esentative stu- dents uf the two schools should take it upon I themselves to dispell this impression of ani- lmusit~·. Would it nut he possible for our I student council president to speak before I an U. P. l. assembJJ·, and ior the H. P. I. head to give a daily a::;semlJly address at Cnion'? Exchange editot·ials at appropriate times would also assist in this work. We ad vance the suggestion, the1·efo1·e, that a committee of union students be appointed to meet with a .similae group of R. P. I. students to discuss 1 methods of encouraging cordial relations be- tween the schools. lf attempts to encourage a better under- standing between the institutions fail, and if vandalism continues, we agree that the rivalry should be abolished. We do feel, how- ever, that students themselves should be given an opportunity to prove that no real acrimony exists l>efore any action is taken. OPPORTUNITY KNOCKS AGAIN Union indignation ove1· the recent painting of PaJ·ne Gate by R. P. I. students has now reached a point where there is considerable agitation to seve1· athletic relations with the Troy institution. Union men, still smarting under the sting- ·of this bit of vandalism, point out that the R. P. I. rivalry has always been a spirited one, and that our campus still bears several mementoes of the visit of R. P. I. students many years ag-o. They con- tend that there \\'ill always be depredations upon college property so long as this rivalry exists. One of the most common charges levelled against American colleges is that their teach- ings are too theoretical in nature. The col- leges m·e accused of teaching idealistic doc- trines which will receive a severe rebuff when the student leaves the cloistered cam- pus and attempts to put his collegiate theor- ies into practice. TomolTO\V Union opens its second annual Conference on Industry and Government. Outstanding business men, legislators and educators will convene on our campus to dis- cus problems common to the interests repre- sented. Union students are invited to attend the sessions of the Conference; the regular registration fee is to be waived for under- In a ·crisis such as that which now confronts the world, there is never a ::;carcity of people who boldly p1·oclaim that they have found the solution and will gladly lead the way to a better life if only other,; will follow. We know from J.U:5t t~X}JL'l'il'llt.'C U.tld ftOill CUlllillUll St_ln~e that rnc~t of thPse seherne:-' on!~· cn•ate more di.fficuHies than lh<'Y ll'lllt•dy. \\'e can, lmwt•\'t'l', l'X· p1·c•ss om· g1atitude to the formu- lators fur thllil' genl•t uus oft\ets ut u.:;sistancl'. It is only occasionally t lutt ::;uch gene! e~oit~, when vitow<'u in light ut\ known fael.b, atuU~l's a bit of anger. It is to cne of these 1 ai·e exception:; that we turn tut.lay. As Britain mobilizes her It'· ::;ouree~ in anticipati0n of a lung struggle, the fiery, wartime Prime :-linister, Lloyt.l George, u1 ge:; a eunfe1 encc for the pettceful settlt- tnent of Eutopt!s troubles. Su1d~· :;uch a p1 e~posal seems tPmpting and .,;ount.l. It appeals so senseles.; to usu co:;tly ant.l honible fOI·CC when the cunfei ence table can well :;el'\'e as the battlefield. The voice uf Lloyc! Geoige seems like thL• one bit of ~unity audible amid th<' talk ot fools. So it 1·emains until v. t• luok bad< inlo the past. Sh01 tly after an a1 mistice wa,; signet..! in HJlo, a handful of men Iepiesc'nting the great puwe1s ol thl' WDilt.l a~st•mblP<i in F1ancP. Flushed with victmy, they had sup- pcset.lly come to establish a just and pel manent peace. A good pol- tiun of the land of the ea1 th and peuplo the1eon was put at thcii disposal to pa1cel out as they saw tit. Never befoie had there been :,;uch an opportunity to bring last- ing order out of chaos. One of the delegates, a bit idealistic, went to France fully a ware of his great re- :;ponsibilities. He p1·esented an un- selfish plan which might have well o;erved as a basis for a final peace. The rest of the delegates arrived intent on vengeance and acquisi- tion of a,; much matelial gain as possible. The II eaty which that famous conference finally pro- duced is familiar to all and need not be reviewed here. Suffice it to say that that treaty, which was greatly influenced by Lloyd George, i,; in large part responsible for the sad plight in which we find our- selves today. It must also be added that Lloyd George was one of those delegates whose vision was too nar- row to include the whole world. Yet he appa1ently still regards conferences as panaceas for all ills. When Lloyd George speaks of a peace parley it is natuml to won- der what sort of .settlement he has in mind. The leader of Germany will apparently settle only on his own terms, and it is hard to see how the allies can thus capitulate and still fulfill their promises to other nations. We are, however, at all times ready and eager for a peaceful discussion if such is pos- sible. We only hope that all taking part will have more foresight than Lloyd George, and, above all, we hope that we shall be spared from another Treaty of Versailles. JOHN A. RUSKOWSKI We agree with these critics that such wan- ton destruction is reason for righteous in- dignation, and thta if such vandalism is to be concomitant of the rivalry we would do well to find othe1· teams to 1·eplace R. P. I. on our schedule. On the other hand, however, we think that the matter should be given thorough consideration, and the case for the rivalry be presented befo1·e it vindictively be abolished. graduates. ON SCREEN This conference will afford Union men an II ideal opportunity to correlate their class room instruction with the views of men who ============!..! The defacing of Union ptope1'ty is angrily cited by the critics. Can Union, however, plead complete innocence to a similar de- struction of Troy property? We think not. At the same time Payne Gate was being painted, Union students \vere in Troy \ob- sel-ving\-at 2:30 a. m. Possibly it was a Jack of opportunity rather than of inclination that prevented the Union \observers\ from darnaging R. P. I. property. This rivalry is a natural one, as evidenced by the large attendance at the game each year as well as by the fact that athletic rela- tions have been broken previously, only to be re-established a few years later. R. P. I. is our oldest rival, and severing connections would mean the abolition of a contest which neither athletic department can well afford to lose. The gate receipts for Saturday's game, for example, were approxi- mately five times as much as was realized at either the Trinity or Middlebury games. Certainly gate receipts should not dictate our athletic schedule, but neither should the program of our athletic department be cur- tailed merely because we arbitrarily decide to drop a school from our schedule for the deeds of a few of its misguided studeBts- especially when we consider that several of are outstanding in their respective fields. Such prominent men as W. Gibson Carey, President of the United States Chamber of Commerce; .i\lilton Loysen, Directo1· of the Division of Placement and Unemployment Insurance of New York State; Oswald D. Heck, Speaker of the State Assembly; J·oseph D. JlcGoldrick, Comptroller of the City of New York; and Georges Doriot of the Harvard School of Business Administra- tion will speak on and discuss topics of cur- rent import. It will not be theory that these men bring to om· campus, but will be rather a point of view distilled from years of experience. Is there disparity between the teachings of our class rooms and those of the school of ex- perience? That question will be answered. And once again, opportunity knocks! TRAVESTY The New York Times is beginning to con- tinue where it left off in 1918. The headline of the yesterday morning was, to say the least, somewhat biased. In bold type, the fact is blazoned fm·th that the Germans (politely referred to as \Nazis\) have captured and are holding an American ship because of contraband. In the last line of a long series of sub- heads in comparatively small type is refer- ence to the fact that Britain holds \4 or 5 ships\. What price neutrality? Columbia Spectator Held over at the State are Inter- mezzo-A Love Sto1·y and U-Boat 29, both of which are worth closer scrutiny. The main attraction in the former, you remember, is In- grid Bergman, a capable young lady with a generous consignment of animal spirits. Edna Best and John Halliday accompany her ably, but a combination of misfortunes- like Gregory Ratoff's spotty direc- tion and the casting of a pair of self-conscious brats as the musi- cian's children-makes her debut less auspicious than it deserves to be. U-Boat 29, on the other hand, is a well-paced melodrama of espion- age, counter-espionage and anti- counter-espionage. I spy, you spy, he spies: we all spy. Conrad Veidt is ordered by the Imperial German Navy to sneak up on the British fleet at Scapa Flow to wrealt a bit of havoc. Further orders will be given by a schoolteacher at one of the Orlmey Islands. The school- teacher <June Duprez) is captured b~· German spies who thereupon substitute one of their number for her. Ah! but British Intelligence gets wind of the affair, seizes the pseudo-pedagogue and substitutes one of its agents <Valerie Hobson in order to lead Captain Veidt as- tray. There, now,--that's the plot. Read it again, but slowly.) Any- way. the direction is very stylish and the picture exceptionally good. PROCTOR'S The Old Maid describes the dif- ficulties Bette Davis encountered during the Civil War when George Brent got her in a family way without proper marital precautions. Miss Davis's conversion from youth to age owes a great deal to make- up . . . her characterization of an elderly woman is merely good, not brilliant. Snap judgment: an inter- esting psychological drama. -J.D.P. The Unhealthy Animal So went another football game. The crowd went home pleased with the exception of three men from the Berkshire Hills. It Sl'l'ms the vVilliamses not only were• a bit perturbed by Union's actions on the field, but over Lw public addrrs;; sy~tcm came Tuft~ 14, WiJ:liams 1'2. Now isn't that just too bad. Spealung of the ga:mP, how did you li'lu' the' ont• ma-n C\hPerin~-: st•ction in the enticing red tw.t he had the :;pi I it necdet.l. The Alpha Delta hut.l a busy aft ernoon and evening. Reason? In- formal party after the game and general check-up on Charlie Clowe's deat.l flame. IH spite 0f all of their wmries, she eluded them setting a Vl'ry fast pacP to boot. This must be the fast pacing season. George the :\iiller could not be satisfied with one date, he had five. Count 'em, one, tWl•. three, foUl, f.ive. None of thi\ d1op 'em and run stuff, eithct·. He had them all at the sam~ tinll'. Sound,; like fun. The Beta's ant.l the Chi Psi's entertained \datldy\ this past week ('nd. You picked a hot week <·nd, nll'n. I imagine thPy had a very fine time. One of the old grads 1 '09) wandered towards Tony·~ and imagine hi~ chagrin when he found himself at a char- red bar. At last the cloud of mystery has arisen from the green Mer- cury. And she's lovely from Northampton, It seems that Houghton '43, \out\ as in passing) is a fortunate young man; besides having such a lovely girl, he has her cat·, too. Nice work if you can drive it. -T.B. DeWitt's Lunch Room and Tap Room We serve better food for better health 118-120 JAY ST. Opp, New City Hall SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Quality Food-Always Open One step from State St. LOUIS WASSERMAN Cj)UALITY MEAT MARKET 354 B'way Ph. 4-3364, 4-3365 For DeLuxe Coaches CALL G. A. WELCOME &SON 1711 UNION ST. Phone 4·9444 CALENDAR Wednesday 10:00 p.m.-·Daily Assembly. Speaker, Anthony F. Barbieri, · '40. \The Non-Fraternity Man at Union.\ 11:00 am. to 7 p.m.-U-!1ion Col- lege Conference on Industry and Governnwn.t. Old Chapel and HalP House. Thursday ~O:OU a.m. Daily Assembly. SpPaker. Frank B. Jewett, President 0f the Bell Tele- phone Labot.:at0l'ies and Vice President 0f the American Telephone and Telegraph . Company. 10:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.-Un,jon College Con.ference pn Indus- try and Government. Old Chapel and Hal'e House. ts:OO p.m. Steinmetz Memorial Lecture. Speaker, Elr. Frank B. Jewett, Memerial ChapeL F•liday 10:00 a.m. Daily Assembly. Or- gan recital. Dr. Elmer A. Tid- marsh. l'HI SlGlHA DELTA !'LEDGE Phi Si~ma Delta Fmternity an- nounces thP pledging of Marvin Epstein, '43, of BayonnP, New Jer- sey. C. S. M 0 0 D Y Optometrist Eyes Examined, Glasses Fitted 115 B'way TPlephone 6\5747 Three Doors from State St. Make Your Meeting Place at REUTER'S BOWLING ACADEMY 148 Clinton St. Interested in Schenectady Interested in UNION MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Street Jeweler 166 Jay St. Watch and Jewelry Repairing a Specialty PARKER and WATERMAN PENS PHONE 4-5614 Everything Elec:trieal JAS. F. BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. Sch'd N Y y, .. Starting THURSDAY World Premiere \DRUMS Ai~~G MOHAWK\ From the best seller novel by Waite•· 0. Edmonds - PHOTOGRAPHED IN TECHNICOLOR - Thursday Eve.-On Stage--In Person Joan Arlet'n Lynn Arthur DAVI~ . WHELAN • BARI . ~fiELDS SeP-And HPUI' ThPm at Proetor's-IN PERSON * Joseph F., Connelly for Mayor .. 1' f ·0 Schenectady DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE u Va Du u look BOO'! lead mee T inei nee! 52: Af imm off, UniE ball imrr offe the Hall twu and Gui !me pas: Ker bor· wal fou He his by pla• c an wh mo for ina led anc ya1 Wl thE ag: she piE mE w R. wl se' U1 in fo ell t'\1 sc bl to

' 7 THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1939 Page Three UNION DO~VNS R. P. t IN 38th GAME OF SERIES Vannier and Ha~m:merstrc~m Lead Dutchmen to 26 to 6 Triumph Hillick Stopped by Engineers in Third Period ~--------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------- Tro:jan Freshmen Down GarnetT eam Guibert, Norris Each Score Once, Captain Twice As Garnet Outplays Engineers in All Periods Union's l:lndefeated varsity football team made winning look easy in its fifth game of the sea:.;on on Saturday after- noaa. With Captain Sam Hammerstrom and Jack Vannier leading the attack, the Garnet conquered R. P. I. in the 38th meeting of the two rivals, 26 to 6. The effectivene&s of Union's fast-charging line was prom- inent throughout the afternoon as it held the Fighting Engi- neers to 17 yards by rushing during the first half and only 52 yards for the remainder of the g'ame. After being held for three playo~·~-------------­ STATISTICS OF GAME U R.P.l. First downs . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 3 · Fkst downs 1 ushing ..... 14 2 Fir:2t downs passing. . . . . 2 0 First downs penalties.... 1 1 Yards gained rushing .... 234 69% Yard gained passing .... 89 -7 Total yards gained ...... 323 62 1 r~ Passes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 5 Passes completed . . . . . . . 4 0 Passes Intercepted by. . . . 2 2 Avg. distance of punts .. 34 30 Failure to Convert Results in Loss, 7-6, To Traditional Rivals Failure t.u convert on a·n at- ' tempted pas.o·, after· scoring their 'only touchdown of thP ganw, cost ·the Union frosh the game Satur· day, with their traditional rivals frC'm R. P. I. R. P. I. kicked off to open the game, Union returning h> the 33- yard line. After an· exchange of !ticks had ,;et the home team back , on itti own six-yat d stri·pe, Wilwff ~ punt~d to midfie!U where an over- , anxious Trojan back fumbled. 'Slinger lam~ recovered and Union began its offensive. Green passed 25 ya.rds to LeRoy, putting the ball on the 32. Then Don Quig- wy, aided by good blocking, dash- eel off tackle to the RC'nssalaer ('ight, and on the n~xt play Quig- ley pa.ssed to Wikoff, who stepped over for the score. The aH im- portant pa,;s-attempt for the ex- tra point wa:; grabbed by an op posing bnf'k, leaving thP >'C'ore 6-0. Fumbles Hampt>r R. 1'. I. immediately fol10wing the kick- off, H. P. I. was forcea to punt. Union gained possession of the ball on its own 46-ya·rd line and immediately began an impressive offensive which sparkled during the entire game. Vannier and Hammerstrom gained six yards in two plays when Vannier faded and threw a 30-yard pass to Jack Gutbert, who ran from the 18-yard !me to the one after taking the pass over his shoulder. A heavy xensselaer line put up a stub- born defense with its back to the wall and it took Hammerstrom four tries to score from the one. He then added another point to his fast-rising total for the year by kicking the extra point from placement. gained the next first down, going 18 yards around left end and then added four more through center. A forward pass from Hammer- strom to Norris put the ball on the R. P. I. five-yard line. After trying three times, Hammerstrom scored his second touchdown of the game thr0ugh center. His at- tempt at conversion was blocked. Shrrry Hillick, sophomore halfback, is just bein g taclded as he goes around right end during the thu·d period of the Union-R. P. !. tussle. Other Union players in the pictw\e are Ed Eustice (76) on the ground and Fred Burns (61) running towards the camera. Photo hy ,\. E. Lowentlml. · ll The Trojans sent in a full new team for the second period, but fumbling continued to spoil thdr uffem;ive. This time it wa~ ('laude Johnson, who dropped the slip- pery pigskin, and Union threat- ened to score again. Quigley went around end for nine ~·arus and Green made it first down on the 39-yard line. A minute later, how- ever, Nensteil intercepted for the engineers. Coach Graham sent his first team back in and R. P. I. New Unlon Team Coach Nels Nitchman inserted an enHrely new team including a whole new backfield of sopho- mores, to start the second period for the Garnet. Again Union dom- inated the play as sophomores, led by Ed Eustice, Sherry Hillick, and Bob Killian, ran the ball 50 yards, making four first downs. When R. P. I. dug in to repuls·e the Union seconds, the varsity again took the field. An attempted short pass on the varsity's first play lost the ball for the Dutch- men as Gus Gieb, Cherry and White right half-back, intercepted. TUESDAY QUARTERBACK by Harriers Lose Final Home Meet Yearling Runners Defeated by R. P. I. Failing to make a first again, R. P. I. ldcked to its own 37 from which point the Garnet began its second touchdown drive. The Union captain made a first down in two plays through the line be- fore Vannier made six around end. After Hammerstrom made two more yards, George Norris scored on a 19-yard run on a dou- ble reverse. Hammerstrom failed to score the extra point. Off Again Coach Nitchman used a total of 17 reserves throughout the aft- ernoon. The success of the sopho- mores in the second period made the prospects for the years to come bright. Frequent injuries and tired players accentuated the Engineers lack of rese.•ve strength. Four thousand, five hun- dred spectators, many of them forced to stand, paid admission to see the game. The Dutchmen outgained the Engineers in every department. Rensselaer was able to gain only 70 yards by rushing while the Garnet eleven piled up 234 yards and scored 17 first downs to R. P. I.'s two. Union completed four of its seven attempted passes for a total of 89 yards while the En- gineers failed to complete one pass. ----o•----- INTRAMU RALS The football field meet will be held today and tomorrow, October 31 and November 1. A full program will be held both days. Fry Day Union played football Notre Dame style Saturday. Eleven mer. were substituted at a clip. * After seeing his former charges cut his line to ribbons and stop his backs cold, \DU!{e\ Nelson proba- bly wished he was still wearing a garnet hood rather than the eherry and white one he affects nowadays. * Now that the game is over, this story can be told. Coach Nitchman had an entire defense procedure charted in the players' locker room, but not for the Union team. It was for \Duke\ to notice if he happened into the locker room before the game, and it was completely errone- ous. * * * Santoro Takes First For Garnet Varsity In Defeat by R. P. I. Running Union's 4.7 mile cross country trail in competition for the last time, co-captain Paul San- toro of Union chalked up his sec- ond first place of the season Satur- day crossing the finish line fifty- five seconds ahead of the star R. P. I. harrier, Vic Head. Head, Burns. Nelson, and Baltus of R. P. I. took second, third, fourth, and fifth places, however, to win the meet for the engineers by a score of 23-32. Co-captain Frank Melewicz and Bill Johnson, both running Union's course for the last time, took sixth and ·seventh. \Doc\ Maines placed eighth to give Union a total of four places in the first ten. The summary: 1. Santoro, Union ......... 26:29 2. Head, R. P. I ............ 27:24 3. Burns, R. P. I. .......... 27:34 4. Nelson, R. P. I. ......... 27:44 5. Baltus, R. P. I. .......... 27:49 6. Melewiez, Union ......... 27:5() 7. Johnson. Union .......... 28:07 8. Maines, Union ........... 28:22 9. Conklin, R. P. I. ......... 28:40 10. Troupe, R. P. I. ......... 28:40 11. Huntley, R. P. I. ........ 29:06 Union's yearling z·unners went down to their second defeat of the season Saturday on the college freshman cross-country trail. Fout R.P.I. han iers cros::ed the line to win the meet for the Cherry and White by a score of 38-17 .before Quinn of Union placed fifth for the garnet. Klinkow, Purdy, Snell, and Jacobs were the other Gat net run- ners who placed in the first ten. Quinn's taking fifth place was a surprise to many for Klinkow's record has been more impressive so far this year. Jacobs of Union, who was the first Garnet runner to cross the line in the Nott Terrace meet, ran tenth. The summary: 1. Davis, R. P. I. 16:25 2. Tolgi, R. P. I. ..... , ... 16:25~ 3. Fallon, R. P. I, ........ 16:37 4. Warren, R. P. I. ....... 16:44 5. Quinn, Union .......... 17:01 6. Klinkow, Union ........ 17:08 7. Favory, R. P. I. ........ 17:14 8. Purdy, Union , ... , ..... 17:20 9. Snell, Union ........... 17:21 10. Jacobs, Union .......... 17:22 DALEY'S It was the captain again that sparked his team in its drive for another score shortly after Union had kicked off to the Engineers. Intercepting a pass on his own 20, Hammerstrom picked up a first down in two center rushes. Vannier then gained 13 more yards around left end and Ham- merstrom went through center again for 19. On a double re- verse, Fred Patrie gained 15 yards to set up Union's third touchdown. Vannier threw a 23-yard pass to Guibert in the end zone for the score to end the 80-yard march in six plays. Hammerstrom convert- ed frona placement just before the half ended. The events are as follows: Punt- Ing for distance (total distance of three punts), place kicking for distance (total distance of three kicks), passing for distance <sum distance of three passes), punting for accuracy (smallest yardage from goal line for three kicks) and place kicking or drop kicking for goals. The public address announcer made a little slip when he informed the crowd at one stage of the game that Union was sending its re- serves into the game. He said, \The Union storm troopers are entering the game.\ What he meant to say was the Union shock troops were going in. The boys in the press box chuckled so loud over that one that almost without exception they lost track of the game for a few moments. 12. Larson, R. P. I. ......... 29:06 13. Lobel, R. P. I. .......... 29:08 14. Collins, Union ........... 29:14 -----0·----- NOTICE All students interested in form- ing a chess club and an intercol- legiate chess team are requested to leave their names with Dr. Stubing of the Modern Language Pivislon, Robert Davison at the Phi Sigma Kappa House or Maurice Duel at the Kappa Nu House. * * * Ta11,ing about serious errors, however, the press, completely un- intentionally, credited Captain Hammerstrom with the pass that led to the first touchdown. Jacl( Vannier threw it. And it was Jack Guibert, not Fred Patrie, who caught the heave that scored the third tally. GUERRA PHARMACY We deliver sandwiches and dJ.-ugs till 11 p. m. PHONE 6-9419 600 UNION ST. Cor. BARRETT Drugs, Prescriptions, Sundries SANDWICHES and LIGHT LUNCHES 'blue\ COAL • FUEL OIL • SEEDS ~ FERTILIZERS 15. Pearson, Union ......... 29:14 Unquestionably Favored! ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BELLEVUE DAIRY PHONE 4-2553 Featuring GOOD FOOD AND DRINKS BOOTH and COUNTER SERVICE 414 STATE ST. marched goalward to the Union 20. Here their offensive bogged down and the half ended with no further score. A few minutes after the kick- off the cherry sweatered lads started a sustained drive down the field which led to their first touchdown. Haller plunged from his own 31 to the 46-yard marker. MacFarland then added 12 more for a first down on the Union 12. Four more plays and the ball was on the 16 from which MacFar- land scored a minute later on an off tackle smash. Ed HHller plunged for the extra point which proved to be the winning mar- gin. Score by periods: Union ........... 6 R. P. I. ......... 0 0 0 0 7 0-6 0-7 1-------------------- 1Krauf.a Just around the corner on Eastern A'\'enue Quality Ice Cream Light Lunches OPEN TILL MIDNIGHT All the Latest Records at Cassedy's VICTOR BLUEBIRD COLUMBIA ~ DECCA VOCALION Victrolas - Sheet Music Musical Merchandise 460 State St. Near Proctor's The Fighting Engineers really fought during the early stages of the third period and quickly took advantage of two \breaks.\ Erny Magyar, Rensselaer left guard, in- tercepted a Union pass at mid- field, but after failing to make a first down in three plays, R. P. I. !ticked on fourth. The kick hit Johnny Krull, Union right guard and R. P. I. recovered on the Gar- net 25. Gus Gieb dashed around left end for 21 yards after being set back by a five-yard offside penalty to put the ball on Union's nine. George Shako finally scored for the Engineers after trying through line bucks. Diek Balch blocked Fred Schnatz's kick for the extra point. HIRAM J. McKAIN COMPANY \What's new, we show\ Wm. Green Jr. Phone 4·4448 Bob Baker received a fluke kick-off after R. P. I. had scored their only touchdown, and ran the ball back two yards. With Norris, Vannier and Hammerstrom alter- nating on line plays and reverses, the Garnet advanced 22 yards when Coach Nitchman substitut- ed his reserves. The sophomores reached the two-yard line after a sustained drive, but lost the ball on downs after getting their sig- nals mixed. 306·314 Union St. Famous Make SHIRTS $1.55 Values DAIRY PRODUCTS Union's· last touchdown came as the result of a drive which began late in the fourth period on the Garnet 49-yard line. Hammer- strom and Norris accounted for the initial first down of this march as Hammerstrom gained seven yards through taekle and Norris added four, taking the ball to the Rensselaer 31. Vannier Watch and Jewelry Repairing Engraving JAY JEWELRY CO. COR. STATE and CENTER STS. CLOVERLAND CREAMERY For Prompt Service MILK- BUTTER. EGGS • CHEESE- ICE CREAM Phone 6-8104 919 State St. $1 ~09 Hand Tailored TIES 65c VC~Iues 44c SNAPPY MEN'S SHOP 179 JAY ST. MILK CREAM • BUTTER EGGS • 1701 UnUon St. ICE CREAM CHEESE Phone 4-6173 :

·.1 Page Four Rev. Glenn Cites American Songs Rev. Leslie Glenn, D. D., spea~k­ ing at Sunday services in Memo- rial chapel, asserted that people do not pay enough attention to the words of the songs which they sing. \America \The Star Spangled Banner,\ and \The Battle Hymn of the Republic\ were cited by Dr. Glenn as anthems sung in this country without due regard for theit· meanings. He pointed GUt that in each of the first two the most commonly sung verse was the first which is actuaHy only an introduction and therefore does not contain thoughts of any real importance. The difference between Ameri- can and European songs is vast, according to Dr. Glenn, who said that one characteristic of Ameri- can anthems not shared by those sung in E u r o p e is the habit of lauding parts of districts of the nation. \Such songs as \Dixie\ and \The Sidewalks of New York,\ he said, \could not be sung in Europe because Europeans are required to give the whole of their loyalty to the national state. Sectional- Ism does not exist.\ \Grapes of Wrath,\ the book which got its title from a phrase in \The Battle Hymn of the Re- public,\ was praised by Dr. Glenn as fair and timely. He deplored the fact that everyone is not enum- erated in proportion to the work he doe,;. --a-- Newman Club Completes Dance Arrangements The Union College Newman Club has completed final arrangements for a combined informal dance with the Newman Club of Russell Sage on Friday night, November 3, in Saint Mary's Hall, Troy. The executive body of the club has re- cruited enough automobiles to transpm t forty men to the dance. The guest speaket· of the meet- ing Tuesday night was Father Slavin, Chaplain of the R.P.I. New- man Club. Father Slavin spoke on \Ethics of War.\ In his talk, he clabot a ted the Catholic viewpoint on the present war in Eumpe. Father Slavin is the Catholic news commentator on the Catholic Radio Guild Program over Sta- tion W ABY every Sunday after- noon at 3;45 o'clock. Freeman•s High Quality WALLPAPER PAINT GLASS For Past 142 Years Freeman & Son, Incorporated Phone 4-9155 12-20 Erie Blvd. Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market OUR MOTTO \Quality - Service Satisfaction\ 598 Broadway For Better Values LET THIS SYMBOL Be Your Guide in Buying ICE CREAM Produc:t of General lc:e Cream Corporation THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1939 Prognosticators Urged to Compete In First 'Concordy' Grid Contest' Step right up, prognosticatot,s! \•r--------------- Win '\The Concordiensis\ Football \ r-----------------1 Selection Contest and hel-p yourself . Concordiensis Football to two passes to Proctors Theatre. It's almost as easy as rolling off a Contest beer keg, 1. R. P. I ..... vs. Vermont ... . The order of procedure is simple. 2. Dattmouth .... vs. Yale ... . Merely check each team that you think will win the ten games listed 3. Harv'd . . . vs.l Princeton ... in the next column, 0r, if you think 4. Syracuse ... vs. Mich. St .. ·. a game wiH end in a tie, check 5. Auburn .... vs. Bost. Col. , .•• both teams. Clip out the blank and 6. Michigan .... vs. Illinois .... deposit it with some trusting. soul at the pub1ications office before 7. Minn. · · · · vs. N'western · · · · Saturday noon, and hope that you 8 Rice . . . . . vs. Fordham .... . called the correct B.p-sets. Should 9. Notre Dame ... vs. Army .. . two entrants' selections be iden- 10. Texas .... vs. Sou. Meth .... . tical, the one handed into the of- fice first will gulp the gravy, as the saying has it. When compiling this list of con- tests, its godfather.;; wisely decided not to include the all-important Union- Williams clash. Should the winning selector have picked Wil- liams to humble the Garnet, he probably never would be able to look his fraternity brothers in the eyes again. The result probably would be another human derelict with nary a friend to his name. \The Concordiensis\ Football Se- lection Contest wants no blood on its fair name. The games that have been chosen, nevertheless, should afford many a Union undergraduate a hearty headache. Don't despair, though, somebody has to win the blasted thing. The winner's name will be announced in Tuesday's \Concordiensis\. ---0----- StudPnt Conncil MePting There will be a meeting of the Student Council on Wednesday e\'!'ning at 7;45 p. m. in the Old Chapel. Terra.cP Cotmcil Will all members of the Terrace Council please call at the Student 1 Activities Office for their keys. \Call Ball and Ball Will Call\ In this scene from Walter Wanger's current hit ETERNALLY YOURS DAVID NIVEN, as the magidan, has put into the glass globe the right combination of ingredienls lo pro- ducethe beautiful LORETTA YOUNG ..• Just as the right combinalion of ingredients I the world's best ciga- rette tobaccos) are put together in CHESTERFIELD to give you Real Mild- ness and Better Taste. Name ......................... . Cla~s ........... . Address ..............• , ... , ••• , Check your selections. Tear out blan!{ and hand into \The Concordiensis\ office before noon Saturday, Novembet 4. The winning student will 1 c- ceive two passes to Proctors. In case of a. tie, the entry which is sl:lbmitted first will be judged the winner. Blodgett Addresses Club Dr. Harold W. Blodgett, assistant professor of English, is giving a series of four lectures before the Schenectady Woman's Club. His first lecture, on October 13, dealt with Shaltespeare, and the next two talks. on December 8 and Fe.bruary 9. will continue to describe this famous poet and playwright. BELLINGER PAINT CO. Arthur Trigg, Prop. Paints, Oils, Varnishes, Glass Brushes and Wallpaper 126 BROADWAY P H 0 N E 6-3456 Copyright 1939, LIGGB'I'T & MYERS ToBACCO Co. D!r. Frank Jewett Speaks Thursday (Continued from Page 1) chief engineer of the same concern in 1916. In 1922, he was elected vice president of Western Elec- tric, and in 1925 assumed his pres- ent post as President of the Bell Telephone LabOJ'atories, and Vice President in charge of American Telephone and Te!Pgraph Com- pany's resea-rch. Dr. Jewett is, at prc>sent, head of the National Academy of Sci- ence and president of the New York Institute mf Science, as well as trustee of the Camegi Founda- tion. He has received the Faraday Medal given annually by the Eng- lish Academy of Science to the man most prominent in the field of electro-physics throughout the wol\ld. He has also been awarded the John Phipps Medal awarded for electrical engineering develop- ment. C. W. LaPirre, chairman of the Schenectady district group of the Amet·ican Institute of Electrical Engineers, has announced that the entire society will attend the lec- ture and other scientific groups in the capitol district are also planning to be present. SUITS Cleaned-Pressed TWO SUITS Cleaned and Pressed 8 ~oT: 93c Call for and Deliver \for Studenh Who Care\ 12 Elm St. Phone 3-1775 Chi Psi, Beta Theta Pi Hold Fathers' Weekend Two fraternities held a Fathers'. Weekend during the past Saturday and Sunday. Chi Psi and Beta Theta Pi members entertained their respective paternal .parents. As in past years, the fathers at- tended a football game and saw, this year, Union overpower R. P. I. Unlike former years, however, the remainder of the weekend was spent almost entirely in a general gathering between fathers and sons. Chi Psi entertained at a buffet suppet· after the game. Rl:lssell Deyo, '40, head of the house, a~d Rev. Herbert Houghton, chaplam of the college, spoke bt iefly. Beta Theta Pi also held a buffet supper to which the mothers as well as the fathers were invited. ---·-0--- Cane Winners Those sophomores and freshmen who left canes at the Student Ac- tivities Office to be inscribed may get .them by calling at that office. Prom Election System Proposed by Carr <-Continued from Page 1) posed system, this will be virtually impossible. Carr suggests . that these men be given a reductiOn of 50 per cent on their tickets. This matter, however, wHI be discussed after the proposal! has been ap- proved or d-isapproved by the en- tire Student Council at its meeting tomorrow night. Carr also requested that any stu- dent who has any criticisms or sug- gestions for the proposed plan speak with a Student Counciol mem- ber befGre t0morrow evening. Bellevue Cj)uality Baker-y 2625 B'way Phone 4-6248 BREAD- BOLLS· PASTBY Gazette Press Printers Schenectady Engraving Co. 147 JAY STREET ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORDIENSIS ness cuut~et~U~ze CHESTERFIELD'S RIGHT COMBINATION of the world's best cigarette tobaccos You'll enjoy every Chesterfield you smoke because you'll find them cooler, you'lllike the taste, and Chesterfields are definitely mildero There's a big preference for the cigarette that really satisfies. Chesterfield's RIGHT COMBINATION of the world's best cigarette tobaccos is the perfect blend to give you more smoking pleasure. Make your next pack Chesterfield ... you can't buy a better cigarette. z, Vo1 = .A arr pm an rna wa. me 01< 1 ter ch< -det ac1 thE ce1 of se' COl tee th• co: me ar ev co do hi: on di: R: H: PI R. ch tVI re pr in th N e< 01 It w a1 SE cl o: a· w p T a ~~ a t] 'L c v b s I t n e a , 0 e a s

