the ding T, 'endent. m, Weekly ::>a ceo. 3' ES, RS, ;z:c.' CTADY. THE CONCORDIENSIS. VoL. I. . ScHENECTADY, N. Y., January, 1878. No.3· UNION UNIVERSITY. REV. E. N. POTTER, D. D., PRESIDENT. UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. -0- I. CLASSICAL CouRsE.-The Classical Course is the usual bacca- laureate course of American colleges. Students may be permitted to pursue additional studies in either of the other courses. . z. .SciENTIFIC CouRSE.-ln the Scientific Course the modern lan- guages are substituted for the ancient, and the amount .of mathematical and English studies is increased. 3· SCHOOL OF CIVIL ENGINEERING.-The student in this depart- ment enjoys advantages nowhere surpassed, in the course of instruc- tion, in its collectiOn of ·models, instruments and books, the accumulations of many years by the late Professor Gillespie, and also in unusal facilities for acquiring a practical knowledge of instrumental field work. 4· EcLECTIC CouRsE.-An Eclectic Course, consisting of studies selected at pleasure from the preceding courses, may be taken by any one who, upon examination, is found qualified to pursue it. On the completion of this a certificate of attainment will be given. There are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, Metallurgy and Natural History. For Catalogues, or for special information, address G. C. E. M. JENKINS, REGISTRAR, Schenectady, N. Y. GARBRANCE, Fashionable Hatter, AND GENTS FuRNISHING SToRE, No. 626 Broadway, Albany, N. Y. First Block North of Delavan House, & P. 0. JAMES H. BARHYTE, BOOKSELLER AND STATIONER, AND PUBLISHER OF Jackson's Mechanics, Optics, Acoustics, Trigonometry and Conic Sections. Also on hand PROF. TAYLER LEWIS' WoRKS. College Rooms Papered and Deco-rated. Binding done to order. III STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. ALBANY MEDICAl: CoLLEGE.-Term commences First Tuesday in September and contmues twenty weeks. The plan of instruction combines clinical teaching, With lectures. Special opportunities for the study of chemistry and of practical anatomy. ExPE!\s:Es.-Matriculation fee, $s. Term fee, $IOo. Perpetual Ticket, $rso. Graduation fee, $25. Dissecting fee, $s. Fee for labora- tory course, $ro. Histological course, $ro. For Circulars, address, PROF. JACOBs. MOS~ER, M.D., REGISTRAR, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. THE ALEANY LAw ScHOOL.-The Course of Instruction consists of three terms: the fin;t commencing September 4th, the Second N ovem- ber 27th, and the third i\iarch sth; each term consisting of twelve weeks. The advantages for the study ot the l~w, at Albany, are as great as can be found anywhere. The Law L1brary of the State is open to Students; the General Terms of the Supreme Court of the Third Department, and all the terms of the Court of Appeals. l'~ee for single term, $so; for two terms, $go; for three, $r3o. For information, address ISAAC EDWARDS, LL.D., DEAN, Albany, N. Y. THE DUDLEY OBSERVATORY. This Department of the University is located at Albany, and is devoted especially to Astronomy and Meteorology. For information, address PROF. LEWIS BOSS, Albany, N. Y. NOTMAN PHOTOGRAPHIC STUDIO 55 NORTH PEARL STREET, ALBANY, N. Y. Photographers of YALE, HARVARD, PRINCETON, WESLEYAN, DARTMOUTH, LAFAYETTE, AN- DOVER, ABBOTT, PHIL. EXETER, PHIL. ANDOVER, vASSAR AND UNION. PLAIN AND COLORED PHOTOGRAPHS FROM LOCKET SIZE TO FULL l.~IFE SIZE. GROUPS, CoMPOSITION PHoTOGRAPHS AND VIEWS. COLLEGE ALBUMS IN GREAT VARIETY. VELVET FRAMES, CARTE DE VISITE, VERY CHEAP. ~ Our Art Gallery always open to visitors, and ex- planations freely given.

THE CONCORDIENSJS . . . 11 ALBERT LAWTENSLAGER, WILLIAM STOOPS, MANUFACTUHrNG MERCHANT TAILOR, AND DEALER IN CLOTHS, CAssrMERES, VESTINGS, ETc., JEWELER I07 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. AND W·OOD BROS., DIAMOND SETTER, 594 BROADWAY, A N Y . SHIRTS MADE TO ORDER AND READY MADE. L13ANY, . • • A LARGE LINE OF UNDERWEAR. ALL THE LA TEST STYLE SCARFS, TIES, COLLARS, &c. Orders for any College Badge solicited and filled with the best material which the market I 33 STATE STREET' ScHENECTADY, N.Y. affords. BOOTS AND SHOES . . WALTER F. HUitCOMB & CO., MERCHANT TAILORS AND IMPORTERS, Particular attention given to custom work and repa1r1ng. JULIUS BALLART, Agent, 15 NORTH PEA.RL STREET, ALBANY, N. Y. 245 State Street, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. VANITY FAIR, FoR MEER8CHAUM AND CIGARETTES. ~DOES NOT BITE THE TONGUE.~ Our . Cigarettes are as fine as can bn produced. Only the best French Cigarette Paper is used, which is free from mineral and other injurious substances. L'AMERIQUE, CoRRECT THING FOR DINNER AND WHIST PARTIES. A delicious Cigarette, of Perique and Vanity Fair. Samples, 15 cents. Highest Award, Vienna, :r873, and Centennial, :r876. Our PEERLESS and PLAIN FINE CuT CHEWING are unsurpassed- the only brands receiving the Vienna Award. Always Uniform and Reliable. (5 Prize Medals.) WM. S. KIMBALL & CO., Peerless Tobacco Works, Rochester, N.Y. BYRON E. NEAR, STATIONER AND JOB PRINTER UNION HALL BLoCK, ScHENECTADY, N. Y. ~AGENTS FOR COOKE'S RUBBER STAMPS. GEO. J. SWORTFIGUER & SON, Nos. 55 and 202 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY, N. ·y. CROCKERY. China, Glass and Earthenware, Kerosene Lamps, Silver Plated Ware, Cutlery, House Furnishing and Fancy Goods. OSCAR D. REXFORD, DEALER IN CHOICE GROCERIES, TEAS, COFFEE~ SPICE~ TOBACCOS AND CIGARS. 265 State Street, ScHENECTADY, N.Y. - v

.Y. DE. Y. N. Y. Y. N, • Silver Goods. N. Y. THE CONCORD lEN SIS. VoL. I. ScHENECTADY, N. Y., JANUARY, 1878. No. 3· LITERARY. THAT LETTER. He knows the day, almost the hour When he shall seize the treasured prize ; And, watching, when the mail comes in, He tells the story with his eyes. What is it paints his manly cheek, Dispels the shadow fron1 his soul, Shoots rays of sunshine from his eyes? Lights up and beautifies the whole! Not tinted sheet with edge of gold; Nor violet -jet, in beauty traced; Nor rounded sentence, classic skill, Though be the whole with po'try graced.· Nor is it yet the jeweled hand That all in silence traced the lines; Nor yet the rosy dimpled cheek; Nor silvery voice like evening chimes. If these were rtll, he'd soon forget rrhe very birth-day of the flower ; The charming fragrance of the bud Would breathe in vain its magic power. If these were atl, the violet curves, As disappears the parting day, Would softly, yea but surely fade, The tinted sheet grow old and gray. The sparkling rays of sunny hope, Reflected from his eyes before, Would pass ·behind a gloomy cloud, And there go out to shine no n1ore. To him, the rose would have no charm, The 1 ' dimple\ might to wrinkles grow; Poetic lines the jeweled hand Around hin1 vainly now could throw. But, ah, 'tis more , this i.s not all, These are but fringe that gild the whole, And fading rays that e'er escape Frmn out the windows of the soul. Why is it sunshine never fails, And sumn1er's music's ever heard? Behind the shining shines the sun ; Behind the music sings the bird. So hid beneath these lines ~nd curves, There lies far richer, truer wealth, Surpassing far all outward grace, It is her own, her own true self. Ovocz~. LOYAL'fY· TO ALMA MATER. What relation does a student bear to the college of his choice? Is it simply so tnuch instruction for so much money, and when the bills are paid, is the rna tter ended? Does the institution that furnishes him kno\vledge stand on the same footing as those which sell him any thing else, and deserve as little gratitude ? That is what most graduates practically declare when they get into the world. But it is not true. The relation is not commercial, but per- sonal-not only personal but filial. \ Honor thy father and thy mother,\ said the voice on Sinai, and every human heart has re- cognized the sacredness of their claims, yet why does one's Alma Mater deserve less honor than a natural parent ? She is the mother of his higher life-the mental. She watches over him as faithfully, almost as affectionately. She develops his better povvers-recei ves him weak, sends him forth strong. A college is not merely a mass of buildings and apparatus. Walls, libraries, museums are but its lifeless body. It has a spirit. She is personal. The transfused life of those who loved her has made her animate. Hundreds of minds have gone to form her one great mind. The unselfish devotion and anxious sympathy, which many hearts have shown, beam from her countenance. A spirit, gathered out of many years, broods over her foster-children. The relation thus established cannot be mercenary. Money cannot acquit us of such a debt. The services of her benefactors and devoted teachers

\ being freely given,. cannot be bought. There same man won a me§al; nor need we feel is loving care on the one side, there must be obliged to ground our faith wholly on this one loving care on the other. In our youth she: man, for he was beaten in two events at our nurtures us, in our manhood let us comfort her. Fall meeting here. Let us at all times carry the thought, that Many of us are willing to, and do spend some THE CONCOR:DJENSIS. z6 once there came to us through Alma Mater time and money e<JJch year for the promotion gracious influences, which the givers would have .• of an athletic spirit in the college, and, with us return through the same medium, and as we ', such an organization as we suggest, this could have a sense of honor, let us fulfill our obliga- : i>e done with far greater advantage than at tions. present. The Inter..:Collegiate Athletic Asso- . ciation will hold its convention early in Feb- ruary, inN ew York. Let us effect an organiza- A thing which we lack and need here at don at once and send a delegate to that Union is an organization devoted to the ad- conve:~~tion, applying for admission to the vancement of athletics in the. college. G-eneral Association. If this should be granted We have our :Fall and Spring meetings each we might, at Mott Haven next summer, be year, but there is a noticeable lack of system in : able to prove to our friends that, \In Unton ATHLETICS. the management of their details, which, while .. is strengt!z.\ there is no association to which the control of such meetings is generally acknowledged to . belong, is unavoidable. We cannot send repre- sentatives to the annual meetings for games of the Inter-Collegiate· Athletic Association, because \Ve have no association here at home \vhich has a membership in the General Asso- ciation or sends delegates to its conventions. REFUGE. Wben the soul is bruised and bleeding With life's stern reality, And the wodd moves on, unheeding All our sad. adversities ; When the -winds, in mournful anthe1n, Sigh in sympathy so drear, While the songsters sing a requiem Of the joys that once were near; Then, 0 G()d 1 with what assurance May we turn to Thee for rest l Thou wilt give us blest assistance And thy -peace-thine own bequest. H. Now with the athletic ability which is pos- sessed by some of our number and the interest ! in the subject which the majority of us feel,' Union ought to be represented at every annual meeting for athletics held by the Inter-Col- legiate Association. This college never sent We greet in our list of exchanges a new representatives to such meetings prior to 1875 ; comer whose title at least demands our respect that year two Union men entered, and each and admiration, \ T!te Collegian and Neoterian,\ brought away a prize; notwithstanding this which is published by the literary societies of encouraging exhibit the experiment has never , Lawrence University. The Collegian, etc., is been repeated. published at Appleton, Wis.; ~here the Uni~ The sports here, on our own grounds, last· versity is located, and its first issue gives prom- fall proved that we have men among us ise of great success. It contains more matter, whose scores in the different contests compare in quantity at least, than any of our numerous very favorably with those made by collegians exchanges, but we think the substance might anywhere. well be \boiled down\ to occupy less space, .. At the inaugural games of the Knickerbocker as some of the articles are decidedly \thin.\ Athletic Club of New York city, a Union Col- To insure financial integrity, probably, the paper lege undergraduate succeeded in winning more supports two treasurers. It possesses, however, prizes than any other one contestant. At the many points of rare merit, and exhibits con~ last meeting of the New York Athletic Club, · sidera ble editorial ability. We gladly welcome held at Gilmore's Gardens on the 5th inst., the·. the western waif among our exchanges. Ja Y. wc. of ed pr M y m nt c· I~ ti al tl c] 0 p E ( a b I l I

ne ton uld at sso- 0 the be H. a ne\V respect 0 ' ' of etc., is Uni .. prom- matter, might space, ,, th' ,, tn. he paper bits con- welcome THE CONCORDJENSIS. 27 PERSONALS. '09. HENRY EDSON died at Troy, N. Y., · Jan. 4, 1878. He was born at Waterford, N. Y., Aug. 3, 1788, the son ·of Adam Edson, who • was educated at Yale College about the middle • of the last century, and who vvas one of the few educated men of his time. '39· Hugh W. McClellan has been recently elected county judge of Columbia Co., N.Y . '45· R. H. McClellan is practicing [aw in Troy, N.Y. . '46. Hon. Henry R. Pierson was elected Vice-Chancellor of the Board of Regents of the University, at a recent meeting of tha.t body. '46. Peter V. Veeder is still in the U niver- sity at Tokio, Japan. '46. Prof. Ransom B. Welch, D. D., LL. D., of Auburn Theological Seminary, and formerly a professor in Union, was here during the holidays. '52. Silas B. Brownell has been elected sec- retary of the State Bar Association. Henry Edson studied law and commenced practice at Waterford. In I 819 he married · Miss Ann Huntington, of New Rochelle, N. Y., who died in I840. Mr. Edson then re- moved to Troy, and formed a business con- nection with Judge Samuel Huntington and Charles R. Richards, and continued until about 1848, in a very successful and lucrative prac- tice ; but the change in the practice brought about by the code induced him to withdraw from the active pursuits of life. At the semi-centennial class meeting in I 8 59 there were present of a class of fifty graduates, Charles Schaler, David Oli- phant, Samuel B. Ludlow, John Low, Charles Burr, Henry Warner, Gideon Hawley, Ebenezer Griffin, Jacob Van Vechten and Henry Edson, and now after nearly twenty years more it is believed that only the venerable Samuel G. Ludlow now of Oswego, N. Y., survives. '55· Philip Sidney Post has returned to · ':ienna, as secretary of the American Lega- tion. Mr. Edson passed his latter years in the en- joyment of intellectual pursuits, in social pleas- ures and in the exercises of religion. Always genial, he was· in all the relations of life most exemplary, and one has well said of him that \the years silvered his hair and weakened his physical forces, but they did not touch the warmth of his heart or dim the lustre of his kindly eye.\ '32. Rev. Jonathan Crane, A. M.,died suddenly at his home in Middletown, N.Y., Dec. z6, 1877. For forty years engaged in the ministry, and at the time of his death pastor of the First Congregational Church in Middletown, he was universally respected and beloved. He possessed a genial nature which always won the hearts of those with whom he carne in con- tact. '34· Judge Geo. F. Comstock is inN evv York, engaged as counsel in several prominent cases pending in the courts. '55· Rev. Sheldon Jackson, D. D., 'vvho is editor of the Rocky ]\fountain Presbyterian, and superintends the Indian schools established among the western tribes, is in Wash in.gton looking after the interests of those tribes and more especially the natives of Alaska. He vis- ited the territory last summer and foun.cl. mani- fested among its inhabitants a strong desire for education. Dr. Jackson thinks it is the duty of our government to establic;h schools among them with means of civilizat1 on, and fit them for self-government. '56. Miles Beach has his law-office in the Equitable Building, No. I20 Broadway, N. Y. '56. Rev. Dr. De Witt C. Durgin is president of Hillsdale College, Michigan. '6r. John M. Wilson, of Cincinnati,_ is U. S. Consul-General at 1-Iamburgh. '68. Noble is practicing medicine in New York. '70. Joseph G. Creamer is practicing law in Paterson, N. J. '76. Hastings has been re-elected captain of the Cohoes Boat Club. '77· Fairlee was in Schenectady during the holidays. '77· Van Ness is preaching at Strawberry Point, Iowa. '77 .· Moore is studying law in Johnstown. '77· Russum is married, and is preaching in Albany, N.Y.

THE ()ONCORDIENSJS. TH·E CoNCORDIENSIS : PUBLISHED MONTHLY DURING THE COLLEGIATE YEAR BY THE STUDENTS OF Parsons & Co., the publishers, the issue w~as delayed. Asking the leniency of our patrons for this time, we \i\Till place the Ft:bru::try num- UNION UNIVERSITY. ber promptly before them. EDITORS.~ N. L. REED, '79, CHIEF EDITOR. F. VAN DUSEN, '79· F. F. CHISOLM, '79· E. C. HOYT, '79· R. C. ALEXANDER, '8o. H. D. HOBBS, '8o. An unpleasant duty devolves upon us to call the attention of the Faculty to the fact that some person or persons has been committing a series of thefts in the college. Many students complain that articles of furniture disappeared during the summer vacation. Others have had quite large sums of money taken from their rooms when they were absent at recitations. MEDICAL DEPARTl\!EN:L LAW DEPART:11ENT. JOHN C. PE~NIE. H. W. LAWRENCE, A. ~1. TERJVIS: One Dollar per Year, in advance. Single copies, Ten Cents. ADDRESS, THE CONCORDIENSJS, Box 48I, Sclunectady, N. Y. CONTENTS. LITERARY: That Letter, Loyalty to Alma 111ater, Athletics, RefugE', - Personals, - EDITORIAL: Change of Editors, Delay in Publication, Ca.11 for Assistance, Drill - vVho wrote that Editorial, - Dr. Lowell's Return, Exchanges in Reading Room, Locals, Exchanges, - EDITORIAL. ::PA.GE . - 28 28 28 - 30 30 - 30 32 - 35 During the Christmas holidays, two gentlemen had some valuable clothing stolen. It would be most mortifying to learn that any student had so far lost all sense of decency and self- respect, as · to descend to the practices of a sneak-thief. But we do not believe this. In- deed, a chain of circutnstances has occurred under our immediate notice, which clearly in- dicates that such is not the case. So1rtebody does it vvho has keys to our rooms, for in every instance the doors have been locked. Union College students desire to leave their rooms \Vith some sense of security. It is not altogether a pleasant or profitable thing to . return to your room and find that your best pants and vest have taken imaginary wings, or that your pocket-book has been rifled. In fact, it deranges one's whole mental and moral ap- paratus, and produces demonstrations which are at least undesirable. This is a crying abuse and deserves investigation. DRILL. We regret being called upon to announce the \Vithdrawal from the Board of Eclito.rs. of our former Editor-in-Chief, 1\1r. J. F. Greene. From his practical ex.perience in print111.g and newspaper publishing, it was expected that THE CONCORDIENSIS would derive much benefit· However, we wish him great success in h.is new role, and congratulate the Atnsterdatn Df'1rtOcrat on this new accession to its editorial staff. Two other names have also disa ppea Jecl from our heading, W. W. Childs, '79, and W. Bronk, '8o, whose places, as also that of chief editor, have been filled in the manner seen by :reference Awful to contemplate, but alas, too true! Union has been rudely roused from her sweet dreatns of peace to the bitter realization that those soothing cornforts, which ahvays attend cessation of hostilities, are no longer to be known within her borders. She once more has donned the glittering paraphernalia of military accoutre- ments, and once again will she strive to gratify her lofty aspirings, her ever upward. flights toward glory and distinction, by plunging ane\V into the bitter trials and uncertain chances of military life. After three months of freedom to our editorial column. We have to apologize to our readers for the fact, that our January issue is not out on time. The matter was in the hands of the printer in time to have had the paper published before the last \veek of the month, but owing to a· strike of the printers at the house (}f Weed, fr w 1Y e: 1i 0 0 p b \ ( v . 1: r l 1 ]

ns nts self- of a In- . y 111- not to best or fact, ap- which . true! sweet n that attend known coutre- gratify flights ane\V of om THE CONCORDIENSIS. -• from this thought-transcending folly, during _· This harrowing event of course threw the which time we had alrnost composed our students into a depth of misery, and it was minds in the comforting assurance that this · thought that they could not survive, but soon exceedingly displeasing element in our college- their faces gained their accustomed shining, life had been forever vanquished; again have and anon seemed quite reconciled to their sad orders come to '' fall in,\ and, as it is for us · bereavement. Our old military life certainly can- only to obey, soon will we, with a true soldier's not be called a success, and it is yet to be seen pride and with guns on our student shoulders, _· how matters will eventuate as to the new system. be parading these \ dear old walks '' to the . It is to be hoped, however, that if drill is to be \dreamy allurements'' of the \enticing\ fife. a pennanent institution, that all its duties, be- ·Oh! rapture unspeakable! What joys are yet bests and commands will be so faithfully carried vouchsafed to humble man! But notwithstand- out, that when we have a' gala' day, bringing ing all the glory and all the delightfui charms . forth a vast and enlightened concourse of ad- military life generally may throw about itself, mirers to see our wonderful evolutions, every it has come here a second time, wonderful to member of the battalion may indeed be spared say, shorn of its beauties, and standing out in the humiliating thought that his is a mistaken all its unpleasantness, all its repugnance. Four calling. That military drill has many good years have passed since military drill was for qualities no one will deny, but still it is a very the first time introduced. Its arrival was difficult matter to firmly plant this in the minds hailed with hearty acclaim by many of the of those men among us, who are trying to get students, who no doubt were carried away by a college education. Their tin1e is precious, the novelty and general freshness of the scheme. and hence they do not relish the idea of fritter- Without ado they were abroad, seeking ing it away upon a work which surely cannot habilitation proper for the \glorious cause,'' be beneficial, since proper attention and suf- and soon, with flashing eye and bold front, ficient experience cannot be allowed it. It ·were parading the simple walks and quiet alleys has been said that this drilling \vvill teach of Schenectady, causing \vonder and astonish- men how to ·walk.\ This is indeed an argu- ment in the good inhabitants thereof, who, ment of great import in its favor, but just ·with mouths distended and hands uplifted, now there are men in this institution who are vvere wrapt in silence and stupefaction at the decidedly practical, and who do not distress peculiar sight of \ old men turned to boys,\ at their inner being excessively as to vvhether nature so miraculously metatnorphosed. A their tread is like the rumbling of distant thun- short time, however, was amply sufficient to der, shaking the lofty sutnmits of time-stained persuade these aspirants for renown, that \all mountains, or similar to the quiet rustling of is not gold that glitters.\ They found that tender leaves, agitated by the soft and balmy much valuable time was being thrown aV\'ay summer air. They are wonderfully determined day after day in \supporting arms, marching as to their general appearance, and it is a to the rear,\ and ''about facing,\ and, of matter of great speculation whether or no the course, they sighed for peace. Many fell from \drutn \ fife \ and \musket\ can shake them the ranks, day by day deserters arose, and the in their will. However the case may be, the battalion was growing dreadfully weak from military drill seems to be heartily disliked by lack of nourishment. The commanding officer the great majority of the college men, and did all in his power to make the matter a were the scheme abolished outright and for- success, but his support from high places was ever, there would, with no passing doubt, be hardly firm enough to make drill a permanent joy and great gladness springing up at every institution of the college, and so, after dragging corner and angle of the college precincts. If a fitful existence up to the close of last year, on the contrary it become a permanent institu- it died peacefully, and as was generally hoped, b 11 d · \Vith no chance of restoration to being. tion, and the men e com pe e to recogn1ze

30 THE CONCORDIENSIS. it as such, then we counsel every man to \do accommodate our subscribers in college, still his duty, his whole duty'' and the like. Let they wiH recognize the impracticability of open- every man strive unceasingly to cultivate that ing our sanctum to ,everybody z'nd,iscrz\Jninately lofty patriotism., that high-minded courage, that -· as in justice we should have to do. The only bold and dashing cut, which may not only way which we see to obviate the difficulty and . reflect great glory upon his own \native land '' . meet fhe wishes of all, is to place the exchanges but cause the star of his dear alma n;zate7 to · in the College Reading Room. Thus a valu- shine more and more brilliantly, and make her able addition would be made to the n1atter in scope and position in the world so wide and so · the R!eading Room, and no periodicals would established, that from all the quarters of the · be read with greater interest. Will not those globe shouts of loud applause may go up for her . officers of the college who have charge of the cherished idea of the soldier's life, and for her · Reading Room Fund appropriate some portion persistent efforts toward the establishment of a · of it for securing this object? By doing this solid and lasting military scheme in an atmos- · they will confer a great favor on the students phere of classical and intellectual pursuits. and render THE CONCORDIENSIS a much needed \ Who wrote that editorial ?\ is the interrog- ative that, much to their annoyance, is often addressed to the members of the editorial corps. We wish to state, once for all, that we do not propose to publish the names of the authors of each editorial, but whatever articles appear under that heading are to be considered as from the pen of that potent and comprehen- sive \ We.\ Hence, friends, whatever praises you have, bestow them bountifully upon the \We;\ but should you, from any inconceivable cause, have hostile criticisms to make, appear at the door of our sanctum, when there is a full meeting of the .... Board, with competent witnesses and a good-natured smile on your countenance, and we will consider your case with the utmost courteousness. It is our pleasant duty to announce the return of Dr. Lowell to take charge of Juniors and Sophomores in Latin, during the present term. In our last issue his withdrawal from the faculty was mentioned. We believe at that time he intended no longer to continue his labors among us. Fortunately for his classes, however, he has been prevailed upon to return, and to the Juniors he points out the errors in Lucretius' philosophy, while to the Soph- omores he makes clear the narratives of Tacitus. Repeated applications have been made on the part of the students for access to college · exchanges. While we would like very n1 uch to , assistance. We trust they will not overlook this tnatter. With all due respect, we would like to pro- pose a single question to the authorities of U ni()ll College, which, we hope, they will reflect upon. In this, as in every other college, there is a. considerable class of young men whose funds are limited and who, by frugality and perseverance, are making a manly struggle to obtain a collegiate education. Now all students a.re ordered to provide themselves with military suits, which involve ·what is to many a large expense. Taking this into consideration, do the au- tho·rities thz'nk it just to impose a measure which is thoroughly repugnant to at least a large majority of the students? We must call the attention of the con- tributors to THE CONCORDIENSIS to the invari- able printers' rule- write on one side of your manuscripts only. vVe do not say that we will · be as strict as is usually the case, and consign to the waste basket all double-sided contribu- tions. We simply say that all such articles have to be rewritten by the editors, thus adding un- necessarily to their burdens, which, in addition to their regular college work, are not slight. The report that Rev. l\1r. Darling was to be added to the professorial list has been con- firmed by his appearance as lecturer on Meta- p t1 a~ p g p t; c c c \ ( ( r

cill ~n- ely lly .nd :res ~ Ju- . · 1n uld ose the . :1011 this ~nts ded ook pro- 3 of fleet here hose and .e to lents itary large ? au- vhich large con- 1van- your ·e will . )ns1gn .tribu- ; have 1g un- clition J\ht. :::> to be n con- Meta- :' I THE CONCORDIENSJS. 31 ' physics, before the Senior Class.. All friends of literary articles. Give us racy, readable pieces, the college, who know him, will rejoice in this • sense or nonsense, short or long, what amuses acquisition to the ranks of \Old Union's\ · you in the class-room, what grievances you professors. Mr. Darling, we believe, is a want redressed, what improvements you can graduate of Williams College and a man of suggest, \vhat customs you deprecate. Free your profound scholarship. We hope he will be re- burdened minds and give to the public your tained indefinitely. v1ews . When we found ourselves ensconced in one of the editorial chairs of THE CONCORDIENSIS, our first thought was, now our powers of criticism will be taxed to the uttermost. We were even prepared to be martyrs to the extent of bearing with stoical fortitude the frowns disappointed authors would cast upon us. That our powers of production would ever be burdened beyond a short editorial at each issue we never imagined. Had not the public sentiment long demanded a c0llege paper? And now had not two of the · classes, at least, made us the exponents of this demand, making every promise of full support? Of course the promises would be kept, not simply by purchasing copies as the issues came out and adding their names to our subscription list-valuable help, and that we would in nowise disparage-but also by giving us articles, poems, items, letters, and in a word, matter, so that we might be able to select and give to our readers only what we considered the best. We fondly hoped that matter would be crowded ~ut of each issue for want of room, and form, if good, a nucleus for our next. But, \alas for the frailty of human hopes.\ Our expectations were grand ; our realizations not very. One man was willing to furnish from his fertile brain the n1aj or part of our first paper, so that the lack of material was not felt. This should not devolve upon one nor upon six. There are surely plenty of men upon the hill \Vho are able to assist THE CONCORDIENSIS, and make its interests universal; and we are bound to say if these men do not give their aid, and it is not the readable sheet it would other\vise be, the fault lies at their door. It is the college paper, and if members of the college do not support it, they must not be surprised if in any respect it fails. We are not calling for heavy The pages of mythological story are crowded with the frequent portrayal of monsters, vast. and ugly, who, in forms part hun1an part ani- mal, infested our sphere, and in their various combinations attested the vivid imagination and the great inventive talent of him whose rnind conceived their existence. We look \iVith horror on the dreadful mino- taur in his winding labyrinth, who with a hu- tnan body attached to the head of a bull, every year required his human feast frotn the subdued Athenians. We have read of the 'vild Centaurs who, in form half human half equine, roamed over the hills and vales of 'fhessaly. Of the rapacious Harpies, with the head of a beautiful woman and the body of a bird, who drove con- stantly westward the distracted Phcenicians, without once allowing him the luxury of a square meal. Various were the forms under which the Greeks in fancy conglomerated the physical characteristics of mankind with those of the animal world. But it was left to the artist of the 19th century to effect the grandest consum- mation of all that is ingenious and attractive in this branch of art, who with an inventive genius almost incredible in this degenerate age, has \topped out\ the human form divine with the head of a Jzog. As we turned the corner on our way to chapel the other morning, we beheld, high suspended in a tree at the corner of S. C., a human figure arrayed in the \ undress\ uniform of an army officer literally armed to the teeth, and above the tall collar and below the military cap poised gracefully between his ears grinned a massive pig's head. 0, the sublimity of modern thought? A perfect miracle of artistic grandeur ! before which the classic Greeks might have bowed in wonder and amazement. It was a specimen

THE CONCORDIENSIS. which Phidias might have envied, over which · Mr. S. W. Buck, of the class of '76, has re- Michael Angelo might have gone into raptures .•. turned to college as tutor in Physics. Mr. Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, nor hath it : Buck graduated with high honors and will, no yet entered into the heart of man to conceive · doubt, make an efficient instructor. such a combination as this. It resembled noth- · Prof. Geo. Alexander has been appointed to ing in heaven above, in the earth beneath, or address the graduating class of the .l\lbany the waters under the earth. Its creator might Medical College at their coming commence- have fallen down and ·worshiped it without ment. We congratulate them on their good violating any of the Ten Command1nents. selection. And yet behold with v;hat inappreciation : Union College has educated more members and with what indignity this sublime figure is of Congress than any other college or univer- treated! The vandal Picket ascends and with sity in the country. The New Yo1'\k Co1n11zer- barbarian hand ruthlessly cuts down this em- c£al doubts if this is complimentary to \ Old bodiment of all that is beautiful in nature, and Union \ Congressmen, take notice. bears it away to his kitchen, to make culinary A correspondent writes : ''I have a question use of that which was \appropriated\ for orna- to ask through your paper concerning the first ment alone and dooms the classic figure to ruin college newspaper published in this country. and disgrace. I tlzink it was the 'Partlzeno1t' founded at Let no false modesty prevent the genius 'Union' in 1832.\ Will somebody enlighten whose skillful hand has wrought this wonder . us? from disclosing himself and claiming the 1nerit Professor, exam1n1ng a Freshtnan.-\ Now, which is his due. He is an honor to the insti- sir, can you find the centre of a circle?\ Fresh. tution, to his parents and to his country. Let him (promptly,) \Yes sir.\ Prof.-\Well determine come forth, and we predict that in the far-off fu- the centre of the one on the board.\ Fresh. tureages, when the historian shall chronicle the (using his finger,)-\ I don't want to be rash deeds of the Igth century, lz£s name shall shine about it, Prof., but I think it is about tlzere.\ forth in letters of gold on the dark back ground The anti-silver men have strong and good of past generations and all will unite in hailing old authority for their doctrine and none that him the benefactor of art, and the friend of we consider better than-Sophocles, who in the An- man. tigone 1. 295 says, OvoE:v yap dr8 pdnrozozr olov apyvpo; uauor vo fll<I ;/ 8'j37ux.orc, which may be rendered : \silver is the worst thing in the world for n1en.\ LOCALS. Prof. Wells' family is still in Europe. We are waiting patiently for the publication of the Garnet. The term opened at twenty degrees below zero, and with full attendance. General Military orders claiming to have or- igna ted at the White House in Washington continue to be posted. vVe hear that Prof. Webster is to deliver a lecture before the Jackson Memorial (Scientific) Association on the subject \Evolution.\ Judging from some remarks made by members of the Junior Class, concerning the lectures on Mechanics, the \Lecture Syste1n\ does not seem to be very popular among them. A bill introduced by Mr. North in the legisla- ture establishes a commission consisting of Dr. Potter, together with four other college presi- dents, to examine the different series of text books and make selections for the use of the public schools in this state, to be continued in use for six years. The skating park has been established at the junction of the Bennikill and Main river, and is a great improvement on the one kept last year. The establishment of a rival park on Sand- ers lake, which offers a free sleigh ride from the Given's Hotel every evening, has effected an in- crease in the size, and bettered the condition of the Schenectady park. ha yo di~ tu: ap th '1 th ol lD ro sa ro H Cl \ ti h a 1~ t. s j t

no to ce- ers . lOn at ow, . An- ,. )lOY the Dr. resl- text in the is the . n In- THE CONCORDIENSIS. 33 Scene at the Christ Church Fair.-A student has been monopolizing the attentions of a young lady dHring the evening, much to the disgust of a certain \to'lvny.\ As an oppor- tunity is presented, said exasperated \ towny \ approaches and thus addresses her : \ What is the difference between a st~tdenl and a 1·nonkey.?\ 'Here is the .dz.jference;'' she replied, indicating the student and !zi11Z. Exit \to·wny.\ Extraordinary translations of respectable old classical authors continue to come in, as for instance, Virgil in the words: \Impositique rogis juvenes ante ora parentum,\ is made to say ' 4 and the boys were imposed upon by rogues in the very teeth of their parents,\ ·while Horace fares no better when the verse, \Par- cus deorum cultor et infrequens\ is rendered: \The park of the gods frequently vvas not cul- tivated.\ On the morning after some military orders had been posted, the following soul-stirring appeal was found to grace the bulletin board : \FRESHMEN! To ARl\IS!! We are under a system of Military Despot- ism ! Rise up in your 11zajesty and shake off the shackles of Bayonet Rule ! Are ye Frce- 1ncn, or are ye Frcslz? Shall we submit to this sea of troubles, or by opposing, end the1n? Arise then and smite the Military Usurper in brass buttons from the face of the earth ! \Sic SeJJzper Tyrann£s I \ Dr. William Wells, since his return from Eu- rope in the fall, has been giving a series of lectures in the northern ·and \Vestern parts of this state. We are not surprised to hear that he met with warm receptions throughout his tour. Prof. Wells is a man of -vvide repute as a \Vriter and lecturer. Many of his lectures and literary articles are -vvritten on the condition, manners and customs of the different nations of Europe. l-Ie is perfectly at home on these topics, having spent a considerable portion of his life in the Old World. He is a very fluent speaker, and possesses remarkable powers of description. The students of a Theological Seminary are naturally noted for their acquaintance with the scriptures, and perhaps the following is not a true specimen: Prof.-\ Now 1\'lr. H., of course you know how many plagues were im- posed upon Egypt?'' (Mr. H.'s next door neighbor whisper~ in his ear.) Mr. H.-\ Nine- teen, Professor.\ Whereupon general hilarity follows in the class. Next day Professor re- fers to a certain verse in the book of Jude. H. nudges forementioned neighbor and whispers: \Ask him what chapter, Satn.\ Sam.-\ What chapter did you say, Professor? \ Great rejoic- ing on the part of Mr. I--I. Lieut. Clermont L. Best, of the First Artillery, vvho vvas detailed by the Government to take comtnand of the Union College Corps of Cadets, arrived just before the opening of the term. The Seniors and Juniors are drilling five days in the vveek, bet\veen the hours of I I and I 2 A. l\L, and are n1aking rapid progress in the science. Lieut. Best, by his soldierly and gentle- manly appearance, is making a good impression among the students. He appears to be an ex- cellent officer. He has been called to take charge of a department which is unpopular in the college, but ·we trust the students \Vill make it as pleasant as possible for him. Some changes are to be made in the uniforms. We notice some changes that have been made in the Gymnasium recently. A ne\V heater has been introduced and portions of the apparatus have been moved to different posi- tions to accommodate the evolutions of the \ Union Army.\ An exhibition in athletic games will be given on Saturday, Feb. g, \Vith the follo\ving programme : Vertical Ladder, Parallel Bars, High Leap from Spring-board, Horizontal Bar, High Leap frotn Batout Board, Indian Club S\vinging, Boxing. A fine gold prize \vill be a \Yarded to the best general athlete. We learn also that a bath room is soon to be added. Mr. Vanderveer is an excellent mana- ger and keeps a lively interest in Gymnasium affairs. Too much cannot be said in cotn- mendation of President Potter for the active interest he takes in this department. Scientific tnen vvill do \vell to take note that the follo·wing important additions have been made to the Physiological vocabulary: \ Perither urn,\ '' Filamentatious,\ \Spharnyx etc.

34 THE CONCORDIENSIS. Died Jan. 9, I 878, George L. Hopkins, aged 23 years. Members of the class of' 78, Med. Dept., Union University : Professor Staley delivered a very interesting and instructive lecture before the Gillespie Club, Friday evening, Jan. 18, on the subject of \Columns.\ He carried his audience back to the titne when the stone column is said first The sudden death of our friend and class- mate, George L. Hopkins, is an event which has cast a gloom over the many friends which his estimable qualities of head and heart had secured him. · to have been used as an architectural support, · and carefully traced the progress in their de- velopment up to the time when the beautiful Composite graced the Roman edifices. Endo\ved with untiring energy and persever- ance, modest and unassuming in ·manner, kind and courteous to all, he combined all the quali- · ties necessary for a successful practitioner. He was a true friend, a sincere and consist- ent Christian, and was loved and respected by all with whom he came in contact, both in college and in social life. A. W. W. At a meeting of the medical department of Union University, held January 9, I 878, in re- lation to the death of George L. Hopkins, the following resolutions were adopted: Resol-ved~ That we have assembled to-day · not alone from a sense of duty, but with feel- ings of sorro·w, to express our respect and af- fection for our departed friend and class-rna te, who, by his attractive and endearing personal qualities, gentle and benignant temper, his strong sense of right and duty, the high and generous feeling that ever manifested itself in all his words and actions, had won for himself a place in every heart. With a deep sense of the loss we have sustained, we feel that in cherishing his memory and imitating his ex- ample we shall best honor him and ennoble our lives in our future professional career. Resolved, That we tender to the family and friends of the deceased our heartfelt sympa- thies in this their hour of bereavement, and while we recognize in this event the workings of a Divine Providence, we bow with deep hu- mility to Him who doeth all things well. Resolved, That -vve attend the funeral in a body and wear the usual badge of mourning for thirty days. Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be tendered to the family of the deceased, and that they be published in the daily papers. WILLIAM D. W ALRADT, Chairman, WILLIAM L. PIERSON, HENRY LILIENTHAL, ALFRED W. WILMARTH, Cotnmittee. The Professor alluded to the primitive col- umn as having been suggested by the trunks of trees which supported the rude domiciles of our antediluvian fathers. He stated that the Egyp- tians, the oldest nation, made use of columns, and afterward the Greeks. Among the Greeks there were three orders of columns which determined the style of the entire struc- ture. The Doric, Ionic and Corinthian; but the Romans, presuming to be more cesthetic, introduced the Tuscan and Composite orders which were in fact but combinations of the old forms. The Greeks were very precise in the construction of columns, and adopted forn1u- lce which were rigidly adhered to, all parts of the structure being strictly proportional, so that one in the present day could reconstruct exactly similar columns from a single part-a capital or base, of the original. From the most an- cient times columns have been used not only as supports and embellishments for buildings, but also as monuments recording the deeds of il- lustrious men and memorials of victories. The Media:val ages ·witnessd many important changes from the old ctassic orders and the Gothic order was introduced. The Renaissance period was that in which the old classic orders were restored. At the present day, the struggle lies between the Gothic and the old classic styles, and it remains to be seen which shall gain the supremacy in modern architecture. Indeed we owe much to the ancient Greeks in this branch of the arts, and when we admire the grandeur of our finest classic buildings, we must bear in mind that it is in the main borrowed from them, The Professor's lecture contained some sharp criticisms on structures of to-day, and was hap- pily interspersed with ancient legends and modern humor. J ( 1

ting . sp1e first de- tiful col- of the but old the of that tal an- as , but of il- The eriod were lies the . 1n hap- and THE ·CONCORDIENSIS. 35 LAW DEPARTMENT. At a meeting of the students of the Albany Law College, on Tuesday, Jan. 22nd, a Vale- • dictorian and three Orators were elected to · participate in the Commencement exercises, · rrhich will take place in May. After a spirited contest· the result -vvas declared as follows : For Valedictorian, J. F. Barker; for Orators, M. N. Cain, of Ithaca, Marcus 1-I. 1\tl ullinneaux, of Mountainville, and Franklin C. Manning, of Buffalo. EXCHANGES. A FABLE.-NOT FROM AESOP. In N ovus York a felis dwelt Who unum tempus thought she smelt A large-sized mus, and statim felt Inclined to catch him. Sed haec poor mus a rat erat Qui una via ran at that, And sic his cab jejunis sat Obliged to watch him. Et ille rat per alium route Quod he cognovit soon got out Et there relinquit cat, without Tantum ut ''thank you.\ Hie tnoral est, while think you may Ut vos are certus of your prey, He'll fugit by so1ne other way, And sic outflank you. The article in the Kenyon Advance on \ Pas- sion in Oratory\ is remarkably good. The Oberlirt Re'lriew appears in larger form, and is very much improved both in its \get up\ and the matter in it. The Madiso1ze1tsis presents a very creditable appearance, and shows much interest taken in it by the editors, who seem to work up their limi- ted field quite thoroughly. The Washington Jeffersonian has just reached us. The articles are rather long, but the mat- ter is excellent. A few typographical errors ap- pear in this issue which ·will undoubtedly be corrected in the next. It has a character all its own among college papers,- ambitious, and, in consequence, we think, artificial. It is no doubt an important power in its own country, and the workers on it deserve praise for their diligence. The prospectus of The Vidette gives good promise. The editors seem to possess all the qualities requisite for a successful publication. The articles are short, spicy and quite readable. We \velcome it to our list of exchanges. A Cambridge (England) theologue, when he told the story of the Good Samaritan, after re- citing the benevolent man's promise to the host \And when I come again I \vill repay thee,\ wound up with, \ This he said, knuwing that he should see his face no more.\ The Arc!tangel is on its ear because the Ober- lin Review man calls it a mosquito. This is- naturally shocking to a man of morals and more over savours somewhat of impiety. Ho,vever we must rejoice that he stopped there, and did not call it a gnat. Nothing concerning the college can be found among its editorials, which are chiefly occupied with defenses of the Ro- mish Church. The speech entitled \The Lecture Platform\ is good in its parts, but there are sad gaps. The mission of the platform, as first stated, hardly corresponds with its real work, \vhich is afterward rightly described ; the historical part fragmentary; and the strictures applied are de- clamatory rather than accurate. The other oration on \Conservatism in Republican Insti- tutions\ is, in our opinion, much better, although in this many sentences are introduced of no par- ticular bearing on the subject, sacrificing real strength for display. We wish to express our opinion in regard to the abstracting of signs and other loose prop- erty from down-town. We think such actions those of barbarians rather than of civilized beings, and do not see any sport in robbing some poor workingman of his sign, and thus put him to the expense of buying a new one. It is to be hoped that all actions unworthy of a gentleman, and especially of a student of \ Old Union,\ \vill be in future refrained from : . . • >'.1 ' ' , .. '

THE CONCORDIENSIS. The meanest man yet. He \vent to church. '78. Hayward has left college and is teach- The contribution box was passed. He had · ing. one cent. He dropped it on the floor. The · '78. Stolbrand has entered Lehigh U niver- box passed on. Everybody saw the supposed : sity. unintentional occurrence. When the folks get · '79· Perry has returned to ·College. down to pray, mean man gets down for penny. '79· Rodgers is out of college this term and is Penny saved. When folks get up to sing, m. · teaching. m. (mean man) joins in loudly, \A charge to · '8o. Ingram has applied for entrance at Trin- keep I have,\ evidently referring to penny. ·• ity. N O\V bring on your mean men!- Ex. '8o. Hal pen is at CornelL \The wise daughter is the pride of her father ; yea, her mother doth also delight in her ; but the foolish maiden bringeth sorrow.\ She • bangeth her hair over her right eye ; she tip- peth her hat on the back of her head. When evening cometh she walketh forth on the broad . street, and \Vith her left eye she glanceth at the patient youth ·who cougheth on the curbstone and \vipeth his nose on a red bandanna. I-Ier handkerchief also is seen. Then the youth smileth to himself, and followeth in her foot- steps. She setteth a snare and scoopeth the \Va yfarer in. Selah ! We think that the po\ver of money is, on the \vhole, over-estimated. The greates(things which were done for the world have not been accomplished by rich men, or by subscription lists, but by men generally of small pecuniary means. The greatest thinkers, discoverers, in- ventors and artists have been men of moderate wealth, many of them little raised above the condition of 1nanual laborers in point of world- ly circumstances. And it \Vill always be so. Riches are oftener an impediment than a stimu- 1 us to action ; and in tnany cases they are quite as much a tnisfortune as a blessing. The youth vvho inherits wealth is apt to have life made too easy for him, and so grow sated with it, because he has nothing left to desire. Having no special object to struggle for, he finds time too heavy on his hands ; remains n1entally and morally asleep; and his position in society is often no higher than that of a polypus over which the tide floats. '77· Smith is preaching in Belfast, Allegany Co., N. Y. '81 Has received five new members this term. The Graph£c anticipates the awards in the great baby show. The following are among the number which will receive premiums: No. I. The great national \Rag Baby.\ Looks abused and worn out. Stuffed with paper and turned green down the back. No. 2. Sammy Cox. Laughing baby. En- tered as funny baby. Takes seventh prize. No.3· John Morrissey. Fighting baby. See the black eyes on all the babies about him. He did it. Keeps a little Tiger. No. 4· Augustus Schell. Very black eye from the infant Morrissey. Got it over three weeks ago. No. 5· Elizabeth Cady Stanton. First prize. Best talking baby. No. 6. Anna Dickinson. Talking baby ; sotnewhat capricious ; won't mind anybody; travels on various stages ; teased by bad boys vvith quills; cries hard; born of the Republican party. No. 7· Charles A. Dana. A lion. A 'vful little fibber. Mad at everybody. Cries con- tinually, \ Reduce the army to Io,ooo men.\ No. 8. Benny Butler. Won't play with Anna Dickinson. First prize for throwing bricks. No. 9· Willie Tweed, singing Ring a Ring a Rosy. First prize kleptomaniac baby. No. IO. U. S. Grant. First prize-of the nation. No. baby. No. baby. I r. Henry Stanley. Brave little nigger Came near dyeing in the colored woods. 12. Dr. Mary Walker. A paint-ing No. I 3· Sammy J. Tilden. This is one of the smallest children for its age ever known. s D ( ]

is . nn- the b \ Y· En- See eye . nze. \ a the ods. -1ng of • e·• THE CONCORDIENSIS. 111 CARLEY HOUSE, WILSON DAVIS, State Street, cor. Centre, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. MERCHANT TAILOR, r 15 State Street, ScHENECTADY, N. ·y. Class and Society Suppers a specialty. DEVENDORF & CO., Proprietors. GEORGE E. VINCENT, A. BROWN & SON, G ' F G Up .. ·. bolsterers and Furniture ·.ENTS URNISHING . GODS, And Manufacturer of the ANCIENT CITY SHIRT. MANUFACTURERS, Myers' Block, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. I54 State Street, ScHENECTADY, N. Y. THOS. H. REEVES & CO., BURGESS & BUSKERK, DEALERS IN PHO'fOGRAPHIC ARTISTS, 105 and 107 State Street, ScHENECTADY. Fancy and Staple Dry Goods, CARPETINGS, OIL CLOTHS, &c. Also, a large line of Cloths and Cassimeres. r37 State Street, ScHENECTADY, N. Y. JOHN J. HAGIN, REID'S BOOT AND SHOE STORE. Manufacturing Tobacconist. HANAN & :REDDISH'S Gents' Hand-Sewed Shoes a specialty. COLLEGE TRA.DE SOLICITED. Cor. State and Barrett, Schenectady, N. y·. J. C. DUELL, DENTIST, 4 7 State Street, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. TEETH EXTRACTED WITHOUT PAIN. JOHN SCHUMACHER, BOOTS AND SHOES. Repairing neatly and promptly done. 267 State Street, ScHENECTADY, N. Y. SULLIVAN'S OYSTER BAY. OYSTERS AND REFRESHMENTS. \ YANK\ SULLIVAN. Ellis Block, ScHENECTADY, N. Y. GREENE & DUELL, DEALERS IN CO.rlL AND WOOD. Office, 22 Wall St. Yard, 23 Dock St., J, G. Greene. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Jas. Duell. r63 State Street, ScHENECTADY, N.Y. C. VAN SLY C K, Wholesale and Retail Dealer in COAL, WOOD AND FLOUR, 57 Centre and 7 Pine St., Schenectady. H. S. BARNEY & CO., DEALERS IN DRY GOODS, CARPETS, OIL CLOTHS, House Furnishing Goods, &c. State Street, ScHENECTADY, N. Y. S. FARRELL, DEALER IN Confectionery, Fruits, Nuts, &c. Cor. State and Centre Sts., ScHENECTADY. ------------------- AUG U S T S C H M I D T, Shaving and Hair Dressing Parlor, 162 State Street, ScHENECTADY, N. Y. .:; 'I

. lV THE CONCORDIENSJS . SCHENECTADY LOCOMOTIVE WORKS, Continues to receive orders, and to furnish, with promptness, THE BEST AND LATEST IMPROVED GOAL OR WOOD BURNING LOCOMOTIVE ENGINES! AND OTHER Railroad Machinery, Tires &c. And also to repair and rebuild locomotives. The above works are located on the N. Y. C. R. R., near the center of the State, and possess superior facilities for forwarding work to any part of the country. CHAS. G. ELLIS, WALTER MCQUEEN, EDWARD ELLIS, JOHN SWIFT, President. Vice-President. Tnasurer. Superinte11dent. ARMBRUST, \THE\ CUSTOM TAILOR! Repairing nicely and quickly done. 187 State St. (up-stairs), Schenectady. Delaware & Hudson Canal Co.'s COAL H. W. DENNINGTON, Central News Room, STANFORD BLOCK, No. 195 I-2 STATE STREET, Keeps constantly on hand all kinds of Daily and Weekly Papers, Magazines and Periodicals, Imported and Domestic Cigars and Toba(3co. Also Manager of the Western Union Telegraph Office. W. C. BAKER, MANUFACTURER AND DEALER IN MEN'S, LADIES' AND MISSES' AT THE VERY LOWEST MARKET PRICES BOOTS AND SHOES, AT 92 UNION STREET. ANDREW McMULLEN, Agent. JAiviES DIMENT, DEALER IN STOVES, RANGES, &c. UNION HALL BUILDINq, SCHENECTADY. 168 pT ATB pTREET' SCHENECTADY, N.Y. M. A. LIND, Manufacturer of CHOICE SEGARS, AndAI.Dealer in TOBACCO, PIPES, POUCHES, &e., 239 State Street, SCHENECTADY. ( - I au PW gm anc me tim tim fac \\'0 selt .ont: con ancl F Nc B J Ool