THE CONCORDIENSIS,. VOL. II. SCHENECTADY, N. Y., JANUARY, I879· No.4·· ------- -- ·-· - .. --·--. =-====.:.-=::::::===========================================:..=:::::=====-=:.:::::==-========== UNION UNIVERSITY. REV. ELIPHALET N01\'T POTTEI-~, D. D., L.L. D., PRESIDENT. UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. --0-- :r. CLASSICAL CouRsE.- The Classical Course is the usual bacca- laureate course of American colleges. Students may be permitted to : pursue additional studies in either of the other courses. 2. SciENTIFIC:: CouRsE.-In the Scientific Course the modern lan- guages are substituted for the ancient, and the amount of mathematical and English studies is increased. DEPARTMENT OF J\1EDICINE. ALBANY MEDICr~L CoLLEGE.- Term commences First Tuesday in S~ptemb.e~ and cont~nues t~enty weeks. Th<:: plan of instruction com- bmes chmcal teachmg., With lectures. Special opportunities for the study of chemistry and of practical anatomy. . ExPENSES. -Matri~ulation fee, $~. Tt;nn fee, $roo. Perpetual Ticket, $rso. Graduation fee, $zs. Dissectmg fee, $s. Fee for labo- ratory course,. $1o. Histological course, $w. For Circulars address PROF. JACOBS. MOSHER, M.D., REGIST~AR, I Albany, .v. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. 3· ScHOOL OF CIVIL Er-;GIJ:\EERIKG.- The student in this depart- ment enjoys advantages nowhere surpassed, in the course of instruc- tion, in 1ts collection of models, instruments and books, the accum ula- tions of many years by the· late Professor Gillespie, and also in unusual facilities for acquiring a practical knowledge for instrumental field work. ' THE ALBANY LAw ScHooL.- The Course of Instruction consists of three terms: the first. commencing September 4th, the second N ovem- ber 27th, and the third March sth; each term consisting of twelve weeks. The ad·vantages for the study of the law at Albany are as great as can be found anywhere. The Law Library of the State is open to · Students ; the General Terms of the Supreme Court of the Third De- partment, and all the terms of the Court of Appeals. 4· EcLECTIC CouRsE.-An Eclectic Course, consisting of studies selected at pleasure from the preceding courses, may be taken by any one who, upon examination, is found qualified to pursue it. On the completion of this a certificate of attainment will be given. There are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, Metallurgy and Natural History. For Catalogues, or for special information, address E. M. JENKINS, REGISTRAR, Sclumectady, N. Y. ---------------------------- ----- Dealers in Family Groceries ar1d Provisions, Teas, Oo:ffees, Spices, Flour, Butter, Cheese, Eggs, Canned Goods and Vegetables. Also, Crockery, Tobacco, etc. Cor. Union and Romeyn Sts., Schenectady. Goods delivered free . JAMES H. BAP\_HYTE, i ! I I BooKSELLER AND STATIONER, I AND PUBLISHER OF Jackson 'R :Niechanics, Optics, Acoustics, Trigonome- try and Conic Sections. Also on hand PRoF. TAYLER LEwis' WoRKS. College Room.~ Papered and Deco1·ated. Bindz~n{j done to orde1·. I I I STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Fee for single term, $so ; for two terms, $go; for three $r 30 For information, address ' · ISAAC ED\WARDS LL.D., DEAN, Albany, N. Y. DUDLEY OBSERYATORY. This Department of the University is located at Albany, and is de- voted especially to Astronomy and Meteorology. For information, address PiwF. LEvVIS BOSS, Albany, N. Y. N 0'1-,l\·fAN Photographic Company, ,' 55 NOR'I,H PEARL STREEJ,...r , L\lLBANY N. J7. CLASS PHOTOGRAPHERS oF UNiON COLLEGE, 1878-79. College Buildings, Landscapes, Class and Society Group Pictures of 18'78 n'lay be had at Class Rates. ~ Every person named in the official catalogue of the C'Ollege entitled to our pictures at contract rates: We make every desc·riptioJ& oj ·work known to Photvg·raphy, i·n.cluding the rep1·od·uction of old pictU1'es. COLLEGE.A_LBUMS AND ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF FRAMES. ~ Our Art Gallery always open to visitors, and ex- planations freely given.

1'1-IE CONCORDIENSIS. 11 -- ----·- --------- ~- - - -- -·--- ··----------------- HATS and CAPS. ·Hom(}Jopathio Pharmacy, ,_'lZ.l the Latest an.clTnost Fashio7~--­ a.ble Styles c~;t ERNS'l' STEINFUHRER; }POTHECAil_Y A~D Dll_UGGISl LEVl T. CLUTE'S l01 State St., Schenectady. ~Agent for Dunlap and Knox Hats. ---------- --- ------ ---~----- BYRON E. NEAR, '24 Sheets of Paper for 10 cents. 24 En vel opes for 5 cents. .A 1so, a jet Black lJ.!lk for 5 cents pe-r bottle. Union Hall BltJck, Sthen.ectady; N.Y.· ------- - ------ ----- .. 8 5 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Detlot ff •I' the Celebrated Pa1estine \'Olive Oil Cas:tile Soap..'~ Best ski:n soap in the tnarket. A full lute of Kinney Brotlzcr.s' Cigarettes. Meerschaum, French and A :merica:n Rliar Pipes. :Meerschaum and Amber Clgar and Cigarette Ho1·dets. Amber, Horn and Rubber Month Pieces for Pipes' 1 (ligar Hold- ers and (?ther Trlm,mings. SMOKING 'T'OB AC}C'O. in great variety. A choice as- sorment of Imported Key West and Domestic OIG ARS constantly kept in stock. A share a:f the public patrotla:g:e respectfully solicited:. - -- - ----- -- ___:....... ~ -- ----- - --- - - -- YATES & MOIR, Dealers in Books, Stationery and .1 US T I .N'' S lOth RBGI.ME.N'T Paper HangittJs, ~1 !!!UTE, &m 0E11'1'lilil l'n'., ScttE!NE'(l'l'ADY, N.Y. :Baud and Orcbestra. Agency for the Attehor,. Inman and Harntiurg-American T.rocnsatlanfic Steamship Un:es. SPECIALTY: College Fraternity Jewelry 10 Plain Street, Albany, N. Y. HOLTZ1VIANN & F1T'ZMAURICE, :MERCHANT T.JJ.ILORSI An.d Dealers in Ready-Made Clothing. ~ COLLEGE UNIFORMS A SPECIAL1'Y. 77 State Street, (cor. Ferry St.) Schenectady. r-.·~ ili<lt'M· . ~.......:r ~;;rt~~,.._·H~ ~~·L~..:I!.·· · . .£li.l_l:.~i~.1i\ .... :iJt..,..;~;;;,D:;I·l.L~· :a: ~~. Also makes a specialty of furn,.ishing Music for ?rivate :Parties, with OT Without Pianist. ~ Gentlemanly deportment a consideration !l.S well as music. FHED. AUSTIN, Leade1·. No. 77 State St., Albanv, N.Y. J • Drs. C. F. Rich & Son, DENTISTS, ror State Street, Schenectady. Over Glute's Hat Store. Y. M. C. A. COFFEE ROOM, ASSOCIA.TION BUlLDlNG. BILL OF FARE: Oysters, Raw, - 12 Cents. 14 Stewed, 15 14 ·~ Fried, - :'t5 \ , Beefsteak, or Ham and Eggs, with Potatoes, Bread and Butter, and Coffee, - 15 and 25 41 Baked Beans, per plate, 6 ~~ Buckwheat Cakes, xo H Milk Sangaree, 5 Ll Milk Tc!Yast., .... Eo Cent-s. Bread an.d Milk. 5 \ Bread atxd ·B'titter, - 3 \ Sandwic:11es, - - 3 \ Crullers., - Two for 3 \ Eg:gs, .. \'\ 3 \ Pie, 5 ·~ Coffee or 'rea, - 3- \ M.ilk per g·lass, .- g ~~

THE CONCORDIENSIS. VoL. II. SCHENECTADY, N. Y., JANUARY, I879· No. 4· THE CoNCORDIENSIS. LITERARY. PUBLISHED MONTHLY DURING THE COLLEGIATE YEAR BY THE STUDENTS OF s~CIENCE AND THE CLASSICS. UNION' UNIVERSITY. EDITORS: F. VAN DUSEN, 1 79· CHIEF EDITOR. N. L. REED, '79· J, N. VAN PATTEN, '79· F. P. S. CRANE, 'So. F. T. ROGERS, 'So. J. D. CRAIG, '8o I'heories of education are not less va- ried and opposed than the multifarious and obscure systems of philosophy. Every one has a peculiar idea ho\v mental discipline and culture should be prosecuted. These differ- ences were not so radical some ye~rs ago as . F. C. AVERY,.'Sx. W. P. WILLIAMS, '8r. TERMS: One Dollar per Year, in advance. Single copies, Ten Cents. no\v, and their source is to be found in the rapid development of modern thought and science. In the light of these changes it \vould be pa~pably absurd for one to attempt to set up an arbitrary course ; and the arti- cle on \Modern Education \ was not written with any such aim in view but to call at- ADVER TI.SING RATES: Square, per issue, \ \ year, Business Notice, per issue, H year, Half page, per year, Quarter page, per year, Address, $x oo - 7 00 75 500 25 00 - 15 00 THE CONCORDIENSIS, Bo.x 481, Sche.,ectady, N. Y. tention to the indications which point to ·a reform in this direction; to a current opinion CONTENTS: LITERARY: Sciences and the ·classics, - An Incident with a Moral, To Octavia, - EDITORIAL: Subscriptions, Support your Paper, - Christmas Holidays, , 'The Musical Interests of Union, The Chapel Furnace, - The Nine, - Requiescat in Pace, The English Department, ~ The Inter-Collegiate Boat Race, - The Chemical Laboratory, Seniors' Selection of Studies, - CORRESPONDENCE : Answer to\ Lines of Condolence to College Widows,\ Present System of 1\farking in Military Tactics, LOCAL: Local Briefs, Another Mystery, - Exchanges, Personals, - Extranea. - 45 47 - 49 that a classical renaissance is not adapted to the den1ands of modern Ute. It is not our desire to protract this time-\.vorn discussion, but since the arguments of the \Battle of 49 the Books\ have proceeded either upon - 49 ambiguous or unwarranted premises, vve _ !: desire to vindicate the justness of our con- elusions. It was not maintained, as our opponent affi rn1s, that the method of teaching Latin !: and Greek has not undergone changes. The absurdity of such an assertion vvould be ap- so - so - 51 - 53 sx 53 - 53 - 54 s6 p arent to anyone who has watched the con- stant n1odifications in their system of instruc- tion. As every investigator pursues a different course in his work of classification 5 7 and generalization, although all tending - ss 59 toward unity; so each tnethod ot instruction,.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. is a separate ID'ean to the accomplishn1ent of ia1n Hamilton has \Vell said ''the irnportance a con1mon end, and it is not our purpose to of a study, is not established when its dign_~tY ·consider the~r relative value. Our point was is adrnitted.\ 1\he dignitJ of classical cu'b- that formerly it was a universal opinion, that ture is unquestioned. Its practical value ]s ,classical education was the only true systen1, what we call in question. The only argument but that to da::_y ~many of our best educators of any apparent strength, b_y which our an-· ·clailn a superioT intellectual vatue for sci en- tagonist attempts to overth rO\V scientific edu- tific training. This is incontestible. cation, (by sho\ving a higher value of culture· Again, It is not a weighty argument for than of knowledge,) is base(! on the supposi- the study of the classics in the original, that tion that culture and intelligence are not our system of government is based to a · only convertible tenns, but that the latter is great .extent, on those of Greece and Rome, contained in the former. Nothing could be or that n1edieval and modern literature and ·.more erroneous. They are not only not the art have found noble models in a Homer or satne but no necessary proportion subsists Pabidias. The ancient writings can be most between them. Culture g1ves elegancP, grace, profitably studied in our vernacular tongue, finish. A person may be perfectly cultivated sW:1ce better linguists than any of this age and yet have no intrinsic power, and we have translated then1 into E,nglish, and we often hear of men uncouth and unrefined who··. should save tit.Ue by reading the English. If a control the destinies of nations, morality and path is paved, is he not a fool who would thought by the sagadty and origillality of strike out into some different and circuitous their intelligence. Education should prepare one in order to reach the same destination? to do, to act, to- perfo1\rn. Polish is surely ·D-r. Ernm·erson, the sage of Ne\-v England, very good in its 'vay, but more sterling power says that in his literary studies he never is necessary lor the purposes of American reads a forei:gn author in the original. More- life. The vanity of culture vvh1ch s<)me newly over, the fact that our knowledge of ancient born bachelor of arts e:x hib1ts, resetn bles the History and Geography has increased and as- vignettes and embellishes on the green-back. su n1ed a more positive character through the \V hich seem fine, but rio not en h-a nee its value; r.esearches of the antlq uary and archalologist for gold and silver are the only legal tender is not a sufficient, nor valid reason for the in the commerce of the world. study of the dead languages. Have these Knowledge, (not culture,) s.1ys the maxim, recent discoveries been record~d in Latin is power. And culture is not more a test of or Greek? Certainly not. Should one fine discrimination .. ready memory and train .. desire·to acquaint himself with then1, he 1nust ed judgt11ent (\vhich have been correctly have recourse to \vorks printed in modern stated to be the characteristics of the educat- tongues. True, they form part of the im- ed tnan) than a library is of learning, because n1ortal Book of the Classical Age, but scien- among the best cultured n1inds are to be tific education comprehends within its pro- found the tnost visionat-y, inconsequential and vince such investigation, indeed they are superficial. Thus his conclusions are in val- the cherished fruits of the progress of ied, unless he is prepared to maintain this . sc1ence. But the central question of the whole cnn- troversy, as our opponent justly states is What are the fruits of the classical, con1pared with other courses of instruction? Sir vVill- parztdox. Our arg~unlent is that classical cul- ture fulfils only an inferjor end of education in cot1r1ection \vith the highest. \vhereas the m udern systen1 not only disciplines that intel- ligence, \vhich js ·the result of the original \

THE c:ONCORDJENSIS. exercise . of the faculties-the n1ost exalted attribute of man-to a degree not inferior to classical studies, hut also trains the powers of observation and stores the n1ind with a general kno\;vledge of the arts and sciences which every ~cholar should possess, but \vhich IS too often neglected for branches of kno~l­ edge which will in the majority of cases be remembeFed as sim:ply poetical reminiscenc·es .of college days. Since know ledge is more valuable than culture for the average man, -scientific education rnust be ackno\vledged as rpore usefu't and practicable. The two belong together, but they have been separat- .ed. Let them be united in one grand schen1e of education, and \Ve will then haYe minds better adapted to meet the requiren1ents of n1odern times, and at the same time have finished scholars. The purpose ot this paper is not to vindt- ,cate a particular course of instruction in any institution, but to compare the ad vantages of the old and new systems. That theory is abused, cannot be mad~ a reproach against it. It indicates sirnply that _the conditions necessary for 1ts complete success are not present. l\'hus with education. In certain cases the discipline may not be rigid enough, and the course may not be properly svstenl- atized, but every system may be faulty in this respect. Moreover the objection urged against scientific education, that the kno\vl- .edge of the modern languages is frequently imperfect, is indisputable so1netin1es; .. yet should the san1e time· be devoted to them that is given to the classics, the student could n1aster thern. ...A,. thorough kno\v ledge of the .classics is undoubtedly· valuable; \but/' says a thorough classical scholar, '' most college graduates kno\v but very little of the dead languages, and still less of the ideas and principles of the ancients, \Vhose books they pretenci to have read ' in the or1gina 1.' \ Our opponent quotes Tyndall as conceding that the dead languages supplement the vvork ot science in refining the ~sthetic faculties, though still n1aintaining a superior intellectu- · al value for scientific training. This cannot be denied, for it constitutes its dign1ty. The ancient writings furnish the purest specimens in the whole range of literature, of exalted Imagination, of deep sarcasm1 of touching sentin1ent, of genuine wit. This, however, is only a part, and the smallest part of the argum,ent. The pdnciple upon which the progress of science depends is the use which one can 111ake of the results of previous investigations. So in the pursuit uf know ledge. A very perfect appreciatiota · of the Iliad can be had frorn the translation of Pope or Derby. The pure thought of the ..tEneid, the wit of Plautus, the eJoq uence of Cicero can be better enjoyed by the average student in a translation, than in the origin,al,,, for reasons which \Ve have stated above. But even if this be not admitted, the case would. not be materially altered. The value of. a refined en1otional nature compared \vith learning, we account very .smatL The detn- onstration of the rnost efficient systetu of edu- cation in determining the mind to a devel- opment which \viii be n1ost useful in profes- sional life, is the intricate problem which it· is our aim to solve. Such a character of liberal culture n1ay be suited to those who have abundance of n1eans and tin1e, but it is the ain:1 of tnost young men to prepare thern- selYC'S as soon as possible to grapple with the difficulties of their vocations. G. S. A. AN INCIDENT \VITH A JVIORAL. If questioned, the oldest college servants · will tell you in a half-admiring \vay about a great, bravvny n1an who graduated in I 8-, and \Vhose identity tnay perhaps be best con- cealed and revealed by the natne of Duncan -Edward Duncan. He was rather older than the average, a close student and very . ret1nng. The ordinary tnen kne\v nothing of - hirn, except his respectable recitation:;, but

! i . ; ~ 1 : ; I i I l • l I I ' ! ! i i i : i : I . ' ' I THE CO/\/CORD!ENSIS. it vvas reported among a few kindred spirits foolishness, including some high-flown no- that he \vas thoroughly conversant with sev·- · tions about aristocracy. eral independent lines of study, and for orig- Duncan had already put up his pipe before inality, cotnmon sense and versatility was the he heard a son1e\vhat haughty, \Will .you most entertaining of companions. It was in1- please assist o1e, sir?\ \vhereupon he hasten- possible to decide from his appearance ed to vault the fence. Mr. Softcloes had whether he ignored or \vas ignorant of sprained his dellcate ankle. Without rnuch the requirements of dress and etiquette. ceremony the Senior p1cked h1n1 up, and Probably the n1ajority rnentally classed hin1 crossed the steps; then, waiting until Miss. as a rustic, while a fevv n1ay have suspected C had done the same, set off with his. that his roughness \vas assun1ed. The oddest long stride, not looking back again. Soon thing concerning hin1 \vas h1s reputed woman- the disabled, what fron1 weak nerves, pain .. , hating. He never went into society, and was and the cold rain, began to shiver and chatter .. supposed to regard ladies, when he thought At this his big carrier struck on a slow run,, of them at ail, with some contempt and bit- and the aristocratic young belle, thoroughly terness. angry, follo,ved as rapidly as her \Vet gar-- The time of \Vhich we write was Spring ments permitted. term of his Semor year. Towards sun-down When they reached the Corner, the leader one day, a thunder-storm being close- at hand, turned and said, peremptorily, \You know with a covered pipe and short, rough coat, Mrs. Radical,\ mentioning a Professor's lady, he started out for a walk in the rain. Going · ''Run in there, and I will deliver Mr. Soft- up Lovers' Lane, by the time he neared its does to his society-fellows; \ [That elegant end drops were falling large and frequent. individual ventured no remark whatever.} and then, with a perfectly in1partial inflection,.. On the farther side of the stile, or pair asked,'· Would l serve you by attending you of steps leading into the woods, he recog- h ? \ orne. did not ans\ver directly. For place, she was disgusted and the exhibition of her admired nized a young lady and gentlen1an apparent-. Miss C-- ly in distress. The lady seemed to be in com- mand, with her escort hanging heavily upon her arm 1n the weakest n1anner conceivable. Duncan recognized the dependent as a fragile under-classman with a soft,voice and laven- der kids, \vhose effeminate attentions were received by his present cornpanion and her • set as hig-hly agreeable. The principal per- son ot the couple he also knew by name, as be did n1ost of the c1ty people, not through curiosity, but by reason of his acute observa- tion and quick inference. She had a reputation of being the brightest girl in the city, rather pretty, or, at least, in- teresting. Black eyes, large enough in the pupil not to look wicked, except to a hasty observer, but on a full glance soft and good. Nevertheless, she entertained considerable in the first ashamed at friend· s feeble spirit-- his era ven submission. to an abler tnan, mortified, also, at her O\Vn ridiculous position, and exasperated by this. plebeian's air of superiority to both of them .. Accordingly when he spoke so coolly and im- peratively, she was vexed beyond patience .. vVhat should she do? Her parents would be alarn1ed at her absence; there was no one els.e to accompany her; she did not dare ask him to carry a note, and after all he had not been discourteous. She saw that the tormen- tor followed her thoughts, and vvas mastered to thank him and accept. When he returned, shortly, he found her prepared to encounter the wet, and explain- ing sitnply ''that Mr. Softcloes' friends seemed

THE CONCORDIENSJS. 49 tlot to desire his further assistance,\ at once · n1ade ready to go. Miss C never thought. ot conversation. He, however, began to talk, grave-ly at first, though not unkindly, put watching the effect upon his listener, who appreciated every point ot refining, grew in- terested and broached some of his most ear- nest thoughts. This kind ot eloquence \vas . nevv to her. Such life purposes as he advo- cated had never occurred to he-r, except as visionary ideas to excite en1otion by their beauty. The activity of his n1ind, no\v that he was aroused, dazzled hers. He was too quick for her even to steadily follow. On ar- riving at her residence her own n1ind \vas I I stimulated as never before. I ., Will you not call, lYI r.-1Ylr. Duncan?\ she finished, although he had not given his natne. \Thank you; \Vith pleasure. Good even- ing.\ \Vhile saying this, each looking straight at the other on separating, he srniled for the first titne-a broad and comprehensive sn1ile. Miss C turned and ran in utterly discon- certed. Beginniqg then she learned that there \vere better things in a man than convention- al style, inherited hpride, or n1a\vkish senti- ment ; and he, that a person n1ight be sensi- ble and true, even it she had been taught nonsense about \vealth and blue-blood. Softcloes has never been mentioned. T0 OUTAVIA. Backward; turn backward, 0 maiden once fair, 'Vhen beauty. was princely and sweet; Thy sudden surprise, the roqe in thy hair, My mem'ry will love to repeat. A comeliness set in thy graces Still tuffi.es this bosom of mine; Where the light of two loving faces Seems yearning for something divine. CHORUS:-. There;s a love that's unspoken, unspoken, Where remembrance will linger for aye, .. O'er the spell of fond youth that is broken, And the fragments of hope flown away. Is there ever a strain drifting sadly, Or dreams o'er thy slumberous rest, Or a face whose remembrance is gladly Made welcome in thy maiden breast? \\Vherever 1 wander at twilight, In shactes so familiar to me, Looks down thro' the purple of sky light,. And smiles the fair vision of thee. GHO. How oft have we n1et by streamlet o'er-grown 'iVith asters and ferns blooming wild, Our favorite spot. the moss-covered stone, \Vhere hours so sweetly beguiled: How swift I recall the red flushes, While pressing thy lily white hand, Thy beauty all sprinkled with blushes, Obeying love's silent cm:nmand. Cno. Backward ! turn backward and gaze on our youth ! Where are those fond pleasures to-day ? Thy heart has grown cold, thy beauty and truth .Are clad in the garments of gray. 0, vvhere the fair prospect that lifted Our eyes to be lovers so true ? Alas ! they have vanished and drifted· \Vith years of regretful adwu. BY E.-'82. EDITORIAL ------------- . -· - - -·· VVILL not those of our readers \V ho have not yet paid their yearly subscriptions do so at their earliest convenience? They have an ex- cellent opportunity to oblige us, for \Ve need the n1oney. Bovs, give your paper a liberal support. \Vh1le 111any of you have acted generously to\vard it, others have been disinclined to i aclyance it in any degree \vhatever. VVithout your hearty co-operation it cannot prosper. y· ou have started the paper, and ha ye hon- ored us by choosing us as its Editors. In re- I turn \Ve have labored to n1ake it \vorthy of I your approval. See that by purchasing the pa- per you perforn1 your part. Do not think that this is done· \V hen you have taken a single. copy, but take as many more as your means. vvill permit. If each of you would take- three copies, the financial success of the paper would be assured. It may surprise· son1e of you, to learn that in some issues. the:

I' i:. I ' I• ' :. ! so THE CONCORD!ENSIS. number of copies sold was to the students WHAT is the matter with the Chapel fur- as two to t !tree. No College publication of naoe ? It is hardly to be expected that we equal size in the country, whatever the com- can maintain a very devotional frame when parative quality, is sold at so low a price as the temperature is nearly down to that point the CoNCORDIENSIS. It is true we do not when one's breath congeals. At Butler the offer I4XI 8 chromos, stem-winding oroide Seniors form themselves into relays, and in watches, or brass-mounted revolvers as in- irregular order march to the register. But ducements to subscribe, for we think that the little comfort does that give. Even the Doc- welfare of your paper is a sufficiently strong ·. tor has to pace back and forward to keep inducement. his blood in circulation. This state of things ---- CHRISTMAS holidays were passed quietly, by the few men \vho remained in the colleges, and without much incident by those who re- turned home. .l\. great many were delayed several days by the storms; one Senior go- ing to South Carolina was ship,vrecked. New Year's Day was observed by n1ost of the students in town, although not as many calls vvere made as usual. Everybody ap- pears to be back safely, with apparent sub- mission to, practically, a six 1nonths' grind. This is, however, less noticeable in the Sen- ior's face, as he looks une:xpectantl y through the spout of the mill into the receptacle of so much culture, to wit, the unheeding world. enabled him to give a touching illustration of the Icelandish idea of Hades. But a cnmfortable room is to be desired above much rhetoric. Weare glad the next Senior class have the promise of better times. If Dr. Potter erects a recitation-room in the rear of his house,it will, without doubt, be a pleasant and comfortable one. We would altnost take him at his word and remain another year,that we might help him christen it. It should be added that some of the other recitation rooms have been very cold at times during the past few weeks, thus en- dangering the good health of those who have to remain in them. Unimpaired lungs and throat are safe things to own in these parts, and ought not to be subjected to disease through carelessness in the heating of the rooms. This matter can eas1ly be remedied THE musical interests of Union have been sadly neg-lected this year. There are a good many fine singers in College, but no one seems to be willing to take the lead. The Freshmen have made a·slight beginning, but are fast falling into the general quiet that has so thoroughly taken possession of the whole College. The College Quartette, at least, ought not to be given up; if however there is such a thing in existence very few are a ware of the fact, and still fewer know who compose it. There always has been great difficulty in keeping up a large Musi- cal Association, but we think a double or even a triple quartette could be found who would be willing to practice certa1nl y once a week, and thus keep up some interest by a little stricter attention. THE attempt to raise money for the use of the Nine during the approaching season has already received a hearty response from a good share of the students in the way ot liberal subscriptions. We have every reason to expect that muc~ n1ore will be raised in this way. The outlook is encouraging. Two entertainments \vill soon be given, although we are not yet able to make an announce- meut. \ But we trust the Nine will not forget to perform tlieir part. To keep up the interest already begun and render it more enthusiastic they must show in this line.

I '!- t b. 0 THE ('ONCORDIENSIS. 51 themselves deserving of confidence and sup- port. _ Thorough, systematic work in the gymna- sium should begin at once. Contributors have a right to expect it of. you. And it is absolutely essential to,success. Your record of last Fall was good, but you cannot afford to rest on your laurels. ·rhere are stronger foes to be met next season and you must train to be able to cope with them. Agility, hardened muscle, and powers of en- durance are what you must gain ere the win- ter's snows have melted from the campus. The omens were never more auspicious :and we believe that if every opportunity be improved we shall have reason at the end of the coming season to be proud of the tnen who played under the colors of Union. Work :and win. composition prevent this charitable ex- planation. It is truly sad to contemplate the authoresses and their constituents harboring eternal resentment to\vards gentlemen so kindly disposed as our students. Moderation at least ought to have restrained them fron1 personal attack, but we actually find several individuals addressed by name, In an offen~ sive manner. We do not ourselves resort to this tnethod of warfare, and cannot permit it to our correspondents. The above remarks are of course not addressed to the ladies in general, as, we are a \Vare, only a portion have felt aggrieved in the matter. LAST month an article appeared under the head of con1munications, in which the prominent position of Latin and Greek, in the curriculum of the college was spoken of. i-\ few words in regard to the Eng- REQUIESCAT IN PACE. lish Department tnay not be amiss. It It gives us pleasure to afford vent, in is with1n a very few years, in fact within a another column, to certain feminine feelings year or two, that Union can be said to have said to have been excited by a few verses in had a good practical English course worthy a previous CONCORDIENSIS. We were pre- the name. The introduction of the study of ·pared to publish any reply, not personal, the \Elements of the English language,\ in however keenly it cqt those it ans\vered, and the first terrn Junior has done much to help therefore can have no hesitation in printing the student in his course. The fe\v scattered the present article. · To the gay deceiver, and disconnected thoughts he may have had who was heartlessly bidding his sweet-heart on the suoject, have been by this means ·farewell, the sprightly damsel is now repre- reduced to order. The exac,t position of the ·sented as retorting that he needn't trouble English language in the sisterhood of lan- ,himself, as she was all the while laughing in guages is made plain to him, and a proper her sleeve. The ladies had a right to defend introduction made to the study of English themselves, and they do it with considerable literature later on in the course. In order ·success. It is a pity, however, that the care- that the older forms of the language may be less badinage of the deserter could not be the better impressed upon the mind, the met by like indifference on the part of the study of Chaucer has been taken up, in con- ·deserted. Both the interest and effect of · nection with it. The rules of declension and -their sarcasm are lost by the animus they conjugation are first learned and then ap- betray. ()n witnessing this, we begin to sus- plied. The good earnest work which the pect that somebody does feel jilted. We students have given to these studies, prove --would prefer to think this merely the ex- not only the fact that they are thoroughly pression of hasty chagrin, but two months' appreciated, but that a stimulus has been deliberation and the obvious marks of labored given to research among old English writers.

' f 'I I . . . '. '\ 52 THE CONCORDIENSJS. ' The method of teaching adopted by Prof. .· a ere w, boats for practice, and a good course . .A.lexander, upon his assuming the cha1r two • What n1ore is needed, but-money? \Ve years ago, has become very popular. Work know enough of the generosity of our Alum- done before this \vas sin1ply drudgery. Now •.· ni and friends to feel certain that if we fur- it has becon1e a pleasure. \Vhen the happy . nish the requisites in other respects the funds day con1es \vhen the students shall have the will be forthcon1ing. benefit of a good library in \V hich \Vriters of \V hat is needed is a well established A th-- fiction, as \vell as \vriters of history, shall he letic Association, and a start has been made represented, and a more comfortable reading in this direction by the ball nine. Now let rootn furnished, no college in the country the work be con1pleted by consolidating all will be able to turn out n1ore cultured n1.en in one association. in this departn1en t than Union. If there is any interest felt in this matter let some one take the lead by calling a meet- SINCE the question oi an Inter-Collegiate Boat Race has been agitated and so nearly settled, it is quite necessary that Union, if ~he intends to enter at all, should give the subject son1e consideration. The Passaic, Eureka and Triton Boat Clubs of Ne,vark have offered three cups as perpet- ual challenge prizes in college races, and the question of w·hat races and the tirne of them are to be settled by the various colleges them- selves. It is a fact, and one that is easily proved, that atnong the considerations which influ- ence a n1an in selecting a college, one of the most pron1inent at the present day, is its rank in athletic sports. There are instances enough ot this conditiqn of affairs in the sud- den rise in the public approbation of colleges which \vere once lo\v do\vn in the scale, but by son1e fortunate boat race or \vell played game of ball \vere suddenly brought into no- tice, \Vh1ch notice \vas in1n1ediately follo,ved by a large class of incoming Freshrnen. There are many colleges \vhich have 1nuch poorer opportunities for practice, fevYer numbers. and a less enthusiastic .-\ lurnni than Union, yet they are no\v more eager in this matter than we. There is no reason why Union should not be represented in these races. We have a good gymnasium and proper appliances for training a man who is competent to coach ing of all interested, when the subject can be discussed, and the questions asked by Mr ~ Garfield can be answered. 'Ve advance as our hun1ble opinion that it a cre\v were sent to the regatta next Summer the Faculty, College and students \vould be benefitted in no small degree, providing, of course, a respectable show were made. THE students who had been intending to work in the Chemical Laboratory this term \Vere greeted at its beginning by a notice fron1 the Finance Committee, n1aking it nec- essary to deposit, at tht lowest, (that is for t\VO hpurs a day or less,) t \venty dollars cash in advance, ten for tuition, ten for chemica1sr etc. ..A.s far as the ordinary student is con .. cerned they tnight as \vell have locked the Laboratory up. Not but that it is a very reasonable fee for the ad vantages offered, but in 8ddition to the high rate of tuition already charged, and ccnning \Vithout pre- vious announcetnent, it falls heavily upon some \vho t)ught to have received the bene- fits of our excellent chemical department. It is no\v nearly deserted. The expenses incurred to maintain it profit four or five men, and the College gains perhaps fifty dollars a term. vV e suggest that this is ex- pensive economy· The tuition-fee at Union is with one or two exceptions the highest in the country. This fact may partially explain

THE C'ONCORDIENSIS. 53 the falhng-off in this year's number of Fresh- men. As a point of law we doubt whether this ne\lv charge could be collected if pay- ment were resisted. In the publis~J.ed cata- logues which for1n a part of the contract be- tween student and College, it is announced that \ Under-graduates are also pern1itted to attend the daily two-hour course of experi- mental t~hen1istry at the Laboratory; in con- nection with which there is an extra charge for the material, etc., used.\ T'he last clause · evidently implies that none shall be made for tuition and so 1t has been understood. 1'his promise .has -been g;i ven in successive catalogues, including the last. lT is true. 1 he Seniors have actually been allo\ved to select two of their studies for the tern1 at their option. 1'he specialist tna y take practical work in the Chemical or Ph ys- icallaboratory ; in Ornithology, Conchology or other departments ot Natural History. T'he would-be clergy tnan rna y take Hebrew ; the classical student, n1odern languages; the scient,ific student, Latin or Greek; and the lazy n1an, lectures in Technology, Analytical Chemistry, &c. 1' hat all this will be bene- ficial to good students w b.o are bent on con- scientious vvork, cannot be doubted. T'hat it will be injurious to indifferent students cannot be-doubted. vVhether the systen1 be a good or bad one, taken all around, \Ve will discuss when we shall have seen more of its workings. ------~ ---- ---- ---- --~ --- ---- -~-- -- --- --- - - ~ - ------- . -~-------- --. --- -- ---- COf\.RESPONDENCE. Editors oj~ '~ 7/ze Goncordicnsis \ : Your touching lines in the Novetnber CoN- CORDIENSIS awoke in us an earnest desire to make a response, even at the risk of its being called a paltry imitation ; but it is well known that won1en never originate anything, and if they could it would be unbecoming in them to strike out a path for thetnselves. H/e ~--- -- ---------------. ---------- ·-- --- __________ ... are content to walk tamely in the track you have beaten. Please accept the enclosed as our Ne\v Year's Greeting. CHEHRY AND :MERRY. JUAN FERNANDEZ, January, 1~79. ANSWER TO 11 LINES OF CONDOLENt:E TO COL- LEGE \VIDO Wt3.\ Y e gentle boys ! \Ve, \maidP.ns sweet ! \ \ Standing where t:wo rivers meet;\ Yours of inexperience, trust, • 0'urs of infinite disgust. Yours a reck'ning out of knowledge, Save by would-be swells in College, Dcen1ing you had drained the draught Of sweetness, when we only laughed. For ye youths dead beat, ah! beat, Ere we part no more to meet, Ours is the pleasant task, ·~ Who was taken in ? \ to ask. Now has come the trial day, Wert you only all in play ? Tho' you'd fain have been so mean, Thank us that you llave not been. We were not so in noecn t, And we never 8hall repent Laughing at you in our sleevct:i, While you poured your wine in sieves. Chide us not with ·waxing cold, Our contempt has warmth untold; For all heads as soft as n1usl1, Full of self-conceit and gush . Let this lesson be instilled; Tho' you thought our hearts were thrilled,. We ne'er danced to your sweet tunes, We know the worth of bra~sy .~poons. Mr. Editor: vV e \Vish to call the attention of the Facul- ty to the system o[ rnarking introduced by the present instructor in rnilitary tactjcs, and particularly to the custom of n1arking a stu- dent for the dress \\·hicb he \Vears \V hile at drill. \Seven\ is the maxirnun1 mark which a student rna y obtain by ordinary means, viz : By excellence and improvement in drill, by deportment, etc. If, ho\vever, he provides himself vvith a full military uniform the pos- sible degree of attainn1ent is raised to \ ten.t1-

' . 54 THE CONCORDIENSIS. This would be but a stnaU rnatter did it not' -Before a meeting of the Albany Insti ... effect the general standing oi a student while · tute, held Dec. I Ith, Mr. Alexander Duan~ at college. As it is, however, the injustice a post-graduate of '78, read a paper on the of the plan is at once apparent. Two stu- \Scientific Life and \Vork of V. Regnault.\ dents are running neck and neck in the race -The study of German is fast corrupting for class honors. One is so situated as to be the boys. Men who formerly wore blue rib- able to provide himself with a uniform. The bons, now go down and call for \zwei lager\ ·other is not so fortunate and must, therefore, in order to attain proficiency in pronuncia- take a second or third place in his class, tion. ·,v bile his real work entitles him to the first , -Some bod y-vvas it a Freshman?-· no; place. We trust that a mere mention of this candor compels us to say that it was a Soph- to the Faculty will be sufficient so that the ! omore-said that the classical name _for \ci:- rauk of a student may no longer depend up-. cer\ was\ pea-nut.\ Now you see the effect on his clothes. '8 I. · of fairs. -Axion1 No. 1 : If you 'vant to finq th(f LOCAL. •, man who bad the hardest tin1e while a fresh- man, and was probably the greenest of the -Freshman A. is No. 52 in ranks. green> pick out him who considers and call~ -How 'vou ld it do to sing the Terrace : everyone \ freshtnan '' but hims~lf. Song nO\V? -A military gentleman wifhing to sig~ -What ot the Senate and House of Rep-. himself \ A battle-scarred veteran,\ ,Vrote 1 resentatives? \A battle-scared veteran;\ but' not being sat- -A new pump graces the back yard of: isfied with that he changed it to ''bottle-scarred South College. veteran.\ Which is be-the better? -The Sophomores are on the war-path. . -Drs. C. F. Rich & Son, dentists, of Sara- Quake, Freshmen, quake. toga, have recently opened an office in this -The Freshman's soliloquy-\ More fair, city and desire the students' patronage. Give less money, more flunks!\ them a call. From what we know of them -For one study the Sophomore Classicals we can assure good work. See advertise- have a choice between Calculus and French. ment. --Washington's birthday comes on Satur- -Some excellent music is rendered each day this year, and the hoys, one and all, say Sunday at the First Presbyterian Church by \darn it.\ a large choir cOnsisting mainly of college -The Freshmen have all returned with students under the efficient leadership of Art tbe gloomy prospect of being\ bored-on\ tor Professor Wells, and the accomplished or- another tern1. ganist, hi.s wife. -Prof. Perkins' lectures in Technology -Our library has received an addition in are of much practical interest and well worth the shape of hand editions or working bearing. Free to all. copies of English classics. This supplies a -Coasting is all the rage just now, and want long felt, and we hope before long to the practical question is, how to hold her on see the deficiencies in some of the other de- and guide the sled at the same time. partments as tully remedied. -The Freshman Glee Club progresses -The regular day of prayer for colleges finely. The afternoon on which they meet is Thursday, January 30th. We do not know is observed as a legal holiday by all who live the proposed arrangements, but we under- within a mile of their rendezvous. stand that the usual exercises of a sermon in,

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 55 -~----------~---------------------- . Chapel arid other appropriate meetings \vill to accept a challenge fro1n any college club be held, and that there \viU .be a general in the United States. Six moves on each ·''bolt.\ side have been n1ade in the garne \Vith Cor- -The Gazette is an enterprisin_g morning nell. paper of this city, dating its existence fro-m -A drunken lawyer in the vicinity \vhiLe the first day of the New Y~ ear. lt has more on his \vay to church was observed by the life than either of the evening papers and minister, \vho said to him, \ Sir, I \vill bear -shows its good sense In copying the article witness against you at the day of judgment.\ from THE CoNCORDIENSIS on the '' Schenec- The lawyer, shaking his head vvith drunken tady 'Cop'.\ gravity, replied, \I have practiced twenty- --The class feeling between the Juniors five years at the bar, and have ail ways found .and Freshrnen is harmonious in the extreme. - the greatest rascal the first to turn State's At least a representative of each class so far evidence.\ agreed _as to ask the same lady to go skating -Just now the ·'poetry of motion\ on the other evening-and then she didn't go. skates is the desirable thing. If you are ~o Maybe she didn't care to skate. What do fortunate as to have a lady friend who skates you think, boys ? -slightly-and are not yourself a ·perfect ·-Mr. F. J. Ballart, Tutor o ± Trigc::.ome- tyro on ice, what bliss may be yours! We try and Assistant Instructor ~n the Che:nical enjoy your graceful antics from the bridge, Laboratory, will sail for Europe in a fe\v . but have no desire to rival either your skill days. He will go to Germany, where he . or 1avor 1n the fair one's eyes. The ice is intends to spend a year or so in a University, ~ too cold and hard this season. And besides, _giving his attention chiefly to the study of ; not properly cushioned. Chemistry and the European languages. · -There was a festival at a down-town -Attention is called to the advertisement- chapel the other evening. The fortunate . 0 f the Y. M. C. A. Coffee Roorns in this, holder of a ticket received in addition to a number. These rooms have been tastefully ; nice little supper a bag of candy. ·And no'~ fitted up and one may be always sure of; one or two of the boys want to know where -courteous treatn1ent. Son1e changes have : t~at candY was made. They vveren't very been made in the bill of fare; and alt.ogether, Sick, not so but that they recovered after a it is as good a place for a meal or lunch as day or two; but they say that candy was the this city or any other affords. most energetic S\veetness that ever encount- -A student returninG\ to his hash-house ered therrL They'll take the article in an- t:> :after a considerable absence said to his land- other form next time. lady that he felt \like the 'prodigal son'.\ -The following are the essays announced A lean and haggard Senior sat over the way. for this term: Senior class, ''The effects of A new light glean1ed in his eye at the sound classical studies upon the several mei?tal fac- -of the \vord \prodigal\ and bending for- ulties;\ Junior class, \Characteristics of ward with a wild and eager look he exclaim- Chaucer's poetry ; \ Sophotnore class, \Ef- ·ed, \Are we, then, to have the' fatted calf'?\ fects of a successful war on the conquering -The Union College Chess Club has been nation.\ The subjects chosen for the Senior organized with the following officers ; Presi- and Junior classes are intended as a kind of .dent, W. W. Childs, '79; Treasurer, David review of the work accomplished by those Spragu~, '79; Secretary, E. B. Waller, '81. classes last term. The Sophomores' subject The President informs us that they are ready willltardly cotne under the satne head.

THE CONCORDIENSJS. . ... ------ ------ -----------------. ----- - -------------------· ------ -- --- ------- --- ---- ---. --- . -The scene was in the dining pavilion at students all ready for the promised treat.. The New Capitol l{eception, <tt Albany. Ably seconded by his wife and daughter,. 'Twas crowded, and the ordinary rules of the Professor with his beautitu 1 pictures and etiquette were laid under the table. A. per- interesting conversation concerning the ob- son got what he ordered about once in four . jects and places represented so completely times (close calculation). \Bring cltar!otte fascinated his hearers that before they were russe for four,'' said n1odest Senior No. I to· aware of the fact, the en tire evening \Vas. waiter. \Bring clzar!ottc russe for four,\ said gone. 'fhe Professor extended his hospitali- Senior No. z to waiter No. 2. \Bring c/zar- ty btill further by offering his guests refresh- lotte russt for four,\ cr1t>d Senior No. I to n1ents, and after sotne little time spent in do- waiter No. 3· With astonishing promptness ing justice to the treat and in conversation, clzar!otte russe for f'ze'c!z,e was brought on to the boys took leave of their host with 1nany the intense delight of the Seniors and the thanks for his kindness, and each one went merriment of the syn1pathizing folks around. a\vay fired with the desire of one day seeing· -Any institution i11 College which is do- the marvels of which they had received an ing good, thorough \vork in the \vay of in- insight. tellectual culture, deserves, at least, the re- AN<)THER MY Sl'ERY. spect of every student. Such an institution is the Adelphic Society. l ts success last term \Vas marked. Largely attended n1eet- ings were held nearly every week and the debating was, \vithout doubt, the ablest of many years. l\he rnetnbership \vas largely increased. 1'he Hall \vas handsornely cur- tained, at considerable expense, and yet the Society begins the tern1 vvith about $30.00 in the treasury. .A. t the regular rn eeting, Jan. · 18th, the following officers were elected for· the terrn : J . ..r\. l{emp, President; F. P. S. Crane, Vice-President; .A.. H. Dougherty, Treasurer; J. P. Davis, Secretary; J no. Ick- Ier, Engrossing Clerk ; E. P. White, Ad vo- cate; J. F. Glover, Curator. At the last meeting- of the ~ociety last tern1~ l\'Ir. L. \V. Beattie vvas elected Valedictorian for the an- niversary in June. -()nc of thn~c cvf'nts \Yh1ch ahvays result in the strengthening oi the existing ties be- tween teacher and pupil occurred on the evening of Dec. I 8, I 878. Prof. \V ells, '\ ho with his fan1ily, has lately returned from abroad, had kindly invited the Scientific J un- iors to his house to vie\v the many pictures and rarities gathered in his travels, and the appointed hour found the expectant German Con1tnon report gives us a case for discus- sion before \vhich interest in the Mollie Fancher case pales. .A. former tnem ber of the present Junior class see1ns to be afflicted vvith some cornplaint akin to hysteria. \Vhile \vith us, he _ vvas considered by son1e a n1onornaniac, (on the subject nt purloined street-lamp lanterns,) by others a klepton1ani_, ac, and by those '\. ho knew him best, a fair 'alf-and-'alf n1ixture of an untruthful thief and a tnultimaniac. l-:le passed through here during the last summer yacation, taking in the tniddle section oi North College on his- route. l-Ie seems to have had an unusually strong fit at the time, as he secured an outfit frorn the different rooms in the section. The case is a peculiar one, and 'v hen it comes to· be understood, vve hope i\ro1n it to furnish additional data tending to 1)rove the unrelia- bility of human testimony in the pursuance· of scientific investigation. According to· letters to his creditors, this young man and his father have both been numbered with those \ gone before \ for some time, an4 yet both are reported to be seen occasionally now- a-days. Some seem to thjnk that there is an apparent relation between this case, and the

THE ()ONCORDIENSIS. 57 ~---- --- --- Union street ghost: The ghost is under producing one such commotion~ but this: ~bservation, and if it is found to steal a street- year having furmed the accustomed New lamp lantern or lie unnecessarily ,we shall be Year's Resolutions \Ve are prepared to start convinced that this is the spirit oi the young on a firm basis, intending to blame or com-- man under consideration. He turned up on mend as appears to us right and resolved to· an excursion to Brighton Beach, some time · expect and su bn1it to fair criticisms on our after his creditors knew (tron1 letters) that ·· own sheet. be was deceased. Hi$ apparition at that ---- ~-\mong our new Exchanges is the Btttes- tim~e reported it_self as about to set nut for · Student, the Decem.ber number of wlich Europe, and acquaintances of the deceased : has just reached us. The article on \Les in this country were overjoyed, but it turned Miserables\ ·was evidently written by an 1tp again in the northern part of this State a ardent admirer of Victor Hugo and at such few days ago, with the news that it, together his enthusiasm n1ay be pardoned; but the with the fleshly· body it had infested, had article itself, though very good as a con- been a member of '78 in this college. densed synopsis of the story, would not rank We have this only as hearsay, but the faulty very high as a review of the \VOrk in its architecture of the lie connects the appari- broadest sense. .A.gain, one might find fault tion, beyond doubt, with the '8o ma11 herein- with his estimate of Hugo as a novelist, but before mentioned. ~A. summary of this case a question like that could scarcely be de- is difficult from the fact that it is not suscep- cided here. However, if left to the mass of tible of direct and continued investigation. careful readers, Hugo would not be ranked There are nojacls to be had, since the man as the equal of Scott. We notice a well 1n life scrupulously avoided the truth and his written article relating experiences in the disetnbodied spirit, ineligible to corporeal White Mountains, which also possesses, the punishtnent, can hardly be expected to cir- n1erit of being interesting, though written culate reliable information. lndeed, we are on a n1uch-worn subject. The Editorials even incredulous of the observations of others are all good, though one of them advances on this point since this spirit would doubt- some very strange theories in regard to the less be so fond of deception as to de,cei ve any tnatter of one or more studies at a time. investigator. I'his is another mystery which Another treats very sensibly the matter of with the Stewart grave-robbery, the bath tub reading in colleges, and a third engages horror and the the Mollie Fancher case vve itself in the \vorn discussion of Commence- leave time to decipher. n1ent Orations. The Locals are well sus- ..... . EXCHANGES. -------- ------ -The January issues of our Exchanges are slowly pouring in and with their appear- ance the duties of the Exchange Editor com- mence, and these same duties are by no means to be overlooked. l-Ie it is, who is to wield the pen of criticism and by his fortunate or unfortunate reviews ot his contemporaries submit to their words of praise or outbursts of indignation. Last year we succeeded in tained and the issue as a wht)le 1s commenda- ble. -Another new arrtval is the Univt'rsz'ty Press, fron1 Madison, Wisconsin. We hope that this issue may be exceptionally poor, for poor it is. Commencing with a dry his- tory of the University, it passes to the death of Prof. Carpenter, vvho, though an able man is overvv helmed with eulogies of all kinds and fron1 all-directions. The Editorials are lacking in both quantity and quality, while the Locals are so interspersed with adver-

.· ' '' ss THE C01VCORDIENSIS. ---~ ---·--~------------------ tisen1ents that it \vould be difficult to draw the line between them. The Exchange De- partment is lacking. -The Uni··uersity Qu.arte·r!y i~ good, being brimful of literary tnerit, \vhile its duties as :a reporter of college ne \VS are carefully , looked after. An article upon the pr-Isons in Eng land and their abuses, traces the ·career of John Ho\vard in his endeavours to alleviate the sufferings of the prisoners and to put the necessary restrictions upon the· power of their jailers. It was in r 780 that Burke spoke of him thus: \ He has visited all Europe, not to survey the sumptuousness of palaces. or the stateliness of temples ; not to n1ake accurate measurements of the re- n1ains of ancient grandeur; not to fo.rm a scale of the curiosity ot modern art; not to collate medals or collect n1anuscrip ts ; but to dive into the depths of dun:geons; to survey the mansions of sorrow and pain; to plunge into the infections of hospitals ; to take the gauge and dimensions of n1isery, depr~ssion, and conten1pt; to ren1ember the forgotten, to attend to the neglected, to visit the forsaken and to co1npare and collate the 9istrcsscs of all rnen in aU countries.\ This philosopher and philanthropist \vas stricken ~O\Vn by the infection iron1 which he \Va~ aiding Ins fe1lo,vs to escape and his loss \Vas mourned by all Europe. \ Punishn1ent as a Preventitivc of crirne,\ considers the subject in its broadest import. The au thor advances as his theory, that education is the only true ren1 edy for crin1e in place of the as yet fruit- less punishn1ent. The Editorials are \veil sustained, and treat of a variety of thernes. -Fron1 the Rocltesto\ Canzpus we gain the infortnation that the -vvhole length of the class of 'So is r6I feet, 5 inches, and the weight 4, I I 5 pounds; that of the whole nu tTl- her only six are addicted to the use of tobac- co. Is this to be considered as a compli- ment or a rebuff to that class 111 general? The issue also contains a prize oration \V hich is very good, and an account of an ancient ball game \vhich ranks well in the army of so-called poems, \vhich are just now flooding the College periodicals. Besides this the ·Cauzpus possesses the quality of having a well conducted Local departn1ent. --- 'vVe acknowledge the follovving: A1n- lzcrst Student, Advocate, Berkeleyan, 1--lalltilton Lit., Yale Record, Oberlin Review, Trinity Tablet, Univers£ty ftlagnzine, A rchartgel, Tripod, Clzroniclc, V£dette, Dickensonian, Tuftonzan, Universit)' QuaJ'terlJI, Packer Quarterly, Wzjl- iarns A tlzencettln, Roc/tester CaNzpus, Targunz, J]arbnoutlz, Vassar JV!iscellany, and others. PERSONAL. '27. Rev. Dr. Leonard Woods, a graduate oi Union College, class of I 827, and for rnan y years president of Bowdoin College, died Dec. 26, at the age of 72. '28. Hon. Ward Hunt, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, ~s sufferi1:g frorn a partial stroke of paralysis In \Vash1ngton. Although h1s recovery is not despaired of, he :\i\ 1 ill probably be com- peHed to :elinquish the duties of his office. He \Vas appointed to the position in r 872. I-Iis hon1e is in Utica, N. Y. '33. Another alun1nus of the College has died since our last issue- Dr. __,_L\lexander M. Vedder. He vvas born in Schenectady in I 814. I-I is father, Mr. Nicholas Vedder, as his natne indicates, 'vas of Dutch extrac- tion. He \Vas a much respected carpenter, and for n1any years \vas busied in making pat- terns for the N ott stoves, the first base-burn- ing stove in this country. (The principle had been kno\vn in Europe for some time.) He \iVOrkcd at this trade in the South Colo~1ade in that part no\v occupied by Prof. Perk1ns, at one time the general work-shop of the qollege, but afterwards fitted up for the residence of Prof. Alonzo Potter upon his marriage with the daughter of President Nott. Dr. Vedder was one of a fan1ily of ten, three of whnn1 graduated frotn this college, and \vere, like hin1self, \Yell kno\vn physicians l--Ie attended school here jn Schenectady, and used to relate that his father, \vis hi no- hitn to have n1ore tban ordinary ad vantages, was

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 59 --·----------------··-··-- -- ----------- ---· - co1npelled to send to Albany to purchase a • '6J. Benedict.-· In the matter of malfeas- geography and history, and that he \vas the ance in office preferred against the Super- .only scholar among zoo who studied these intendent of the Onondaga Salt Springs the .branches. . Governor has appointed l-ionorable Samuel He graduated in i 833, no doubt anvJng the T. Benedict, of Schenectady, a commissioner fi.r.st in the class, as \Ve find the Latin Saluta- 'to take testimony in the examination of the tory was awarded to him. -vvitnesses as to the truth of the charges. The After graduation; his means being li.n1ited, . appointment of :l\1r. Benedict is an eminently fit one and will be received as an evidence he taught school for son1e titne, at first in Schenectady and subsepuently as principal that the investigation \viU be conducted \vith .of the A caden 1 y at Hudson, N. y. After- . perfect fairness and with an intent solei y to wards he went to Philadelphia and attended ascertain the truth of the charges.-Albany the lectures on n1edicine at the University Argus . . of Pennsylvania, at that tin1e by far the most · '76. E. E. Kreigsman has been admitted to .celebrated n1edical school in the country. the bar. His abilities assure his success in \Vhile there his talents attracted the atten- his chosen profession. tion of Dr. Rush and Dr. Duglinson, teachers '77. H. T. Chadsey spent the holidays at in the school, and through their exertion he his home in this city. He is studying at the vvas appointed resident physician at the Auburn Theological Seminary. He speaks Blackly H·ospital. In this position he gave . highly of that institution. Success to you great satisfaction to the Board of Governors Horace. :and l\1 edical Staff who were loth to accept 'So. E. T. Tomlinson is rnarried and teach- his resignation \vhen presented. ing in Hungerford Institute, Adatns, N. Y. He graduated from the University in 1 839 '8o. E. L. Vincent is farming in Persia, and 1na!nhtahi~1ed a rr 1 ·1ost fr1 1 · endl y cohrresp 1 .ondd- N. Y. ence ~It IS teac 1ers as ong as t ey 1ve . He settled in Schenectady, and not long ======~-===~===:==:~==-=~=======-:=:======:::::::::...:...:._:_..:.=::==. .after\lvards \¥bile a salute was being fired on the fourth of July, very properly the cannon burst and \vounded one of the gunners. Dr. Vedder 'vas called in and successfully an1- putated the: n1an's a1:n1. T'his operation es- tablished h1s reputat1on as a careful, success- ful surgeon, \vhich years of experience made more eminent. In 1846 he \vas appointed Prof. of Anatotny and Physiology, -vv hich position he held untd his resignation in I 864. ~-I e served in n1an y of the elective offices in this city, at one tin1e having been Mayor. l-Ie \vas the first phy- sician in this country to \Vrite on the subject of Albuminuria and certain syrnpton1s of this disease vvere first noted by hir11 and \vere cop- ied by foreign periodicals. Many graduates of the college studied n1edicine under his direc- tion in his office and an1ong thetn \Ve find the name of Dr. Featherstonhaugh, at present l\1edical Director to the College. Though t\vice married, his second \vife ~urvi ving hin1, Dr. Vedder leaves no living .child. His interest in the College \vas n1ost .active. He never missed its Con1mencement exercises or the annualtneeting of the Phi. B. K., of which society he was an officer for many years. He died inN e\v York City, at the house of h1s brother, Dr. M. R. Vedder, ()11 the last Sunday of I 878, aged 65 years. EX TRANE A. --Cren1ation--\ We earn our living, \vhy not urn our dead ?\--E:c. -\Vhat \Vas Joan of Arc n1ade of? \1\tfaid of ()rleans,\ of course.-Tripocl. --\Do fish talk?\ Certai:.1ly, out in Colo- rado-Pike's Peale--Dickinson Liberal. -- \VVhat will you take asks a Prof. to a Junior. Class collapses.--E:c. for your horse?\ Junior ponders. --Prof. to Senior in n1etaph ysical recitation: \ 'fhen what is the use of such a sturt y as n1etaphysics ?\ Senit)r promptly: '\No use at all, sir.\--Ex. -'' N ovv ,\ says the Prof. in Psychology, \ take the class, Horse.\ '' We sold him to the Juniors last year,\ interrupted the tnan addressed . -A festive Junior \vho has been rash enough to elect geology, discuurses learnedly ot the ' 1 n1etaphoric\ rocks of the \Achian . d\ E per1o . - .. :r. ,j '' 'I ''·

6o THE CONCORDIENSJS. -Two Japanese girls a·re at Vassar. It is· four young-we ahnost said men-scoun- a beautiful and effecting sight to see the 1 drels. American girls teaching them to slide down ! -A Freshman is proved; knows every- the bannisters.-Ez. thing. A Sophomore has the wisdom of an --A Junior, building a fire in his stove, \vas owl, but like that sedate-looking bird keeps- heard to mutter; \ \Vhen I get to be a man, · still about it. A Junior knovvs so1nethi1tg, but I'm going to have fire p~laces in every roon1 is a little doubtful. A Senior knows noth- of my house.\--Ex. .ing.-Ca1npus. -·A Freshn1an being asked the nan1e of --It is said that the exchange editor is a Xenophon's \vite, replied, after considerable little out of his head and goes around atnong hesitation, that he beheved it was Anna Ba- the Freshmen with a shocking bad hat, in sis.--Clzz'cago Journal. w·hich is a printed legend, \ Please Ex- -Sophotnore fourth division Latin : \Tel- change.\ Perhaps there is method in his- ephum dives et lasci·va puella occupa'Z·it.\--''The tuadness.--Dart1noutlz. rich and lascivious young n1aiden grasped the -\Johnny/' said a sporting Third Ward telephone.'' Mr.--- is reseated.--Ez. father, ·' Johnny, \vhat have you got in your -Professor-'' What is a function?\ Jun- fist?\ ''Two pears,\ said johnny. \Good ior-\ Well, sir (deliberately), a fellow's mark, hand,\ said the absent-minded parent; '~take for instance, is,. l think, a function of his reci- the pot-.\ Then he blushed, and pofnting- tation, his behavior, and the caprice of the to a brass kettle,. he added, \to your lilother.n faculty. (Sensation.)-E.t:. --Ex. -\I don't care anything about your -\Show me the fas~ion plates ot an age/r lectures,'' ren1arked a Junior, speaking of a said Talmag-e, \a.nd I will tell you the type lecture course, \ but \vhen Helen Potter and of 1norals or immorals of that age or that her Blondes come, I would state that I am year.\ .A.ll right, Brother Talmage, we sug- going to take that show in.\-Ha1nilton Lit. gest the age of Adqtn and Eve. We haveR't -A Freshtnan, while extolling the merits the plates handy, but doubtless. you recollect of his hoarding house, exclaimed: \Wby them. the quality of the board has been well sus- --Teacher-George Gregory, rise andre- tained from the beginning. 1'he dinners have cite on the spur of the moment, a pleasant not varied a hair during the whole time.\ paragraph on an execution. George--The· -Senior to Prof.--'' All I know about the drop fell, and the horrifted spectators shu.d- Afghans is that they are a small tribe in the dered as the poor girl bounded in the ai;r; but central part of Africa!\ A n1inute later that investigation disclosed that she was a semin- Senior wished that he was a native Afghan, ary girl, while the drop was a gu n1-drop that and now he reads the newspapers.--Ez. had gone down the \Vrong way. -Autumn man get drunk? _.,...Hear this Freshman: Autumn mu1c kic-k? Autumn monkey tnarry? .Autumn maiden kiss? Aut11mn musician muzish? Ought'em ?-Ex. -One of the saddest and tnost disgraceful affairs that ever occurred at any college re- cently took place at Oberlin College result- ing in the expulsion of two young ladies and '' Who steals my purse steals trash; 'Twas mine, 'tis his, and has been slave to thousands- But he who filches from me one hour's sleep\- (By getting up in the morning at 5f o'clock, walking through the hall with heavy boots, Slamming every door he can :find, and prac- tising his vocal gymnastics by singing and shouting} ''Robs 1ne of that which not enriches him And makes 1ne poor indeed.\ \ N. B.-To all whom it may eoncern.\

I ' •· .. . THE COLVCORDIENSIS. 111 I _h Raising the \vind\ is now denominated more classically, \ Exsuscitating the financial · .JEolus.-E%. ---------- -- WOOD BROS. .SHIRTS MADE TO ORDER .ANIJ REA.DY;.MAIJE A LARGE LINE OF UNDERWEAR. ~ All the Latest Style Scarfs, Ties, Collars, Etc. 1 33 State Street, Sclzenectady. ~---------. --- ,GEORGE E. VINCENT, GENTS F\uRNISHING Goons, And Manufacturer of the ANCIENT CITY SHIRT, Myers' Block, SCI-IENECT ADY, N.Y. A. BROWN & SON, Upholsterers & Furniture MARUFAOTURERS; 154 State St., - Schenectady, N.Y. -- __...· GREENE & DUEL, DEALERS IN Temperance Dining Rooms ! . Coal and Wood, Office, 2:2 W aU St.. Yard, 23 Dock Street. BILL OF FARE: J. G. Greene. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Jas. Duell. ------------ - -- ~ - ~-~- .'Beefsteak, - 15 cts. Oyster Fry, 25 cts. Oysters~'=·~·, 15 cts. s . R . ·G R.- A.-- y ' ~t>f.k,.stea:k, 15 \ Saus~ge; w ;1.5 '' Pork & Bears, 6 .~ · -Mntton Chop 15 u ~q,m & &ggs, 15 cts. Sa.ndwic'H !:. 3\ B·o··o'· v __ · ·s· E'LL li,_R· .-e. s· T.!l' T'TO \XI'_\_V- R, 'Tea ·and Ooff'-ee, 3 cts. Otbe:r t'hi:ngs in proportion. 11.. .1..!.1 y 1 tl ¥ b Patronkred largely by-Students. SCHOOL, TEXT & SCIENTIFIC BOOKS 148 State St., Schenectady. THE LATEST. - FRAGRANT VANITY FAIR. . A NE.W CIGARETTE. _.'STRAIGHT\----Rare Old Virginia. \HALVES\-Rare Old Perique & Virginia. New .combinations of these· Fragrant Tobaccos, gotten up in honor of the PARIS AWARD. Each Cigarette bears cut of the Paris Medal and Brand, PARISIAN STYLE. Qur Tobaccos and Cigarettes ARE BETTER THAN EVER. :Are Unsurpassed for PURITY, DELICACY, EXCELLENCE. Special size Cigarettes,__ with any Name, Monogram, Crest or Design, -to order, at $s for soo. ::samples on receipt of postage stamp. W\Samples of our Asthmatic and Catarrh Cigarettes, each 25 cents, tby mail. Address \WM. S. ::K.IMBAL\I & CO ... Peerless Tobacco Works, Rochester, N.Y. .A Specialty. 42 -a;n:d 44 State St. Alb:anv N. Y. . YJ ' . . THOS. H. REEVES & CO., DEALERS IN Fancy and Staple Dry Goods, CARPETINGS, OIL CLOTHS, &c., Also, a large line of Cloths and Cassimeres. 137 State Street, ScHENECTADY, N.Y . WILSON DAVIS, foEF\.._CHANT TAI.LOR. I r 5 State St., ScHENECTADY, N. ·Y. At A, £ Lansing's New Store You will find a full line of TIN-WARE .AJ~fp~ STOVES. This is the only place 1n the city where you can get the Sun Range, and W estminsfer Stove and Clock. 251 State St., ScHENECTADY, N. Y 0 .. VAN SLYOK .. Wholesale and Retail Dealer in poAL 1 YJoon AND 55 Centre, and 7 Pine St., Schenectady.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. ----------------- ~ -~-~ ---~-------- SCHENECTADY LOCOl\fOTfVE WORJ(S. Continues to receive orders, and to furnish, \vith prompt!\less THE BEST AND LATEST IJV1PROVED GOAL OR WOOD BURNIRG LOCOMOTIVE ENGI~S AND C)THER RAILROAD MAcHINERY, TIRES, &c. And also to repair and rebuild locornotives. The above vvorks are located on the N.Y. C. R. R., near the center of the State, anrl possess superior facilities for forvvarding vvork to any part of the country. --CHAS. G . .hLLIS, \V ALT£R McOuEEN, ,.,., Prrsident. Vice-President. WALTER F. HlJI{C()MB ~ CO., Merchant Tailors • AN D I :\I P 0 l{ T E R S, I 5 NORTH PEARL STREET, ALBA~Y, N. y. Established r837. JOHN J\'IcARDLE, Proprietor. No. 6 'fa11zes ,S~trcct, ALBA NY, N. Y. Students spending the day in Albany will find this a convenient place to get meals. SULLIVAN'S O\rS1'ER BAY. 9 YSTEf\.S ~ f EFR,_ESHMENTS '' YANK \ SULLIVAN. Ellis Hlock, - Schenectady, N.Y. EDVl ARD ELLIS. JOHN SWIFT. Treasurer. Supert.\ntendent ~-- - ----~--- Buy l\a:axon!)s Best St.. Louis Made from Best White vVinter \Wheat retailed at Wholesale Price~ Old Co11~pctl~Y Lacl~aLVltna Coal. Guaranteed to be the best offered in this market, and fur- nished to farmers at Car Load Prices. Highest (Ja1:5h PTice.-; paid for Rye, Oo·rn, Oats and Buckwheat •. APPLY AT THE ELEVATOR. CARLEY HOUSE, State St., cor. Centre, ScHENECTADY, N.Y .. Class and Soc1ety Suppers a specialty. DEVENDORF & CO., Proprietors. WILLIAM STOOPS, MERCHANT TAILOR And dealer in Cloths, Cassimeres, Vestings, etc,, 107 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. PRINTED AT THE AMSTERDAM DEMOCRAT STEAM PRINTING HOUSE. - V< I ~ I il.a1 ·pu gt ;aiJ m til -,til fa ·w ·SC ·0 0 :9.